ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,09 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u10	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to start by saying that the institutions operate in a balanced manner in accordance with the rules governing them. But, if ever there were to be a deviation from these rules, the functioning of the institutions became unbalanced, even more so in an institution such as the Senate of the Republic which, together with the Chamber of Deputies, represents the summit of the democratic representation of this country. You see, Mr President, by applying Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure in your own way, you closed the general debate today and gave the floor to the representative of the Government, preventing anyone like me from speaking - but also my colleagues, Mr Malan, Mr Crimi and Mr Caliendo - from asking you to speak on what was happening. What happened today, Mr President? Before you even closed the general discussion, Senator Crimes made a request not to move on to the articles. You have allowed Senator Crimi to explain his request, allowing Senator Malan to speak on the matter in an explanation of vote: in other words, President, you have treated the request not to move to the articles as an incidental issue. When you closed the general discussion, giving the floor to the representative of the Government - and I quote that Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Government representative will be given the floor for the replies to the general discussion, not necessarily for the imposition of a predictable and anticipated vote of confidence - you did not take due account, as Mr Malan rightly said, of Rule 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, that whenever a incidental question arises, whether a preliminary or suspensive question, it is not possible to close the discussion. Consequently, from my personal point of view - but, I mean, those who like me know that they can be wrong and also know that, having no power, they cannot make the error prevail over the accuracy of the interpretation - in the event that you should not believe that the letter of Article 93, paragraph 2 is sufficient to solve the problem, I say to you - I think the Secretary-General remembers - that in the past, alas, there was an agreement that consolidated in a practice - and the practices in regulatory interpretation - that resolved issues absolutely similar to this. Senator Malan will surely remember this, because it was particularly vehement on that occasion, even if that vehementness was not considered appreciable from the disciplinary point of view. It was, in particular, a suspensive question that had been requested prior to the Government's imposition of the question of trust. On that occasion, President Marini solved the problem in the sense that the question of trust had to be voted on before the question of suspensiveness. Later, on the other hand, due to an agreement reached - I imagine at the Conference of the Leaders, but of which, if I recall correctly, knowledge was given here in this House - it was decided that the question of trust would be voted on later on to the other issues, had the same been proposed earlier. In the 15th legislature everything went this way. The issues other than the question of trust were first voted on, if they were raised earlier on to the question of trust. I cannot fail to recall that in his speech today, Senator Crimi specifically referred to the fact that he was proposing that the articles should not be examined before a vote of confidence could be put in place. This is tantamount to saying, following that practice, that we could not avoid voting on Senator Crimi's request, before the "more to practice" after the question of trust was raised. Mr President, since - alas - I am well aware of the legal Byzantineisms which, according to Manzoni, were typical of the right things, I would like to add that what cuts the bull's head is that you treated the issue raised by Senator Crimi exactly as an incidental issue, allowing illustrations and explanations of vote. At that point, Rule 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, which specifically required the vote on this question, could only prevail. I believe that my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is correct, but obviously, as I am not sure that I have the gift of truth within me, the prospect to the Presidency and to the House, but, as of now, Mr President, I am asking that the Rules of Procedure Committee be convened for a correct interpretation of Rules 93, 95, 96 and 99 of the Rules of Procedure. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, I repeat once again the request that I had the opportunity to make, I believe, about ten or fifteen days ago to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the correct interpretation of Rules 12, 65 and 66 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u13	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a request to the Presidency to make a statement and clarify the application of Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates exactly the time when it is requested not to proceed to the examination of the articles, i.e. after the replies of the Government and the rapporteur. We have tried three times to ask for the application of this article in the matter of trust. The first time we were told: I have now given the floor to the Government. The second time we asked for the floor in advance, even before the rapporteurs were given the floor, when the general debate was still open; there was a change of presidency, a new President arrived in his place, who said: I didn't know, he gave the floor to the government and the question of trust was raised. Today we have made a request for a written advance and, as is written in the Rules of Procedure, the debate has been opened, which provides for a general debate on the request not to move to the articles, with the option of speaking for ten minutes, to which a vote must be taken: this has not happened again. I would ask you, then, to clarify once and for all how we can achieve the non-transition of the articles. Cito Cicero, who said "inter arma enim silent leges," that is, "during the war, even the laws" are silent. So, if the laws here are silent, maybe we have to deduce that there is a war. I therefore ask you to make it clear, because, at the time when clarity is made about this, all our intemperances cease, because we have the certainty that the Rules of Procedure have been correctly applied. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u16	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in different tones from this morning's tones, which are more normal and suitable for this House. You have read Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure today: you have read it expressly. It is clear in this article that the closure of the general debate closes a historic moment in the debate, all that is the discussion of an issue in this House. The President closed the general discussion and then gave the floor to the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to reply. It is therefore two moments, and so far someone has argued, even in the previous mentioned by Mr Martelli, that these two moments were connected, that the general discussion was intended to be closed at the time of the conclusion of the replies of the rapporteur and the Government. Therefore, if confidence was sought in the Government's replies, the general discussion was not yet closed. But you have today confirmed what we thought, that the general debate is closed: one historic moment is closed and another one is opened. The question of not going to the articles is now being introduced, and we have also written it down since before we wanted to speak immediately after the general debate was closed, to request the provisions of Rule 96. That is why we believe that the request for incidental suspensive cannot fail to be dealt with earlier than a request that took place at a later historical moment. That is what Rule 99 says, Mr President. When you read it today, you confirmed even more what we thought, namely that these are two separate moments, while so far we have been told several times - at this point I am mistakenly saying - that the general discussion closes at the end of the replies. In fact, this is not the case at this point, because there is a time for the closure of the general debate. In any case, regardless of whether or not trust has been requested by the Government, we now reiterate the request that a proposal not to move to articles should be put to the vote - we repeat the request - before proceeding to trust. Of course, the failure to move to articles would now refer to the text on which the Government put its trust, on which I hope my colleagues in the Commission have been able to assess and I hope that all my colleagues have had it available and have been able to evaluate its contents. On that text I would like to ask for the non-transition to the examination of the articles, that is, the text proposed by the Government. However, I will reject the request made this morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u17	Rule 96 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states that 'for the conduct and discussion of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, the provisions of Article 95 shall be observed as applicable. The provisions of Rule 95 concern the presentation and examination of agendas, i.e. their illustration during the general discussion and the expression of the vote before the amendments are presented and, in any case, the fact that the vote on general agendas must be made first, if submitted. Between the illustration and the vote are the replies of the rapporteur and government. Article 95 (5) states that the voting of the agenda shall take place immediately after the speeches of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. Therefore, by treating this proposal as an agenda, Article 95 and paragraph 5 of that Article also apply. That is what the Presidency did, and rightly so, this morning. It is different from the case of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which were already voted on yesterday before the start of the general debate: the constitutional prejudices were voted on. The Chiti-Marini praise - I was not there and obviously I can only accept the previous experience, which is offered to me by both the offices and the other senators who were present - goes back to the 15th legislature and is a different issue, because it has consolidated the practice that the Government raises the question of trust after the vote of the preliminary question, if presented. On the other hand, the applicants have correctly described the issue as a non-transitional agenda and not as a preliminary ruling. Therefore, I do not exclude that a new praise is given to that of the 15th legislature, with a sort of commitment to put the question of trust after the vote on the agenda of not passing to the examination of the articles, which, moreover, correctly, cannot take place before, but only after the replies and then after the word to the Government. So it is a question of convening, as has been requested, the Council for the Rules of Procedure and of reconstructing, from the point of view of a new praise, after that Chiti-Marini of the 15th legislature, an understanding interpretation of the genre. MARTON (M5S). Next week we'll do another one! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Moreover, the Conference of Leaders can also establish this, without the need of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because this is essentially a political agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u20	I think I made myself clear, Senator Ferrara. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, it was very clear, even though I recall that the previous meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure was a praise of President Marini, after hearing Vice President Chiti, and that in that case a decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure had not been observed. In this case, I would like the Presidency, which I urge you to do so, to pay attention to a reservation contained in Article 96, according to which the provisions of Article 95 are observed, where applicable, and to the fact that, in any case, the non-transition to the examination of the articles is an incidental issue and, as such, has connotations that make it resemble the question of trust. You know that the question of trust overwhelms every other issue and has given us knowledge and science of it, the Government which, by resuming a precedent of President Fanfani, recently proposed it even if the general discussion had not ended. Therefore, in pursuit of these precedents there is no certainty and, as I have perhaps argued a little presumptuously at the Conference of the Leaders, it is up to the Presidency to assess the balance between Rules 93, 95 and 96 as a whole and Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure. Given that we are now at 4.30 p.m. and that in half an hour we would certainly have hesitated, with an extraordinary majority, the incidental question posed by Senator Crimes, a fair play between Parliament and Government, in the future, will probably prevent this House from seeing incidents such as those that have occurred this morning. PRESIDENT Thank you, Senator Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u23	Senator Crimes, we're in replica. CRIMI (M5S). If you'll allow me, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, the matter may be proposed to the Leaders and, clearly in the presence of the Government, we will be able to address it. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I make a premise that we are voting on a measure of epochal importance, and we do not say so, but the Government itself says so. Therefore, addressing this issue for this measure would perhaps not be so peregrine. Mr President, you make this comment on Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure and equate this request with the agenda, but already Rule 96 says that the vote on the non-transition to the Rules of Procedure must take place before the agenda, showing that the two are different, because the Rule distinguishes them. Therefore, first of all, this proposal must be voted on before the agenda. Secondly, Mr President, it is clear that Rule 95 refers to the Government's replies, which express an opinion on the agenda, so it is clear that the vote on the agenda must follow an opinion of the Government, as is the case with any other amendment. But this is a completely different case, which cannot be equated with an agenda in which the Government is asking for its opinion. Here we are asking the House about a suspensive issue and, as far as I know, correct me if I am wrong, about the suspensive issues or about the proposals not to move on to the examination of the articles, the opinion of the Government and the rapporteurs is not foreseen; I do not think that there are any views of the Government and the rapporteurs on the prejudices or suspensive issues. It is not that we ask the Government and the rapporteur what they think of it; we would miss it, and it would also be out of place to question them in this respect. Therefore, you understand... president. I fully understand your position. CRIMI (M5S). I would ask if the Committee on the Rules of Procedure could meet now. We have all day. I understand there are trolleys ready and there's a game tonight, and I know someone's in a hurry. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] But let's do it now, so much so that we have problems. By the way, there is no Chamber on Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u25	I give the floor to say that we are on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u26	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. This morning the request for no passage to the examination of the articles was motivated both by the 5 Star Movement and by Senator Malan by a particular fact, namely the fact that there is an article in this bill that refers to documents not consultable. A government response was therefore needed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was the answer. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). You came in later, so probably... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was the government's response. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). No. If it had been there, we would not have submitted a request for no passage to the examination of the articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look at the shorthand report and you'll see what it is. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Look, we were all here, and there was no government response. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Of course, if your voices surpassed those of the government, it's clear you didn't hear it. But the stenographers sensed it and recorded it. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u27	I'm telling you that you're starting from the wrong assumption, because the answer was there. Not only that, the required convention schemes have also arrived: at the meeting of the Heads of Group, the Government undertook to bring in the convention schemes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u28	Mr President, thank God, the government is represented by the same people. There was no reply this morning on the issue of non-consultable documents. This was the reason why no passage to articles was proposed. This is not a matter of political agreement. The rule of the Rules of Procedure, you teach me for your story, is a guarantee for all of us, for the way we can work. Then, there is no doubt that, when it is asked, the question of not passing to the examination of the articles comes before the question of trust. This is not because I support it, but because you have taught me on other occasions that in this House the rule of practice and interpretation of a rule of the Rules of Procedure is law. The practice is in the sense indicated by Senator Palma, so I cannot understand how we can overcome it with an agreement between the Groups. Politics cannot go beyond the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u29	I have understood what the concept is, but before the further speeches required, I would like to clarify one thing. The reasoning starts from a mistaken assumption in my opinion, namely that the non-transition to the examination of the articles is an incidental or suspensive issue. I gave Senator Malan the floor on the order of business, and I interrupted him precisely because it went beyond what he had requested. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] So you can't interpret what I wanted to do. There is authentic interpretation, which is mine, in the sense that I gave the word and, giving the word... [[Ironic applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] The problem is that it is not an incidental or suspensive issue, but a substantive issue, and I explain the reasons. The vote shall not be taken by show of hands, but may be taken by roll-call vote and, once the change to the articles has been approved, this shall lead to the rejection of the measure. Therefore, more substantial than this situation there is and certainly is not a question of suspensive or preliminary consideration in the context of the procedure that takes place. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). The question referred for a preliminary ruling also involves the rejection of the measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This, perhaps, is the default setting. There is no doubt, however, that we can address this issue at the Conference of Leaders and decide first whether this is a substantive issue, as I believe and as I think it is obvious, rather than an incidental or suspensive issue. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] We can't go on forever anyway. I have been asked for details, which I think I have given in full. The rest is versatile.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u32	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, in supporting the request for the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I believe that the matter does not actually exist, in the sense that there is a precise time when the request for a non-version to the Rules of Procedure is made. At the limit, what is to be interpreted is whether the request for trust is a response from the Government, or not, because in some cases there was the reply of the Undersecretary or the Deputy Minister followed by the request for trust and, in others, this did not happen. In any case, in each of the two situations, at the closure of the replies, as you will understand it does not matter, the phase of the not transition to the articles, which is certainly a substantial thing, but nevertheless requires a debate and a vote, which are prior to what comes next.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u33	Once the question of trust has been raised, everything else is overwhelmed by its affixion. However, we must bring this matter back to the terms that have already been dealt with. I have given you the details that have been requested. To continue to insist on the same themes seems to me to be ultra-roneous. If there are other arguments, they will be accepted and evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u36	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, let me just make a very brief comment and then I will turn to the further issues compared to the debate that has already been developed. At a time when you say that the government's question of trust overwhelms everything, it means that it overwhelms what it has been, and not what could not happen, because in anticipation of confidence it has turned it off. Reconnecting with Senator Caliendo's intervention, I believe that if there are no conditions for the House to understand what the Government is saying, those conditions must be restored. Otherwise, we were all able to know what Minister Boschi had to say even before he came in here. We are now dealing with a formal issue and we are talking about articles on a subject which, however, has a heavy political substance. So we have to take charge of these two issues in the Rules of Procedure Junta. The first is whether a Parliament should give priority to the Parliament itself or the Government, which is a guest here and not a landlord. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] ; whether, therefore, even from a chronological point of view, a space should be provided for the speeches of Members of Parliament or whether the question of trust also overwhelms our prerogatives. And again, if we can think that it is a Council for the Rules of Procedure that decides precisely on these matters, which have a very high institutional rank, immediately inferior to that of the Constitution, we can in essence bend these reasons and these values to the logics of the Government and its provision. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] There will be no chance of return. We cannot continue to remedy escaped oxen. A few days ago, Senator Airola invited her to think, saying that we cannot make explanations of vote on a text that has not yet been submitted. And I discovered with surprise that this is an absolute precedent, because the practice was that the wagon could be placed before the oxen. On this basis, I would ask you to interrupt the work immediately and to convene the Conference of Leaders in good time, because otherwise you will assume responsibility for a fact that has been accomplished. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u37	Perhaps I have not been clear in saying that this issue was also addressed by its Parent in the Conference and the majority of the Leaders, in the state - even Senator Ferrara has acknowledged this - considered that the issue was addressed. The call for the Conference of the Leaders to be convened for this is, therefore, already out of date.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u39	You have the floor, but then let's get out of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you. I support your statement, when you said earlier: I'm the one who does the authentic interpretation. In fact, when Senator Crimes intervened - this is reflected in the shorthand report - saying: I would like to point out that we have lodged (...) a request pursuant to Article 96 not to pass on to the articles of the Rules of Procedure, you immediately took the floor and said: I invite you to explain your request for non-transition to the examination of articles. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] After that, I intervened and said: I would like to join, support and speak in favour of the request for non-transition to the examination of articles. Senator De Petris also began by saying: "Mr President, I too would like to support the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles." The issue is quite clear. You gave an interpretation and I marry your interpretation. It was a request for no passage to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u41	Yeah, but the illustration doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u42	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Give me 30 seconds, Mr. President. I know that once I ask for trust... Apparently, I was wrong to give you the floor to clarify your concept. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But I'm sorry, I'm corroborating what you said. You said: "I do the authentic interpretation" but you have to do it at the right time. For this morning he said to Senator Crimes: I call on you to explain your request for non-transition to the examination of articles. It seems clear to me that this was a question of non-transition to the examination of articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So, you want to tell me that you intend to make an explanation of vote, as Senator Palma says? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It says in the shorthand and it also says in the part of Senator De Petris' speech. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). It's in the text of the intervention! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You yourself, President Grasso, told Senator Crimes: "I invite you to explain your request for no transition to the examination of the articles." We stick to his interpretation, but to his interpretation, and not to the one that then changes maybe five hours later. BEEPS (PD). President, that's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you have to read everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u45	Barani (GAL). Mr President, of course, I do not intend to teach you the interpretation of articles and quirks, because it is your profession. I'll do another one, the doctor's one. In just fifteen seconds, however, the political reflection that I would like to make is that this majority did not need help: it is so strong and cohesive that it would reject the request for no transition to the examination of the articles and, therefore, it would have proceeded on a regular basis. I therefore believe that being stubborn in not interpreting the Rules of Procedure means damaging this majority, which does not need any more aid. In fact, the government will probably gain confidence from over 160 senators and less than 100 will not vote for it. Therefore, it was enough to put to the vote the proposal not to move to the articles [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] : the majority would have rejected it and, therefore, we would have avoided discussing these tricks to the right bugs, which yes, has passed to history, but negatively, of Manzoni's memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u46	It seems to me that everything has been clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u47	[[Protests from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u48	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1651, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that the general debate took place in the afternoon sitting and the Government put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of the bill at our examination, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the House on the relevant financial cover profiles. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u49	Mr President, before I report on what we have discussed, of course, I note that the speed with which the issue of trust has been put forward has not allowed the Commission to give its opinions in its own right. This is something that would be better not to happen, because it is right for the Commission to express itself on the profiles of honesty within the assessment of the decree or draft law, and then possibly report on it. This is, of course, for a clear reason, namely the vote which, in the case of the Commission's own examination, is taken; in the other case, when it refers to the amendment on which the question of trust arises, it is not in the Commission. Therefore, it would always be useful - this is of course referred to the Government - for us to always be able to express the opinion. It is precisely for this reason that we are making a separate opinion on articles, as if it were the opinion at the Commission's own seat, and I would, of course, add what would have been the comments on the merits of the groups or of individual senators and senators. In the meantime, what is certainly agreed on is the following: as is well known, the decree-law is equipped with a passing technical report, to which the rapporteur's reflections in the Commission have been added, to which the Government has given its replies. This premise is necessary in order to understand exactly the articulation of the opinion. The Commission therefore took note of the Government's response to the rapporteur's requests. In the light of these replies, according to which: the rules referred to in Article 5 are not ascribed to any effect in terms of revenue reduction; that the consideration of the additional guarantees of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, as referred to in Article 10, is of a purely possible nature; that the new charges brought about by Article 16 can be met, within the Sardinian Region's budget, by remodulating other expenditure items; that, with regard to Article 40, the different temporal profile, in terms of needs and net indebtedness, of the unused share of social shock absorbers in derogation from what is accounted for in terms of net balance to be financed, derives from a prudential estimate of the impact on the aforementioned balances of minor payments by the overall public administrations sector, on the basis of the profiles recorded in the past, the Commission gives some observations. As regards Article 5, the Commission assumes that the new arrangements for the management of motorway concessions do not lead to a reduction in tax revenue in relation to the applicability of tax facilitation measures, or to the failure to tender for the issue of new concessions. With regard to Article 7, the new finalisation of the resources from the 2007-2013 Development and Cohesion Fund must be consistent with the criteria for spending the appropriations earmarked for it and be taken into account in public finance balances. With regard to Article 16-a, the budget of ANAS Spa must allow the new burden to be covered by the reduction of other expenditure requirements. In addition, the Commission makes the following observation: in relation to Article 20, amending the discipline of listed real estate investment companies, it is noted that the new mechanism for facilitating entry or stay in the SIIQ scheme could have negative effects in terms of revenue which, however, given the small number of potential beneficiaries, would still have a negligible financial impact. Finally, since the passing technical report reveals that Article 34 (7) of the Constitution provides for the coverage of Article 81 of the Constitution, the Commission agrees with what is explained in the technical report and therefore considers that the Government must give its opinion on the repeal of this rule which, in our opinion, is discovered. In addition to these observations, comments were also made by some senators and senators, in particular two, who considered that Article 10 and, in other respects, Article 20 deserved censorship. These are the positions on which, of course, if it had been possible to carry out the examination in its own place, the Commission could have been expressed by means of the vote. So I'll write them down as positions taken. There have been other elements of discussion but exclusively for merit profiles. In my report, however, I can only focus on issues relating to financial profiles. Of course, as you can understand, since there is agreement between the Commission's technical report and that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is necessary for the Government to make an explicit statement on this request. Mr President, I know that many times we have a sudden acceleration in our work, but our task in these cases comes directly from the Constitution and we need to be able to carry it out in depth, also because - as a modest provincial lawyer, I remind myself that, when it comes to promulgation, the President of the Republic has power over the very issues of Article 81. Therefore, the reflections of the Budget Commission are then put, as constitutionally it is right that it should be, to our attention. We too, as always, intend to do our work in the best possible way and we are sure that this will be accepted by you. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u52	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, first of all I would like to inform Parliament that, at the right request of the senators, the Government has formally forwarded to Parliament the text of the Convention referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 5. I say this for the sake of information and also to follow up on the statements made by the Minister this morning before the imposition of confidence. On the substance of the questions raised by President Azzollini, I would like to thank the Budget Committee and President Azzollini himself for the accuracy and precision with which they wanted to address this issue. Indeed, the question raised in Article 34 (7) is real and has already been raised in the passing technical report. It stems from an amendment of parliamentary initiative in the House, which excluded from the Internal Stability Pact the burdens arising from reclamation works in the territorial authorities. This amendment is without financial cover. So, we're well aware. Introduced now the amendment of the text would, in fact, again mean the passage to the Chamber and the almost sure decadence of the decree-law, which - I remember - is convertible by the 11th of this month. We believe that the many rules contained in the decree-law are useful at this stage of crisis. We would therefore consider it serious if they did not come into force. This being said, precisely on the basis of the reports already submitted to the Government, the Commission intends to comply with the content of the technical report and with the specific comments of the Budget Committee and President Azzollini almost immediately. The Government formally undertakes, before Parliament, to heal this financial vulnus before the promulgation of the measure on which we placed trust, through a decree-law that is corrective to the rule cited and rightly contested. CRIMI (M5S). That is the only reason why, Mr President, you should suspend! They'll do it tomorrow!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u53	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u54	Mr President, I only need a few minutes to express my indignation at what is contained in this decree-law on pipelines, regasifiers, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons and, above all, incinerators, which are considered of strategic interest and of public utility, as well as of national interest. I find it truly scandalous and shameful what has been heard in this House in the words of a PD senator. The voices of citizens who oppose the use of their territory, when they consider it offensive to their health, to the integrity of their natural and cultural heritage and also to the protection of the fruit of their industriousness, were bell towered. I have heard of the holders of public functions and responsibilities who are subject to localistic pressures, thus liquidating, with arrogance and superficiality, the work of administrators who obviously have a bad propensity to listen to their population. It is called on the PD to help local communities achieve the general interest and not to prevent this from happening. Emilia-Romagna, which is my region, has eight incinerators which, following Article 35, will have to burn waste beyond the limits. It is involved in the search for hydrocarbons, with serious risks to the environment, to health and to our work. This must be done in order not to mortify national interests and to contribute to the general interest. Now, hasn't my region contributed enough to the country's general interest? Does it not already contribute with something that is much more relevant and important than what is being asked of you at the moment? Should I make a list? All over the world they know our food products, our mechanical industry, our creativity ranging from fashion to industrial design and even to educational activities for children. And all this is born in a territory that has never been pulled back when it was a matter of helping those who were in difficulty, who knew how to give work and welcome; a land that can also be raised from earthquakes, as well as from floods. Then the question is as follows: do the people of my land have the right or not to express themselves and be considered when they want to manage on their territory a problem of waste, which arises from the fugitives of governments that have led us to commit violations, for this reason as well as for many other reasons and for many other issues? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do the people of all regions not have the right to be heard when it comes to the use of their territory? Do they not have the right to be heard through their representatives who have been elected here and who have been silenced by constant blows of so-called trust? How do you plan to move on with this government? With the stick within national boundaries and the drinking arrogance outside them? I hope at least that the senators, particularly those in my region, who are going to give the green light to this decree-law today, will have the courage to go and explain why in front of their voters. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u55	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u56	Mr President, the Northern League Group will firmly deny this Government's confidence. We deny the confidence to a decree-law that does not unlock Italy, since it does not unlock anything with respect to the needs and needs of the country. This is the decree unlocks drills, but even more is the unlocking garbage from the South to the North, because with Article 35 the North is forced to compensate for the inability to manage the South. The government's decision to send millions of tons of waste to the North is inadmissible to resolve the chronic inability of politicians and administrators who have ruined their territories by reducing them to open-air landfills. Renzi shows contempt for the virtuous regions that have achieved excellence in waste management. In addition, he also requires thermo-towers, incinerators and cement plants in the North to become strategic plants of national interest in order to be allowed to operate to the maximum of its thermal capacity and to be able to dispose of what the South, due to negligence, has accumulated over the years, including eco-balls. With the free movement of municipal waste on national territory, Renzi thus avoids the sanctions of Europe, which, precisely because of bad management, has challenged us many infringements, cost the public coffers millions of euros. It is unacceptable that the territories and populations of Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany and even Veneto, which over the years have built a virtuous system of telling differentiated with adequate disposal plants, must become the new and legalized garbage can of Italy and, therefore, suffer pollution due to the numerous means of transport and the combustion of mountains of external waste, of whose quality there is no guarantee. This is an explanation of vote on the question of trust, so the considerations are obviously of a general nature on government action. This was the government that had to change towards the country, which had to restore hope and confidence to Italian citizens, relaunch growth and employment. Well, after nine months that President Renzi governs, the direction in which you are taking this country is exactly the same towards which they were leading first President Monti and then President Letta, that is, towards the abyss. You're taking the country to the abyss, to the recession, to the default. That you are bringing the country into the abyss does not say the North League, but the numbers say it; the economic parameters, even yesterday recalled from Europe, that gave us severe warnings. Never before do the economic parameters mark the country's difficulty: the public debt has increased (to 133.8 percent, maximum historical level), the taxes are very high and will increase again with the law of stability, which imposes crazy cuts on the territorial authorities. Unemployment has increased: 13% of general unemployment and 43% of youth unemployment are real figures confirming the failure of this Government's political action. In addition, GDP decreases - we are in recession - production decreases; export decreases; corporate failures increase and the number of companies and companies closing down increases. You are the government of promises, of unwitting promises. You are the government that had to pay public administration debts to companies by September 21st, but companies are still waiting for a lot of billions. You are the ones who had to finance the schools: 3.5 billion promised funding that has been reduced to 1 billion. You are the ones who had to intervene effectively on the hydrogeological failure and instead allocated crumbs, both for ground defense interventions and for the national emergency fund. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With this decree, after the proclamations, integrated the fund of only 50 million: aspirin in war, as defined by Gabrielli. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] It is the bottom to which should draw not only Genoa, but also Parma, the Maremma, Gargano, Lombardy and from now, unfortunately, also the territories of the Provinces of Massa Carrara and La Spezia. The 80 euros, the famous 80 euros that had to revive domestic consumption - which absolutely did not happen - were only electoral tips for use and consumption of the Democratic Party and Renzi's election campaign. The 80 euros on the one hand, but remember that you are also those of the 8 euros compensation to prisoners and of the 40 euros per day for the reception of illegals! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I am referring to the illegals of those 150,000 landings that occurred only this year, encouraged by the demential operation Mare nostrum, the largest invasion operation on our territory, which still continues despite the departure of Triton, and for which, after having allocated 130 million euros with the decree stadiums, emptying the return fund, now you prepare, with the law of stability, to allocate another 200 million per year for the next three years. You are the ones who do not find the money for the Italian workers in difficulty, not even the 80 euros promised to pensioners with the minimum, the unemployed, the incapienti, but you find billions of euros in order to guarantee the phenomenon of immigration, on which there are very strong economic interests. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] You are the ones who are killing the local autonomy, first the Provinces with Delrio, and now with the constitutional reform, the greatest hypercentralist reform that has ever been carried out, which brings everything back to the head of the state. You're a failing government with an arrogant premier. Also this decree will not bring that expected revival of the Country, that it will remain in the immobilism and will not give that urgent impulse to the resumption of the investments and the productive activities. In many respects it is a mess, which not only will not solve the unresolved problems, but will create new ones. In short, the decree will unlock nothing compared to what the country asks: unlock only drills and waste! For all these reasons, the League can only deny you confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u57	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all knew that the conversion of this decree-law would end with the question of trust. However, we would have voted against this measure, since on the substance, with the excuse of speeding up, it eliminates the necessary controls for the protection of the environment, it benefits already winners of competitions by changing the conditions at competition, extension of public concessions, focus, Commissioner, derogation. But I would like to take the time you devote to listening to another aspect: this is yet another question of confidence with which the Government prevents Parliament, generally one branch at a time, from analysing legislative acts. Sorry, not the government, but it is the majority: in one, the government and its parliamentary majority, all controlled, at different levels, by the current secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi. At this point I am addressing this House: is it clear to everyone that the rules we follow are other than those laid down in the Constitution? Is it clear that we are subject to that dictatorship of the majority deprecated by liberal thinking, rather than a dictatorship of the majority? Who governs today is, in fact, who has completed the OPA on the Democratic Party and has managed to conquer its directing booth with a reckless maneuver, carried out to the sound of: Enrico, stay calm. To remain serene today is all Italy, all the Italy ship that today, in the name of the renewal, is led to make a very risky bow to the oldest interests that, in the last four decades, have already plundered that ship: all this passing above the institutional functioning of our Country and the form and the substance of the rules placed by the Constitution; that Constitution according to which, today, we denounce a Government that is not able to produce the regulatory acts and the implementing decrees of its competence and has put itself in the head to replace the Parliament and to legislate in its place. And with what results? The establishment of the laws is done by the offices that produce them according to their own logic of operation of the society. The laws constantly correct the legislation in every sector, obtaining illegible norms and, therefore, interpretable at will, while the Government drives Italy as a child would drive a bus, but without the control of adults. We, with all the Italians, are on that bus. [[Applause from Senator Bocchino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u59	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u60	Mr President, I am addressing my colleagues in the majority: you cannot fail to know, because you know perfectly well that this is not good. You know that it is possible - nothing forbids it - that a government, in a few months, places the issue of trust for as many as 25 times, as it is possible to make continuous omnibus decrees. This is possible, even if it would take someone to protect the country against all this: a President of the Republic super partes, who can tell the government when it exceeds, when in the form it uses it goes beyond legitimate, giving it rules. (17.13) (Nugnes follow). However, I still have the images of the second election of President Napolitano: it was a plebiscite, from right to left. The applause was thrilled, because the design that originated in past years was being carried out. There is a unicum that has brought us here without a solution of continuity: we have arrived by chance and all that is declared as renewal is nothing more than a restoration. Some people's special interests are gaining more and more power over everyone's good. What happened? We had the text of this decree in hand only last Thursday, when it was still dressed by the Chamber of Deputies and on Thursday itself, at the Conference of the Leaders, we were told that, by 10 a.m. on Monday, the deadline for amendments in the Commission would be expired, while at 14 a.m. the deadline for amendments in the Chamber would have expired, starting the theatre. We, then, wonder whether it is lawful and fair for us to be part of this theater. We all know, in fact, that it is a theatre: everyone here comes and plays his part, and it is a really difficult and annoying part and I think it is also for you and for your consciences. Uneasiness cannot fail to dwell in you, when you find yourself spending hours debating amendments that you know you will not vote on; when you are there to assess a measure on which you know the question of trust will have to be raised. This discomfort can not fail to disturb your sleep, because you are all people who have studied and made a journey. I feel the discomfort between you in the Commission and I feel it in this House, in these lowered eyes. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). What the hell? NUGNES (M5S). I therefore wonder why, for what interest we must submit to and submit to this. Since you accuse us of being the only ones shouting (Renzi says that those of the 5 Star Movement are the ones screaming), this morning I appointed all the movements, associations, scientists, scholars, lawyers who are behind a movement of opposition, "Block it unlocks Italy". Today I want to allow myself - and my colleagues will excuse me - to quote the words of someone else who is not us. I want to quote the words of Tomaso Montanari, who writes: The Unlock-Italy decree is, instead, a double death jump backwards. A terrible return to a past that we hoped we'd left forever. A past in which "development" was equal to "cement." In which to "do" it was necessary to violate the law, or to bypass it. In which the fundamental rights of persons (such as health) were considered to be obstacles that could be overcome and not objectives to be achieved. He added: "Giuseppe Dossetti wanted this article to be included in the Constitution: "The individual and collective resistance to the acts of the public authorities which violate fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by this Constitution is the right and duty of every citizen." Again, I quote the words of Paolo Maddalena, famous jurist: The consequence is that everything is now "sold" or "privatised" in order to feed the transfer of goods from the community to speculators, while the Italians risk losing the entire territory, becoming like the Jews under the slavery of Babylon. Incrediblely, the decree in question does not defend the territory at all, nor does it defend the environmental devastation caused by building, cementing and road waterproofing, which is even encouraged, nor is it encouraged by privatization and alienation to private individuals (who are often foreigners). And Renzi said this: I don't care if they're Chinese or Japanese, as long as they're in Italy. But listen carefully as Paul Maddalena continues, you should remember: Therefore, it must be strongly affirmed that the "territory", the constituent element of the political community, is not a freely available asset by the government or by local administrators, but is in the "collective property" or in the "superproperty" of the people, as sovereignty. History teaches this, from which it emerges that the "collective property" of the territory originally belongs to the people as "sovereignty" and has always preceded the private one, and our Constitution teaches it. The Charter, in Article 42, not only states that "property is public or private," implying that in the adjective "public" it is understood, as Massimo Severo Giannini said, "the collective property of the property that naturally belong to all and are therefore "out of trade" and, therefore, inalienable, incomprehensible and inexpropriable; but also stresses that on private property the "superproperty" of the people still remains,... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. NUGNES (M5S). It is extrinsic in the "limits" placed on private property, i.e. in the public authorities of the "planification of the territory," of "the conformation of private property," of the granting of the "permissions to build" (the "right to build" belongs to the people and is not at all "involved" in the right to private property) and in the need to pursue the "social function" (). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u63	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking for the correctness and regularity of our sitting, because otherwise I fear that, despite the extremely interesting debate on the Rules of Procedure, we have spoken for nothing to date. Article 60 (2) says: The sitting shall begin with the reading of the Minutes which, if there are no comments, shall be deemed to have been adopted without a vote. If the vote is to be taken, the vote shall be taken by show of hands. That is what our Rules of Procedure read. I tried to make this clear, because I had the clear impression that no one had put the Minutes to the vote. So it is, because in the shorthand report, after the reading of the minutes by Senator Secretary of Giorgi, we read: "Barani." I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Barani. Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. At this point the President says: As there are no further comments, the Minutes are hereby approved. It is clear that no one has approved and voted on the Minutes, as requested by Mr Barani. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] So unless we rewind the whole tape and start with the series of speeches, at this point, because of the regularity of the sitting, we must approve the Minutes. If you have to ask for a quorum immediately before the vote, pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u64	Since I have absolutely no doubt about what you read, Senator Calderoli, I suspend the session for five minutes and do the verification. The sitting is suspended for five minutes... [[Lively protests from LN-Aut and M5S groups.]] So, stop. I said five minutes, but I'm also capable of making it faster. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] Senator Crimes, there's no doubt about it. I am just telling Senator Calderoli that, since I have no doubt as to what he has read, I am now referring to the President, because he was presiding, and I simply ask that we be able to move forward in the meantime, knowing that now we must solve - I say this clearly - the issue that Senator Calderoli has put forward. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're the president! Montevecchi (M5S). Will you check it out in an hour?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u67	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Stop, look, I'm not listening, I can't listen. Montevecchi (M5S). You still don't listen! You never listen to anyone! You're checking it out now, not in an hour! Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Colleagues, will you let me speak, please? Senator Montevecchi, be quiet; I listen to him many times, now I speak too. Excuse me, Madam President, I have given a way of accommodating things, precisely because we have to redo the whole explanation of Senator Azzollini and everything else. The sitting was opened at the time of approval of the minutes. Period. If you now suspend to allow the majority to come and guarantee the quorum, I am sorry, but it is a procedure that is too prolific, and that is not allowed, because the Rules of Procedure have already been drawn to the right and to the left today. It's already been shattered badly and it falls apart after the second time it opens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups.]] I didn't get the trial documentation directly from one of my sources, but I asked the offices. So it is clear that we are now voting, without waiting for the camel troops.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u68	Okay. I put the Minutes to the vote. A favorable person is begged to raise his hand. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. [[The quorum is then checked. Live comments and protests from the M5S Group.]] I declare closed the quorum check. I ask each senator to vote in his place, please. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] I said the quorum check is closed. The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.25 p.m. and resumed at 5.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u70	The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u73	Barani (GAL). Madam President, we are returning the request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u74	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u77	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, on a point of order. Rule 60 (2) states that 'The sitting shall begin with the reading of the minutes which, if there are no comments, shall be deemed to have been adopted without a vote. If the vote is to be taken, the vote shall be taken by show of hands. As a result, Mr President, the sitting begins now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u78	With regard also to the point of order made by Senator Calderoli, the Presidency, after having carried out the appropriate checks, found that, after checking the quorum, the Minutes were given for approval without putting them to the vote. Although it does not dispute in any way the merits of the remarks made, it should be noted that Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure does not expressly provide for the non-approval of ritual forms to have an adverse effect on the continuation of the sitting, all the more so in a case such as today in which no further votes were taken at the time when the appeal was made. Moreover, there are countless precedents in which, after verification of the quorum, the Minutes have been approved in the absence of any comments (I am also thinking of the minutes of 1 October 2014). I therefore consider the vote to be complete.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u80	Please, Senator Calderoli, having already replied to you, allow us to continue as well as from your request. We have checked the quorum and the Minutes have been approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u81	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, you can find precedents all the time: just look for them. I did not draw up a precedent, but there is a specific request, which is not respected by the President-in-Office, to proceed to a vote on the Minutes, which is in favour, against and abstention. This is not in the record and therefore it was not done, I say it so that it stays in the record. That did not happen, my assessment is absolutely identical to that of President Centinario, because if the sitting has begun at this moment, we start from scratch.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u82	I have already replied to this second comment by President Centinario.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u83	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already talked about the order of business. Please, Senator De Cristofaro, take the floor. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). President! I'm asking you to talk about the order of business! VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please sit down, Senator Ciampolillo. Now he is enrolled to speak Senator De Cristofaro, who has the word.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u84	Madam President, I consider, together with my Group, that it is very serious that for the umpteenth time, I believe the 25th, the question of trust by this Government has been raised on such an important decree. I could say, making a joke, that while waiting for the perfect bicameralism foreseen by constitutional reform to be overcome, we are instead doing the alternating-perfect bicameralism, in the sense that once in the Senate, once in the Chamber of Deputies it is first to vote on trust, then the decrees arrive in a very short time at the other House and move on with this method. This method brings together a permanent recourse to the decree (as has also been said in the discussion of the constitutional prejudices, also and especially when they are completely lacking, as in this case, the characteristics of necessity and urgency), the recourse, once again, to the so-called omnibus decree, which speaks of everything and the opposite of everything and then, precisely, this permanent demand for trust that clearly serves to cover what we all know, that is, the probable divisions that exist within the parliamentary majority and that are covered by the abuse of that instrument. I have said many times in this House and I will not stop doing so as long as I breathe. I think that this methodology - I am also addressing, and above all, my colleagues with whom I have shared the election campaign, where I said that we would give life to a government that would not do this - does not help the democracy of this country and indeed deeply degrades it. But I invite you to reflect that all this corresponds exactly to man's idea only to command, as it was written a few days ago on some authoritative daily. This is exactly what the Italian left has never stopped fighting over the course of all these years and decades. Obviously, Madam President, as this decree unfortunately shows, this is not simply a problem of method, but also a problem of substance. This idea of man only in command, the idea that decisions should not go through the free democratic debate in this House, but should be taken exclusively in the chamber of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, is not simply a matter of method, but also a matter of substance. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]] I say this to my colleagues: in article 33, paragraph 3, of this decree, there is a forecast that will create a very dangerous precedent; whatever judgment you have on the Municipality of Naples and on those who administer it, creates a huge democratic vulnus because if it is taken away from a municipality, which is its owner, the power of decisions in urban matters, are exceeded the regulatory plans and is entrusted a very delicate topic, such as that of the reclamation of Bagnoli, evidently a site of great importance also at national level, no longer the body and the agencies in charge, but differently, precisely, the idea of man only who commands, today can also work but in the long run will not work. These rules that are being created today will create very dangerous precedents. I think that this Parliament should have strongly rebelled against this. It is not simply what is written in the decree, about which we can discuss; I, from my point of view, express a radical dissent with respect to the choices of merit that are made: incinerators, drillings, the general idea of model of development that somehow goes through the whole decree. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] In this case, however, there is a more serious issue, which concerns precisely the instruments of democracy and the great issue of the political relationship between local authorities and the state. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Fattori.]] With this decree you are building a very dangerous precedent. Then I want to say it with great clarity, even if we represent a small party, even if our voice sometimes comes to you little: you have to know that this derives from us we will contract it to the end. We will be few, we will be alone, but this drift we will contract to the end; we will do it for this country. We will do this for the democracy of this country, President, also because - let me conclude this way - when then happens, as is happening, that man alone in command is the same who then organizes a financing dinner, and it happens that this dinner participates the same who are beneficiaries of this measure ( [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Campanella and Bignami]] , even to me, President, that I have never been a backseater in life, to me that the backseaters have always endured them little, as I have always endured little demagoguery of any kind, in short, even to me some suspicion comes to me. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I think it would be much better to wipe out the suspicions, because if in this country passes the idea that you have to please the man only in command and that if you do so something in return you will have it, I think we do a dramatic service to Italian democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Campanella and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u87	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, as you will recall, this morning's sitting was closed a bit harshly, even on a request, repeated by Senator Malan and other senators, taken up by me, resulting from the fact that - as regards dinners - Article 5 of this decree, in particular paragraph 4, that on the extension of the motorway concessions, even provides that by the decree itself we actually approve the convention schemes. It has been asked - then it has been said that the Minister has responded positively - to have a copy of these conventions. Well, only a convention has been delivered to us, which concerns the A21, the Piacenza-Cremona-Brescia, where, I do not know if they are omissis or other, the years of duration of the concession itself are not even indicated (there are a number of asterisks). We would also like to know why we should approve the conversion of a decree-law containing also the convention relating to A3, the Naples-Pompei-Salerno, without giving us even a trace of the same. Madam President, I also addressed the kind representative of the Government who replied that we had only asked for the A21 Convention. Here the problem is not the request. We have to understand each other! When we adopt a decree-law in this way, without the time, neither in the Commission nor in this House, to say nothing, to try to make changes, once again putting the question of trust, it should be necessary and normal, for the sake of transparency, for all senators to have the cards in order at least to be able to decide. As you know, Madam President, even in some Councils and Municipal Councils where votes against were cast in relation to certain resolutions, those who opposed them were also prosecuted. We do not want to be in a position in this House to conclude this umpteenth affair with a vote of confidence without anyone being able to have the necessary papers to know what is being voted on. I therefore ask you, Madam President, to immediately invite the Government to provide us with the conventions and, if possible, the conventions without omissis, but also with the exact data on the duration of the concession itself. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u88	I inform you, because it is the responsibility of the Government, that the Presidency has distributed the text that the Government has provided. The only text on which the Government raises the question of trust. GAETTI (M5S). There's one missing. There's only the A21 convention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the sense that that is the text that we have distributed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so. (Senator Candiani asks to intervene.) Senator Candiani, I'll give you the floor later. Please, your Group has already spoken and also the Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u89	Madam President, I take the floor reluctantly because it seems to me that it cannot be possible to repeat a request that should not even be made, since the Government should provide such documentation regardless. I believe that the question of trust will soon be raised without even presenting the text! [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]] On the other hand we voted the so-called jobs act in which there is nothing written [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then he can do all the government as he wants to do to regulate his internal battles (inside the Democratic Party). Not only is one of the two conventions given to us, but it is provided without a fundamental element, i.e. its duration. It would be like saying that I sell a car in installments, without indicating how many installments you have to pay: two installments, one hundred installments, you don't know! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It settles according to the convenience of the Government and the various lenders. Not government lenders, of course, because they are careful not to give money to the state: from the state they take them and then they can spend them for the Democratic Party dinners. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] The story we have before us is very simple...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u90	Let each one stick to the merit of things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u91	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sticking to the merit of things. Article 5 states - it does not explicitly say so, but President Renzi has said so explicitly in an interview given to the Corriere della Sera in September - that there will be an extension of the motorway concessions. It even emerged (word of the same manager, main concessionaire and almost the only beneficiary of this decree-law) that before issuing the decree-law (which, I remember, should be of extraordinary necessity and urgency), they expected forty days to have the time to speak with these gentlemen and ask how they liked the decree-law to be written, in particular paragraph 1 of Article 5. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] When they were very sure of how to write it, so that it would be useful for precise people and would be as convenient as possible, the decree-law was written: on September 12, after forty days the representatives of the people, those who would have to make the laws (i.e. parliamentarians), had not known anything about it; instead, the beneficiaries knew something about it. Once the decree-law has been submitted, fortunately, the House of Deputies has just had to make a change, namely that the extension of concessions is only made after receiving the opinion of the European Union that has already undertaken the practices to initiate the infringement procedure. In the Chamber there have also been strongly unfavourable opinions of the Transport Regulatory Authority, the Competition Authority and the market, the Bank of Italy. But it doesn't matter: we have to move forward because it is a matter of giving a benefit - I repeat: these are the words of President Renzi - of 10-12 billion business to be managed to an already predetermined group. It is a group that manages highway companies without ever winning a race, but only for having taken over parapublic, half public and half private companies: thanks to this it manages highways. I repeat: if he manages them. He has had extensions in exchange for the promise to carry out certain works that he has not completed and now asks to extend them, but no more than modest 10 or 12 years: he asks to extend them by 38 years. I repeat: 38 years. Who knows then what the situation of Italy and the European Union will be like. You can do it this way. I quote the words of Davide Serra, another sponsor of the Democratic Party (but I quote them in positive), known for having expressed things that I do not share on the right to strike. He said: there are certain motorway managers who say: we make investments for 100. They make it for 30, and then they can put someone in the control authorities, their friend. They are oligopolists and monopolists who, by chance, love to be close to the political class to self-control: a hallucinating lobby. They keep raising rates, et cetera. These are the words of Davide Serra, a substantial financier, at most provided for by the law on the financing of parties, the Democratic Party, the Leopolda and other similar initiatives. It is the same group, the Gavio Group, which, by chance, bought from the Province of Milan, led by Filippo Penati, the shares of the Milano-Serravalle Motorway and which, within a few years, sold them with a profit attested, by the court's expert opinions, about 176 million euros, with an erarial damage of 119 million euros. So, what does this Gavio Group do to those who want to pass these laws? What's the magic wand? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It is said that this fund-raiser collects 1.5 million of all participants. Well, a little cheap, he gets a 30 billion deal, and then he only gives 1,000 euros for a dinner? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gibiino]] I believe that there are many other interests at stake, and it is shameful that such a measure is going through, with confidence, without even giving the terms of other things that are even outside of this. I wonder what is written in the convention that they have not given us, because it is more than shameful what we see in paragraph 1 of Article 5. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u94	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry, but I am also speaking on the order of business this time. Going a little further back, to what Mrs De Petris said earlier, at the Conference of the Leaders, if she remembers correctly, we asked for the conventions. We have asked for a series of information so that we can deal constructively with this parliamentary debate. It seems to me that we asked for them quietly and calmly. We asked them so quietly and calmly that I, when we were at the Conference of Leaders, asked Minister Boschi: do you have the documents? Because, look, if you don't have them and you need time, we organize ourselves and try to do things as normal as possible. We also give you time to recover them. The Minister said: no, no, we have everything. You have nothing! [[Showing a Document]] What is this stuff? What document is this here? That's not what we asked. That is not what we asked for in this House; that is not what we asked for at the Conference of Leaders. It is absolutely not an attack on the Presidency; indeed, it is a call for help at this point, Mr President. During the Conference of Leaders there is usually the famous gentleman agreement among people who try to solve problems, rather than create them. This time, too, we went in the direction of the government, saying: come to the House with the things you need; take an extra hour if you need time. We're willing to do anything. However, I do not want to be fooled, Mr President, because otherwise Mr Airola is right, and you remember Mr Airola's words at the Conference of Leaders. At this point, President Centinario wonders: what is the use of the Conference of the Leaders where agreements are made, we are confronted and we are trying to achieve a result so that we have the work of the House that is the most moderate and normal possible, if we are then systematically mocked by the Government? I'm sick of being teased, Madam President, I'm really sick of it. I understand that it is now in the logic of things to make fun of people, but the problem is that, if the President of the Council is used to teasing the Italians, because maybe they are inattentive to verify the distance between what he says and what he does, this is our job and so we are attentive to the things they say and to what they do and I to be teased for the umpteenth time I am no longer there, Madam President! That's what I'm asking for help with. [[Showing the document again]] This is rag paper. That's not what we agreed to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u95	I would also like to respond to you, Senator Centinario, saying the same thing that I replied to Senator De Petris earlier: this is the text that the Government has put into distribution and on which there is now the debate on trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u98	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, since I asked Mr Boschi to do so, I would like us to read what happened in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u99	Excuse me, Senator, but we're at a different stage of the discussion. By the way, he would now be enlisted to speak Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u100	But Minister Boschi spoke, as it is written in the minutes, of conventions, in the plural.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u101	I am not questioning anything that is being said here. It says so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All I'm saying is that by rules and regulations, what we've been handed over is distributed and you have the text on which the debate on trust is now taking place. [[Senator Ciampollo repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u102	Madam President, I would like to understand why we are here. In fact, we are here to talk about something that we are told, that is that we are discussing trust, but I did not hear the request for trust. So since I didn't hear it, I don't know why we're arguing, since we can't discuss something by having to read it about the synographical reports. It would have been nice for the Minister to come and tell us what she came here to do, because I can't read the lips. Having said that, which is prodromic to what we need to talk about, do we want to read for a moment this convention scheme that you have distributed to us? In Article 5, paragraph 4, of the decree-law in question, it is written that the draft convention is approved. Let's read it. In the premises, in letter g), I read that article 5, paragraph 4, of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014 approved the scheme of convention. Then, if the convention scheme is approved and has the date of the decree, it means that the decree was born first and then the convention scheme. We should agree: if we are to approve an act, at least have the decency not to write us the date of the measure by which you approve it, because this is a fake! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a fake, gentlemen, because you wrote in a convention to approve something and in this act it says by which date you approved it. It's a fake, so I'll sue you in a fake. We're talking about a fake. I say this so that it stays in the record, because this is what the government does and you should be ashamed of the fact that we are talking about a false act. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Clearly, there are some interesting things for those who do this job. The concessionaire provides both the design and the validation of the projects. It's sad to think that the designer stands for it. Is he singing it and playing it? What's the state doing? Shouldn't the dealer do the project and the grantor check it out? This is written in the convention. Later it is stated that: "The duration of the concession is fixed in [●]([●] years (...)". Since [●]([●]) in my home is not a number (unless we interpret the ● as a two, then if it's two years maybe we could argue), but it's 38 years and it's referred to the economic and financial plan and there's also the list of works, maybe it would be useful for us to know how many years we extend the concession, since we have the economic and financial plan. It means that if we do these things, we're doing another illegal thing. It's another fake piece of paper that the government brought us. Another interesting point is the following: The concessionaire is required to pay the eligible entities, namely ANAS, which is the concessionaire, an annual fee equal to 2.4 per cent of the net income of the concessionaire. This means that if the numbers quoted by Senator Malan are true, i.e. the 10 billion, the State collects 240 million. Do we realize that this is good for the state and that we take the crumbs and they take the money? [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Mussini]] Do we realize what you write in these acts? These are acts that you do, you have to be ashamed of what you do! Not to mention the extension of concessions. It has been said here that it is shameful that concessions are being extended and that there are subjects that finance the Democratic Party, but the first extension of concessions was done by the Berlusconi Government, with all due respect, when it extended the concessions of Autostrade for Italy to Gavio. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shall we talk about the charging system? What should make us understand that the rates are used to pay for the investments? But when we privatised Autostrade, the investment had already been made and that tariff had to be revised because the investment was already counted and at that rate we made profit and allowed private individuals to profit. Is that how you protect the public interest? Should you be embarrassed? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 18.15 p.m. (Followed by CIOFFI). I'm not saying I have dignity, but at least a little shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shame, we say it to the government, because perhaps it is the government that must be ashamed. Then, unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Council is also the secretary of a party and therefore, by rebound, shame extends. We have said so many times that this act contains so many useless things and so many that we consider to be a piece of crap. We talked about making gas pipes strategic, regasifiers: do you want us to repeat what we said about them? We repeat: in Italy we have three regasifiers and there is a request for another six. Of the three existing regasifiers one works, one used only the gas transited for testing - and I speak of the Offshore LNG Tuscany (OLT) of Livorno, which had anyway and who knows why the 50 million that can be taken every year, because we are magnanimous - and the other, that is near Venice, is closed since 2013. And do we make them strategic works? Is this the way to intervene with the resources of the State, of which we are always told that they are limited? Perhaps we should start reviewing the strategic works and understanding that we should do much more? Will it be appropriate to intervene to say that the strategic works are those identified in the objective law approved by the Berlusconi Government and never modified by the successive Governments and that in this decree we say that the works included in the plan are equal reported in the future plans? When do we start doing a critical analysis of these things? When do we start to realize that we have a lot of money and maybe we could spend it better? It is not true that there is no money: there are and there are many, only that we spend them badly. Maybe we should start to understand that we have to spend well? Do we ask you to make spending efficient? Is that what we're asking you? [[Call the president back.]] I will finish now, Mr President, I may speak hours, but I realize that time is limited. We are talking about Naples-Bari and have we written that the Council of Ministers has the power to overcome the negative opinion of the various superintendents? Well, we have given power to the Council of Ministers: the centralization of power is the way in which we move forward in this Italy that must evolve! Shall we continue with the centralization of power? In Italy there was someone who centralized power in a strong, powerful and precise way. It was a long twenty-year period and ended with a war in the end. You want war? If you want war, peaceful, we're here. I don't know if the people who are alone and who are a little pissed off are going to be just as peaceful! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u104	I have a minute to tell you three things. I accuse you of being hypocrites, thieves and liars. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u105	Oh, Senator Airola! I won't let you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u106	AIROLA (M5S). I have the right to talk. Let me talk. Hypocrites because outside this House you all say that Renzi has degraded Parliament and nothing can be issued that is democratically voted by Parliament. Thieves... You rascal! CARDINALI (PD). Get out of here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I won't let you do that, Senator Airola: you can't! AIROLA (M5S). Thieves because you stole democracy from this nation! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] Liars, why don't you ever go on television? [[. (The microphone switches off automatically]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u107	Senator Airola, address your colleagues with fairness, because trust is not a criminal or personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u108	AIROLA (M5S). I say then that the majority that governs in this country is hypocritical, thief and liar. It is hypocritical because outside this House you keep saying that Renzi has defiled, annihilated Parliament and that nothing is coming out of this Parliament. You're thieves because you robbed us... No, Senator Airola, you're not okay, you can't say: you speak in the third person! AIROLA (M5S). I can say what I want! Mr Caleo (PD). You rascal! AIROLA (M5S). You're liars because instead of going on TV to explain to the Italians what's really going on, you look good with this ridiculous government! Mr Caleo (PD). President, if you allow this, I'm leaving. AIROLA (M5S). You're like puppets and you don't admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u109	Senator Airola, if you speak in the third person, you can say what you want; you can't turn directly to colleagues, and right now you can't do that to me. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so. [[Protests from the PD Group at the address of the M5S Group. Senator Lezzi mentions a dance.]] Colleagues, we appreciate the dancing skills, but I invite you to sit down and continue with our work. Colleagues, it is tomorrow that there is a special session! [[Senator Lezzi's protests at the address of the PD Group.]] Senator Lezzi, please! Please, Senator Candiani, enlighten us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u110	Mr President, certainly speaking in this climate makes things very complicated, not because the arguments are not valid, but because we need to go ahead with the right recriminations - and I say this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - even in a correct way. So let's start immediately from the rich dish, what seems so attractive in this case the majority of government. I ask this rhetorically to you, Senators of the Democratic Party: are you satisfied with this trust? Are you satisfied that you have been able to examine only 20-25 per cent of amendments to the Commission and to come to the House without even a mandate to the rapporteur, without having finished the work of the Commission, now suffering the choice of the Government to put yet another question of trust? How many trusts are there now, colleagues? 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bingo! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We're getting there! And we are only at the beginning of November: we are still in front of us a month and just before the end of the year. Well, that's no way to rule. This reminds me a little - let me tell you who the mayor did it - of the provincialism that characterizes certain mayors or who - like the President of the Council, in this case - probably made the mayor be third parties, then going to cut the tapes. It is a provincialism that leads to the insertion in a law, therefore in a primary act, the approval of a scheme of convention. It seems to me to read some of the decisions of the Municipal Council, where a convention is mentioned as an integral part of the act. But this is a law! We are not talking about the decision of a municipal council to carry out a roundabout: here we are talking about a law by which the government today makes you vote - because you will vote for this trust - an extension that is worth tens of billions of euros on concessions given to private individuals! And they are not private anonymous, but private whose first and last names are known. Today on the "Corriere della Sera" - but we could take other newspapers and not take "La Padania", because it would be biased - it is written: More than one million in two dinners. "Here are the funders of the PD" Colleagues, this is what you have become: fundraising, the Americans call it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Scrape the funds off the ground! [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] We read the interview that releases your guru who is raising funds on behalf of President Renzi: Among the most visible names (there will be) Benjamin and Marcello Gavio. Oh, my God, just the same ones you are giving today, with the vote of confidence (which you will give), an extension of the convention that is worth tens of millions of euros, indeed billions! Along with all the others listed here. So, I'm still wondering, what have you become? Is it the People's Party, which merged with the Margaret and founded the PD? Or is it just the longa manus of a lobby, the one of the lenders behind them? That's what you're doing. We are proud to raise the funds still today by making banquets along the streets, going to ask our supporters for the sacrifice! Mr Russo (PD). The diamonds! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). What are you doing with the Mount of the Paschi of Siena? You make the citizens pay! You charge the Italians! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] These are the shames that must lead you to pass under the Presidency by saying 'favorable', 'vote in favour'! That's what you're doing! Let the government tie the Thyssen workers and then take the money from the fireman! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] Shame on you! Hypocrites! This is what is happening in this House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups. Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] You take the money of the banks, those that Serra points to you, saving Monte dei Paschi di Siena, making pay, then, your choices to all citizens, with the cost of the IMU, first, and of the TASI, then! This is what the Democratic Party has become. Shame! Shame on you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Be proud of what you are and be ashamed of what you are doing! This is a great scam and you cannot submit to this yoke, because your dignity is worth more than a thousand euros to stay close to dinner in Renzi! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] You have no dignity anymore! You smuggled it with a check for a thousand euros! This is the shame you must feel! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] We can't stand these things by being silent! How do you defend the Made in Italy that is written in cubic characters in this law? Go and get the money from Nestlé, which will pour mineral water into the glasses of those who will sit for dinner with Renzi, the same multinational that finances, then, those who taroccan the Italian products in the world. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] That's what you do! Finance and let your party be financed by lobby speculators! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] Take, then, the million euros you collect and give it to support and to compensate for the efforts that are making those who have to rise from the flood or natural disasters that have been there in these hours! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] Make this gesture and don't keep it in your pockets! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] And ask yourself why those who give you money do not give them to those who are hungry and are evicted from homes that no longer have because they have been occupied, but give them to you. They give them to you because tomorrow they will present the bill! And the bill will come in the form of the same things that you will approve here, with this confidence! The interests that are paid to the detriment of the citizens, with renewed concessions given to Gavio and all those of the same form of lobby to do their own interests! This is the dignity you have and that brings you in here! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] Shame on you! Let the Senate really be abolished! I also tell those senators who don't even know what Thyssen looks like, having only seen her from afar. Go see what happened in the square the other day! Go there every day and be ashamed in front of what you're doing, abandoning people and taking the money of those who fire! This is what you should feel: a minimum of pride, at least that. What do you do instead? Support banks, support PD funders. But I wonder: what is the inner reason within you? You're getting crushed. In here we know very well that in the secret vote there is a different majority from the one that will pass there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] And I turn to this silent majority: how long do you have to tolerate this? How long do we have to tolerate this? Have a whisper of pride and say "Enough!": we are not in the Senate and in Parliament to do the interests of a lobbyist. We are not in the Senate and in Parliament so that there can be fundraising, as they call it. Once again, I tell you, President, I tell you, senators, what are the ad personam laws? Your own fund-raising guru, Francesco Bonifazi, declares to the "Corriere della Sera": All people who have a great desire to let you know which side you're on. In exchange for what? Bonifazi replies that he is working on a law on lobbying, a tool that allows me to interact with the world of finance without ambiguity. Good God, laws are done before things, laws are not established according to the interest that must be achieved! You have established that you have interests to pursue with lobbyists, and now you are also proposing a law, so that you can do these interests shamelessly! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] And then I also wonder, in view of the request for clarity that we made to the Government and the non-convention that we have in our hands, where - as has already been mentioned - there are dots and asterisks, where it is not even written for how many years it lasts: Undersecretary, but what are you doing on those benches, apart from answering tweets, apart from your silence, apart from your hand leaning on your chin, apart from your silent face? What's he doing? You represent the government? Is he representing Gavio? Are you representing the lobbyists? Who are you representing? This is a shame! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u111	Senator Candiani, the call I made to my colleague previously also applies to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u112	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I ask the government who it represents! Do you represent the interests of the lobbyists? That's what Italian citizens need to know. We don't stand there and say it loudly! No, we will never bend over these realities! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u113	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u114	You put me in a good mood, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u115	Mr President, I will do everything in my power to put you in a good mood.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u116	I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u117	URAS (Misto-SEL). It seems to me that this evening (we already said so this morning) if we sometimes also accepted the positions of the minorities who express themselves civilly, perhaps we would be able to have a more serene and even more productive debate in this House and, above all, we would be able to give an image of ourselves which is not exactly what the reality is. We cannot see with favor senators who start to run against each other, in an aggressive attitude; responses and signs of intolerance from one side to the other, especially when issues are being decided here, Mr President, which relate to the lives of people, to the fate of our national communities and to the prospect of the development of this country. I would have preferred to have reasoned on the merits of this measure and I would have preferred to have had this reasoning of merit accompanied by a thorough analysis of the financial coverage of this measure, which makes water from all sides (all of us know it). We know that it refers to other acts, which are in the hands of the governing body and which will also be adopted after Parliament has delivered its opinion. It is, as usual, a big and composite announcement of things, good intentions and prospects that will hardly happen, rather that they will easily verify the production of tiring litigation for the public structures responsible for the government of the resource put in place by the State. That is the fact, Mr President, and it is paradoxical what is going on in this House, even in silence. I have to say that, Mr President, take care of this and tell President Grasso as well. We make the assessment of the constitutionality of the measures that we must examine on the basis of a blind majority vote, that is, deprived of the duty to make a thorough legal analysis of the legitimacy of the act that we must examine! I have an understanding for the Government and especially for the Undersecretary, who had to declare: let Parliament be quiet, that we will correct the overflowing fact - which is present and is indicated in the report of the General Accounting of the State - by which we approve a provision clearly without financial cover. He says they will correct it, with a decree they are going to adopt, but this measure, with that content, should not be voted on! In fact, the examination pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution requires that the texts which have the censure of the Budget Commission and the General Accounting Office of the State are not voted on and that, if voted, they be subjected to an evaluation and censorship by the Head of State. Unfortunately, we are faced with these events and therefore we do not even need to end the insult: I also say this to colleagues from other political groups. In this case we have every good reason to say to the majority: behave with respect for the Constitution! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5Se Groups of Senators Caliendo and Candiani]] Do not violate the basic rules governing parliamentary work and public action by the Government. Be careful: your precedents will be used by those who accompany you and do so with interest, but not with the interest of those who esteem you, but with the interest of those who intend - because that is its root - to take advantage of the precedents you are making to do worse in this State. We do not all feel the same way: those who voted for the members of the Democratic Party are workers, families, citizens who have a democratic thinking and culture. Others have voted for those who do not always express this thought, tradition and culture. There is a difference between you and those who accompany you, colleagues of the Democratic Party, that you would do well to fully understand. This is a bad coalition! It is a coalition that has no foundation in the country! It is a coalition that, as such, should not govern this Republic at this stage! Since it has been said that you do it out of necessity, you must do it with this spirit. Then stick to the rules, which apply to us, but also apply to you, to the present and especially to the future! Watch out for derogations! Mr President, sometimes you have to feel the authority of the Senate presidency to defend this House. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo, Uras! URAS (Misto-SEL). We have a duty to represent a people who live in a condition of deep discomfort and needs firm institutions, which cannot be put at risk by derogatory behaviour in the examination of measures relevant to the economy and social and civil development of our country. Therefore, the Government - and not only the Government, but also the responsibilities of the parliamentary groups - must be reminded of strict compliance with the rules. It is not enough to come here with a veil approved by the Council of Ministers to submit to us a systematic subversion of those rules. We are faced with a bicameral parliamentary system, which has become monocameral with ratification: on the one hand we vote for confidence after a debate almost always useless, and on the other we ratify the confidence already gained in the branch of Parliament that has previously examined the same measure. This is a system to which the Head of State is mainly called to say no, which is the maximum authority to guarantee the proper application of constitutional rules! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Senators Candiani and Simeoni Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u118	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today it is very painful to express itself on this measure, because basically the instruments of democracy of this strange legislature are strange, because they are simply never respected, and it is the Government, executive power, that decides on the work of Parliament, which should have the legislative power, in an authoritarianism disguised as television goodness. It is a beautiful and good dictatorship and to respond with an explanation of vote to a declaration of war to the citizens, as is this measure, is truly painful. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We thought that there was a modesty towards an ignoble text such as the one initially fired by the Senate, and instead the House returned even worse: centralization of powers, violation of constitutional principles on the relationship with local authorities, but above all violation of fundamental rights in the matter of health, environment and democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] But perhaps it is easier to make the assessment on the contrary, which of these principles can be respected. Well, nobody, does not respect any democratic principle, nothing [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] : devastation of the territory, privatization of the common goods and a Presidency of the Council that brings back to itself any decision taken by other democratic collegial bodies, such as the Conferences of the services or as the authorizations left by the Regions. Why this? In order to make everything not appealable by those who protect these collective interests, therefore not appealable by citizens on territories, citizens who are the only ones who have to claim the right to the environment and health. But what does Matteostaisereno think, that he is in a monarchy? That's what we're wondering. No, because in the post-war period the citizens actually wanted a parliamentary republic and not a monarchy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yeah, but who cares about the citizens? And Matteostaisereno will want to do, as they say in Naples, 'or cock 'cup' to milk because, after this measure, this will be Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u120	Translate, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u121	FACTORS (M5S). The rooster over the garbage, that is the garbage that will become our country with this provision. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, we who have lived and attended the public water committees, we who have fought against nuclear failure, no for incinerators and drilling, and we have proposed alternative and sustainable solutions, some sides of the PD to banish for rights, we have seen them, many to make referendum campaigns. Then I wonder how you can only accept Article 7 on the privatisation of the water system. How do you have the face to accept this shameful measure? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] Your cheap slogans, or rather 80 euros, to deceive the citizens who should throw the 80 euros in your face, who praised Italy as the common good, today they have become "Yes, sir" and "Yes," I trust: I trust the one who, in Articles 33, 34 and 35, derogates from all environmental and health standards, with the justification of removing himself from the infringements imposed by the European Commission for the closure of the waste cycle. And we, to close the waste cycle, what do we do? Do we invent a good measure on aerobic composting, on separate collection? No, we're helping drills and incinerators. Not only that, we create new pockets of business killer like the Bonifiche, whose work will be self-certification, so you can bury, as if it had not already been done, to the good and better toxic waste autereferenziando as reclaimers of excellence; or like the biogas plants, that will produce a pigry, like the digestate from anaerobic process that instead is still combustion, still dioxins, still pollution and devastation. But I don't see the government representative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Undersecretary Del Basso De Caro is distracted, but there is. Pay attention, Mr. Undersecretary. [[Comments of the Undersecretary Del Basso De Caro]] Thank you for your cooperation, Undersecretary, but there is a need to listen to Senator Fattori. FACTORS (M5S). Matthew, Matthew, but how, if Europe asks us to, do you kneel, since they crowned you, while in order to meet the objectives of Europe 2020 that no longer wants to incinerate you make ears as a merchant? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We see a lot of merchants here. What are we gonna do if there's no oil? Because we want to do know-how, the new frontier, environmental experimentation together with the human one of those who unfortunately will live this measure. You can see that you care about the citizens you govern. I'd like to give you some advice: stay at home, not governed, do less damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What is most indignant, however, is the army of Matthew, who for a handful of nominations and votes does not have the courage to raise his head and for a plate of lentils we sell our country and the dignity of our citizens. What do you want us to say? Our vote is what the unanimous vote should be in here, but hypocrisy generates hypocrisy, and this is your gospel according to Matthew. We are voting against it, which is definitely against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[The Senators of the M5S Group raise signs, some of which bear images and the written "Stop drilling" and others a map of Italy with drilling sites.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u122	Colleagues, we remove the signs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u123	[[Protests of Senators Castaldi and Petrocelli.]] Cartels yes, scream no. I can't rip them off, and then one for each and no more.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u124	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u125	Mr President, I shall try to sum up, as far as possible, the many reasons why this measure has no constitutional legality and for which we will certainly not vote for trust. Opening and closing a parenthesis of personal opinion and not of Group, I would like to say that, personally, I would never have voted for the confidence only for Article 38 of the measure, which provides for the undisclosed reopening of authorizations to drillings and oil explorations in the seas and lands of Italy, missing among other things the competence of the Regions. The fact that the competence in the field of energy is of the Regions to date is also evident from the fact that the constitutional reform, voted a few months ago by many of my colleagues in this House, but not by me, explicitly provides for the transfer of this competence directly to the State. This comforts the fact that Article 38 of this decree beyond the merit that I did not share, is also clearly unconstitutional, because the same text denounces its unconstitutionality, anticipating, if ever the reform should go into port, the results of a proposed reform, but certainly not yet approved. Having said that, I refer back to what Senator Uras very appropriately said about the dignity of this House and who must defend it. We have heard from the President of the Budget Committee today a precise condition which this text should fulfil, which is that of the deletion of paragraph 7 of Article 34. And do not tell me that there is no technical time to do so, because this Presidency should have pointed out to the Government that in six days this House has changed a lot more and more important measures that the House has returned to forty-four, if not twenty-four, for the third reading. So do not come and tell us that there were dangers to the decadence of this decree. There is a clear desire not to consider this House, not to take it into proper consideration, and this is also documented by the fact, which has been referred to several times by the previous Members, in relation to the famous concession schemes which the decree provides for to be authorized with its approval. I have some experience of these parliamentary classrooms and I can say that for decades tables, lists and even more detailed things have been attached, if these were put back for approval and closely linked to the adoption of the standard. Here we want to have this Parliament, the Senate, the majority Members who will vote for it, as well as those who will not vote for it, a scheme which is not annexed to the text of the decree and on the substance of which, therefore, the Assembly has not been able to intervene, establishing, for example, a period of years other than that proposed by the Government or even different terms. Here we want to get this Parliament to approve something very unique that, even de minimis to the everyday nature of citizens' relations, is truly incredible: the technical report of this measure does not give the extension of concessions any benefit to public finances. Which means that, since the concession, as we all know, as far as the State is concerned, is like a rent that a private does of one good to others, we go to rent an asset to others without any consideration, because it does not derive any benefit for public finance from this operation. I refer this subject to the reflection of my fellow Members who, unfortunately, are adopting a closed-box measure which has not even had the opportunity to be discussed in the Commission, so much so that it has arrived in this House without rapporteurs and that has seen a debate in this House more about confidence as a whole than about its contents. I therefore wonder why the presidency of the Senate did not intervene to defend the dignity of this Parliamentary House. In fact, he could have done so: he could have imposed on the Government not so much to announce that in paragraph 7 of Article 34 he will provide a corrective decree, but that he had to expunge it and refer the provision back to the House. And when the government comes to tell us that it will provide with a corrective decree, it must tell us how and what the content of this corrective decree will be: it will eliminate the norm, it will establish a cover, a different way of implementing that intention? It is absolutely unbecoming, for this House, what is happening in these days, in these hours and in these minutes: a silent government in the face of the problems that have been raised, which are not only in quantitative terms, but above all moral and qualitative, enormous. We cannot agree to vote on this measure, because there are - I repeat - 100 other reasons why we can say that this measure is invincible. There are financial neutrality clauses which are in no way compatible with our usual investigations into the appropriateness of the coverage of a measure. Unfortunately, we didn't have time. There are 110 million stolen from the development and cohesion funds, which are money from the South of Italy once again transferred to other destinations. There are substitute powers which, Mr President, if they were put by another majority and by another government, we would have regions and municipalities in the streets and perhaps even in the parliamentary classrooms to protest violently. Replacement powers that exclude municipalities and regions and that entrust, within a few weeks, to the central government itself some decisions that are truly incompatible with the interests of the territories. However, there is a final consideration to be made, dear friends. A few meters from here we have the painting of St. Matthew's Vocation: banker, usurer and everything that could be worse, St. Matthew was converted by Jesus Christ. We hope that a Christ will arrive as soon as possible to convert this entrepreneurial Matthew. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u126	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u128	I appeal for you to set a good example, Senator. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u129	SANTANGELO (M5S). No drilling! [[The Senators of the M5S Group display signs, some of which bear images and the writing:...Stop drillings and others a map of Italy with drilling sites.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u130	Put the signs away; one of your colleagues asked for action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u131	Cotti (M5S). (Address to parliamentary assistants who are trying to remove the cartels.) Don't pass here anymore! May I speak, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He will take the floor if his colleagues put the signs away. [[Senators Crimi and Marton go to the chair.]] DI BIAGIO (PI). President, you can't allow these clowns.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u132	I'm gonna call Senators Crimes and Marton back for getting close to being aggressive to my person. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Buccarella goes to the center of the hemicycle, exposing a sign with the inscription "Stop drilling".]] DI BIAGIO (PI). President. - The debate is closed. Let's give the word to the only one who doesn't have the sign. Senator Buccarella, I'm calling you back to order for the first time. Cotti (M5S). Ma'am, will you let me talk to you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Either your group senators put the cartels away or nobody talks. Please, Senator Cotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u133	Mr President, I would just like to point out that earlier, when the salesmen broke in, my computer was thrown on the floor and damaged. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Now, we agree that cartels cannot be displayed, but this barbaric and stupid practice of salesmen who come as criminals to remove a cartel, which they have already seen, perhaps should be reviewed, because it has already happened that someone has been hurt. (Senator Santangelo continues to exhibit the sign with the inscription "Stop drilling" from the benches of the LN-Aut Group).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u134	Enough, Senator Santangelo, especially from the benches of another Group. Definitely Senator Bottici will take care of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u135	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u137	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, we have the web full of videos of pianists who always vote for the absent colleague. You yourself spoke by quoting the Rules of Procedure. Today, on the Democratic Party side, we had pianists looking for an author. I have asked several times for sanctions to be taken, but to date, in the face of countless pianists, not only in this parliamentary term but also in the previous ones, we have zero sanctions. We have seen that the Presidency has used parliamentary assistants with the same vehemence to attack me, who went to the PD benches to give a demonstration, as I have done on other occasions with paper balls. In fact, there are some, more evolved, that use paper balls and go away; others, like PD senators, who put their hand in the hole of the absent colleague's station. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Either name it or shut up. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I would like Parliamentary assistants to be used to discover the senators who use the pianist's practice and, politely - and I conclude - do not tell me, as I have always heard the Presidency say, that it is the task of the Secretary Senators, because to date, in the face of the existing videos, there has been no case of reporting by the Secretary Senators. So, if the secretary senators don't see well, either they go for an eye exam, or we change them. Finally, when I arrived on the first day they gave me this book, which is the Rules of the Senate, but evidently perhaps the Presidency uses a different Rules: the Zanda Rules or the Gospel according to Matthew. Tell us what the real Rules of Procedure are, and we will stick to that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u138	Senator Ciampolillo, every time I've had a chance to locate a pianist, the card has been withdrawn. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). There are sanctions, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not for me, during the Presidency, to issue sanctions. Please, Senator Di Biagio, you have the right to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u139	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I will be very brief and leave the text of my speech to the record. We are considering an important measure, which comes to us after a long iter to the House, where the text has undergone remarkable correctives, but with an imminent deadline: November 11. This element, of course, has polluted the whole debate, because it remains the bitterness of receiving a delayed measure. I also say this as rapporteur for the Environment Commission, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the Commission, in particular Mrs Cantini, rapporteur for the 8th Commission. Unfortunately, this delay has prevented us from having a peaceful and proper debate on the many amending proposals that would have contributed to the further improvement of the text. Today, however, we have an ambitious measure in the objectives set, with measures that affect all the key sectors to accelerate investment, to support the competitiveness and growth of our country. However, we must recognise that more could and should be done, for example, in terms of resources allocated, because the problem of resources in this field is one of the fundamental elements, even if not the only one, which in fact hinders a serious and structural maintenance work, on which Minister Galletti insisted recently. That is why we ask the government not to stop and dare to stop. This is what I do with the honesty of those who want to contribute to the relaunch of our country in a serious and constructive confrontation that is often, unfortunately, lacking in this House and that has not been possible on this occasion either in the Commission or in this House. As part of the majority of government we want to be active interlocutors in this confrontation without ideological preclusions. In this spirit, we reaffirm our support for the Government by continuing, however, to urge it on matters still worthy of attention. In the Commission, we have done, within the limits of the constraints of time, a shared work which has led to the adoption of numerous agendas. I hope that the commitments made will be met with responsibility, the same responsibility that this House continues to show. That same responsibility leads us today to approve this measure in the interest of the country, and it is in this spirit that I declare, therefore, the Group for Italy's vote in favour of the text under consideration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the text of its explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u141	For what? MARTON (M5S). Mr President, on the order of business. I wanted to apologize. I hope I didn't cause you heart damage with my aggression, which you reported. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, I complained more about Senator Crimes overpowering me dangerously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u142	[[Laughter.]] Thank you, by the way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u145	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, the few minutes at my disposal do not allow me to review all the problems that this measure presents. We had tabled amendments to correct the provisions that we do not agree with, on which we have tried to express another point of view. We have also done this by trying to respect very narrow deadlines for tabling amendments both in the Commission and in this House, but we have done a work (as is often the case) which is essentially useless, all frustrated by the imposition of the issue of trust, once again. I would like to focus on a couple of articles of the measure. In the meantime, on Article 35 which, more or less pompously, is classified as urgent measures for the implementation on a national scale of an adequate and integrated system for the management of municipal waste and for achieving - heard, heard - the objectives of separate collection and recycling( .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is what the heading in Article 35 says. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is an unholy article, a blatant attempt to strengthen the hopes of those who, by culture, or by interest, or by mistaken conviction, think that our country needs a waste management system based on heat treatment, incineration, smuggling this for modernization! And this happens just as the pioneer countries of the choices of the incineration of waste are facing the negative repercussions of this misconception modernity, deciding, even, necessary reversals of course. However, they are countries that today are problematically faced with a Europe that provides for more and more separate collection, less and less waste production, less and less waste to be disposed of. It is countries like Denmark (which already plans an exit strategy from incineration, marking the slogan: we must incinerate less and recycle more), Sweden, Norway and Ireland, whose incineration overcapacity is now resounding. In fact, they are forced to import waste from other countries, in order to feed the oven vents, and at increasingly high prices. And this, if it is an advantage for the giver, becomes a problem for those who have to guarantee the return of the investments and the coverage of the costs. The European Union package looks sharply in the opposite direction to what this Government is trying to do, telling us that we must re-use and recycle as much as possible and reduce the intensity of use of resources. This is not only to advance environmental demands, but also to save the role of the European economy, in an international scenario characterized increasingly by the scarcity of primary resources, by the struggle on world markets to find them and by the determination of emerging economies to use resources for themselves and certainly not for the Western world and for us others. In short, recycling to be competitive in the global economy is something we can no longer ignore. What are we gonna do? We give breath and impulse to incineration in a context - that of Article 35 - that wants to make Italy land of conquering patented technologies abroad and major investment programs, instead of making it the protagonist of policies for better use of local resources and to help the regional economies that today are stifled by global competition. The operation underlying Article 35 of the measure is, therefore, contradictory to its aims, to the purposes it declares. What, for example, about that expression which states that incinerators contribute to the development of separate collection and recycling? I say, but how can you write something like that? Even the most ruthless and fierce supporter of incineration will never be able to demonstrate a claim so contrary to logic. There are two other pearls in the text, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to put to you. Firstly, the passage in which it is specified that these installations are necessary to comply with the European directives. The government, in fact, cannot ignore the fact that there is no European directive requiring at least a part of the waste to be sent to incineration. It is good to repeat this: no European directive asks for this. On the other hand, there is the obligation of pre-treatment, which derives from the landfill directive, whose failure to respect Italy under the sword of Damocles of various infringement procedures. So, if by Article 35 the Government intended to say that incinerators serve to comply with this obligation, we are obliged to remember that in Italy, dear colleagues, it takes no less than seven, eight years to realize an incinerator, between preliminary evaluation of sites, design contests, development of the same design, authorization, competitions for the realization, construction, testing and so on. On the other hand, it takes much less to produce cold treatment plants which, in addition to the gift of speed, would maintain and give the system flexibility and adaptability to growing recycling scenarios, which is the real obligation that Europe tells us to pursue. It is true that the extraordinary powers and the derogation procedures provided for in Article 35 are intended to shorten the time limits, but the same thing would also apply to cold treatment plants, if you will allow it, while maintaining the proportion. These installations, which are much more useful and respectful of the directives, are not mentioned in the article. Is he guilty of ignorance or is he a biased propensity? The government has forgotten that there are more flexible, less expensive systems with recovery of materials that are in the sign of sustainability. It is that sustainability that is so much praised by the world of the left, that I do not understand why it is putting potatoes in the eyes so as not to read these things. It is - we repeat - an unholy choice, which does not take into account at all the financial risks associated with this operation, which will present the account on time in seven or eight years' time, as it is already presenting for Germany, the Netherlands and Norway. Only, then, the current Minister of the Environment will no longer have to answer politically. Moreover, Article 38 of the measure, in the name of a valorization of national energy resources, considered of public utility, reveals a scenario of simplification and acceleration of procedures to give impetus to drilling, expelling the Regions with the transfer of the empire of the assessment of environmental impact on the activities on land from the Regions to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. There is a distortion in the protection of the environment and biodiversity compared to the European directives to which reference is made. A few days ago in the 13th Commission, the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) explained to us the results of studies carried out in the Sicilian Channel on the precious biodiversity that insists on its submerged banks, already the subject of concessions for the cultivation of hydrocarbons. We cannot tolerate our extraordinary biodiversity being undermined by drilling. The images of the spilling of millions of tons of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico are still before our eyes, where four years after the event we can still not come out of that accident, the harmful effects of which persist despite the activities of pollution. Imagine what would happen in our Mediterranean, which is a closed sea, if there were only a small part of that spill. We therefore call on the Government, as has already been said in general debate, to refrain from allowing oil and gas research and cultivation permits in the Mediterranean. We would have expected things other than this measure, certainly not a scenario in which within the next four or five years we will see a North filled with incinerators; incinerators that meanwhile will begin to build also in the South for the laughter - this yes - socio-economic rebalancing mentioned in Article 35. Is this how a serious government wants to equalize North and South? By forcing us to suffer the incinerators? By forcing us to undergo drilling in our sea? Are these the infrastructure this government thinks of to equal the South in the North? We would have expected incentive measures for the purification plants of the municipalities; measures for the renovation of water networks and sewerage; we would have imagined prevention of hydrogeological failure, high speed/high capacity. This is infrastructural equalization and not incinerators or drilling! We would have expected the unblocking of the plants useful for recycling and reuse, because the fact that these plants are not built blocks the separate collection and therefore favours landfills, which are often in the hands of illegal activities and the mafia. Well, this measure is yet another act of force with which we want to shut our mouths to all those dissenting voices, which are not only on this side. If democracy still makes sense in Italy, the Government will reflect why it is not synonymous with progress or good governance to go ahead with majority voting. For everything that has been said, the LAG Group will vote against the question of trust raised by the Government. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u148	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the measure we are about to adopt is characterised by complexity in relation to the issues contained in it and their articulation; it is therefore easy to find critical and critical aspects, but also arguments in support of the various articles. I will not go into the measure specifically, because it has already been done extensively in the Commission and in general discussion at today's sitting, but I would like to make two very brief comments. I believe that the scope of this measure should be focused on the positive effects it will have on employment, on the work that everyone is looking forward to. In my opinion, I believe that this is the real concrete objective of this legislative measure, which seeks to bring in our country the possibility of employment for thousands of people and of course the realization of new works, as well as the conclusion of others that citizens have been waiting for years. Therefore, in my opinion, work and services are the two aims of the measure on the agenda. As far as environmental aspects are concerned, I believe that the subject has been dealt with in a balanced way: there is the protection of the territory with concrete actions also for the protection of the landscape and the safety of citizens. Among the positive aspects there is certainly the attempt, among other things, set up for decades, several times announced and until now almost never focused as an objective, to reduce the bureaucratic path in the construction sector. It is true that simplifying paths can create risks, but this is a strong and precise demand of all professions in the sector. Then there is one last aspect that I cannot but emphasize as Senator of the Valle d'Aosta. Some interventions have complained of the lack of funds for development in the deep South, well, I must emphasize a negative aspect regarding the Valle d'Aosta, and therefore the deep North, where, once again, as in at least the last thirty years, funds have been allocated to the Turin-Aosta route equal to zero. I regret to stress this negative aspect, but this is an issue that I would like to highlight and I hope that, even with the Senators of Piedmont, there will be joint action to carry out this battle. Adding the positive and negative aspects of the decree under consideration, I conclude by announcing the favorable vote of the Group For the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u151	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will be very brief: I will use ten minutes and no more. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Northern League Group will not give confidence to its Government and to this measure, which is indeed yet another missed opportunity for the country. Yet another confidence, yet another attempt to silence Parliament: it is an arrogant attitude that mortifies Parliament, that you are capable of doing! This measure does not unlock anything at all. On the contrary, it is yet another announcement that, to the test of the facts, confirms that it is only garbage, and we have seen it today: article 34, paragraph 7, is without cover, and we do not speak of concessions because we stretch a pitiful veil. But you, President Renzi, are certainly a phenomenon of communication, a street embosser (who still sells garbage). A street vendor who, with effective phrases, decanting the virtues of his goods, tries to attract the public by exalting the non-existent qualities of the product, making use of sonant words to give to understand things far from the truth. That is to say, you are an embarrasser: a sort of institutional Vanna Trademarks! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In one thing, however, we recognize their consistency, in having changed course with respect to the Governments that preceded them, those of Monti and Letta (the original sin). But it is a wrong course that still leads us to the destination of those who preceded it: its Government is dragging the country into the abyss exactly as Monti and as Letta! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] According to his proclamations, his government should have turned the country around. Give Italians hope, boost growth and employment, strengthen the economy, as well as implement reforms, review the issue of justice. Lots of promises, all of them missed. He is right, however, President Renzi, when he says that you can't have the iPhone and look for the hole where you put the token. Now we get it! To the Italians a handful of tokens and to the illegals the mobile phones, this you do! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I defined this decree as yet another piece of garbage, and it never seemed more appropriate to me. In this measure, in fact, there is the maintenance of a custom, a constant of all the governments of the left, that is to fill the North with garbage and garbage from other areas. But is it possible that someone's inefficiency and inability should always weigh on others' shoulders? This is administrative racism! You say that with this measure you will unlock the yards - good! - then making the usual long list of works, with a copy and glued by the target law, saying that you will realize them by making available 11 billion euros; yes, 11 billion bales, because for 2015 there are 230 million euros and for the rest it is horse camp, indeed, maybe you should say that the pacifier is dead. Colleagues from the left, I do not want to sound too mischievous, but this measure seems to be the appetizer of the next election campaign; however! You see, President Renzi, in this provision there is a passage that you have managed to shape perfectly what successful work of the theater of the absurd. I would like to address my colleagues on the left who, by definition or praised inclination, show a particular sensitivity to the issue of renewable energies, ecology and environmental protection. You will remember that last September, your Matthew, speaking in New York during the UN Climate Change Conference, had, at times, seemed to be the new leader of the greens, a sort of Orthodox environmentalist, let's say a sort of green guru. I want to quote a few effective phrases. From Matthew's letter to the UN: "Beauty is the word I want to introduce into the climate change debate." Beautiful, too good! Climate change is the challenge of our time. Science says it: there is no time to lose, politics must play its part. That's good. Our children are waiting for the agreement to be binding in Paris in 2015 and for the jobs of the green economy to be real. How can one not agree with these new and enlightened words? Too bad, however, that to the test of the facts - that is in this measure - other than ecological impulse and impulse for the green economy! This is a measure that blocks renewables and unlocks drills: this does. In summary, dear colleagues of a lost left, attack renewables retroactively, thus removing from the country any investment in green technology and innovation, to aim right to drilling, especially at sea, to pull out those few drops of oil that, according to the data of the Ministry of Economic Development itself, would not cover even two months of national oil consumption: a sort of drilling to the Amatrician, let's say so. Indeed, we have not made too many illusions about this measure, in line with government action, failure on the whole front. You are the Government of promises, regularly missed; you are the Government that had to pay the debts of public administration to companies, yes, in words! You are the government of constitutional reforms: certainly, with the Delrio law, which created only a disastrous and devastating political-administrative confusion. You are the government of the reform of the electoral law, certainly an agreement for a few known: perhaps today lunch has gone wrong, it has remained indigestible. You're also the 3 billion-dollar government for schools, but who saw them? Where did you see them? Are you the Labour Reform Government? How? Facilitating dismissal. Abolish that filthy Fornero law, which is better; abolish the Fornero, which is now! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group and Senator Catalfo]] You are then completely bankrupt on the reform of justice. You are the government of the five empty prison decrees; you have freed and released thousands of criminals, drug dealers and rapists. It's a shame. You're the only ones responsible! You are, however, the Government of Solidarity. You're the good guys. We're the bad guys. You are those of Mare nostrum, this monster of the 150,000 landings and of the 3,000 deaths in the Mediterranean: you will answer as Europe will answer, whose hands are stained with blood. What a Nobel Peace Prize! You are the government that invests in illegal immigration, spending 1.2 billion euros on Mare nostrum, while the country asks for more security; a country that asks for answers for young people without a future, who asks to give our elderly serenity after a life of sacrifice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In a country where more and more families live in the anguish of not being able to reach the end of the month, what do you do? Switch from Mare nostrum to Triton: a grip for the shoulders. It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that you can only say that you are a government that has failed. Failed! Your policy is completely enslaved to the will of Europe. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have to make a correction: I made a mistake. At the beginning of my speech, I described President Renzi as an embarrassment, the one who once sold remedies in the streets that was miraculous. Today the word is still in use in the Italian language to indicate magicians, jugglers and, in general, those who sell specific products or other goods to the public, attracting people and enchanting them with plenty of chatter (and in fact in the provision there are ecoballs). But, as I said, I have to correct myself: to define you, Mr Renzi, and your policy is better to use a synonym of a bully. President Renzi, you're a charlatan! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u154	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in a few minutes, we are starting to vote on yet another confidence that this Government puts on a decree-law and a measure. I have to say, it's a constant crescendo now. Let us look at all the measures that are being taken in this House and on which we put our trust. From measure to measure, we are faced with a real reversal of constitutional values, not only for the instrument itself of confidence, which, as we have said and repeated in these days, last week and the week before, completely expropriates Parliament, systematically violating Article 70 of the Constitution. Not only do we continue to produce decree-laws that do not answer at all, but they are in violation of Article 77. Not only is Article 81 of the Constitution violated, as we have heard again today, and you keep it very much every time we have to table some amendments which, in your opinion, do not have the cover. But then put to the vote with confidence a clearly uncovered decree. But, in addition to all this, by decree in decree, by provision in measure, you are leading to a subversion of the values guaranteed by Part I of the Constitution. We voted, you voted for confidence in the delegation for the famous jobs act, with a clear violation not only of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, but also of constitutional articles and, in particular, of Article 1 of the Constitution. You have accompanied trust with strong manners, to repel and punish those workers and workers who were simply protesting, manifesting to defend their jobs. Now, with this decree, the so-called Italy unblocks, which rightly many - the committees, the associations, many citizens - now call the "Rovina Italia", you are subverting other constitutional values. This is what the Renzi Government offers you. [[Senator Scibona displays a sign bearing the inscription "NO TAV". The president waves to remove it and Senator Scibona puts it back]] You, what is the environmental and landscape heritage, which is guaranteed and constitutionally protected by Article 9 of the Constitution, make it available for other purposes. I learned that, at Leopolda, there were two tables: a table on the green economy and a table on the environment (not better identified). I didn't quite understand what the Renzi Government means by green economy and what the Renzi Government means by environment. I didn't understand correctly and I couldn't follow what the results of that table were. I knew someone who coordinated them, but this is a separate speech. So, obviously we can only take for good the idea of green economy that emerges from this decree, unlocks Italy. You are once again choosing to imprint and direct the development of our country always on the same things: on asphalt, on cement, now you have added oil, on incinerators. That would be your concept of green economy. In these hours - you know, Mr President - the prefect of Rome pre-alerted and issued the order for the closure of all schools of every order and rank tomorrow in Rome, in anticipation of a water bomb. But what else has to happen in this country? [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] We had Carrara's flood this morning. Last week we counted; we spoke in this House; we repeated the manphrine of the motion on hydrogeological failure. What else has to happen to change the direction? When do you want to change to this country? [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] Do you or do you not understand that you are taking Italy on a drift from which it will not recover? Do you still want to destroy her? Was it not enough that the beautiful country suffered, constantly raped (abuse, illegal building, devastated territory)? No, now you've made up the drills too. A hundred concessions are waiting, with the single title granted, because the results of Basilicata are not enough. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]] No, you must destroy our seas. You must, in order to do this, take away the powers of the Regions. You must, in order to do this, take away the powers of all the local communities, because they are committees that bother you and they do not understand your modernity. This would be your modernity! Would this be innovation, the innovation to continue with an idea of development that has led us to the point where we are? But I understand you, I know your idea of innovation. You are modern and innovative to suppress rights. It's not by chance that the Leopolda was an old station. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin]] , of the early nineteenth century. Then perhaps I began to understand your idea of modernity and innovation. I have understood, from Renzi's statements, and thanks also to the service of "Report", what is the idea of modern entrepreneurs that you have: those who take away all the work from Italy and bring it to Romania or Transnistria, who continue to exploit and rape animals and people, all for the logic of profit. So you want to reduce our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Orellana and Bocchino]] Your modernity is to beat the workers who defend their jobs. Never against the strong or the caste that, every week, you say you want to fight, to the usual caste. No: give them Article 5, the extension of concessions and, in Article 2, even make a nice paragraph for Bonsignore, for the Orte-Mestre motorway. Keep it up! Many roads, great works, highways, asphalt and oil: this is the recipe for modernity! With the jobs act and the measure under consideration you have clearly decided to place the country not in the third millennium. Once again you have decided to look back. You have decided to look back: you are exactly the opposite of modernity! You have decided that this country must compete on the exploitation of workers, on the elimination of the rights of people, on the elimination of the rights of communities, on the eviction of the environment, on the eviction of our seas. Do you think you have an economic result, drilling the sea? The tourist, fishing and economic activities of those regions that will seek and have tried somehow to try, with good practice, to place their development on a different position will be destroyed! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alì]] Italy thus has no future, because the future of Italy is in beauty, in knowing how to enhance the most beautiful things it has, and not in destroying them. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senators Bignami, Simeoni, Montevecchi and Alicata]] The future of Italy is in its culture, in art, in the environment, in the great works that we must realize in order to save our territory. Because when the water bombs arrive, not only will our children die, but the children of all will die. When climate change continues and you, instead of renewable energies, choose the oil, even filthy, that would be in our seas, you are taking a serious responsibility. And you can no longer continue to hide everyone behind the beautiful words, behind the empty motions, when you then go again to give your vote on this decree, which will once again be a violence for our country and - this yes - an impediment to the future of Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Bignami. Senator De Petris, together with other Senators of the Misto-SEL Group, shows a banner with the inscription "NO TRIV".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u155	I invite you to remove the banner. We should make a nice corridor with all the posters displayed during the various legislative processes, so we can historically reconstruct the various moments that have occurred in this House. (Senator Santangelo displays a sign.) Senator Santangelo, you've already given for today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u157	You have the right to do so. (The Senators Scibona, Paglini and Fattori display signs with the words: "NO TAV". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to remove the signs. They're always the same: they've been around for a while and we've seen them before. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have two requests to make on the order of business. The first is for you, Mr President, who mentioned earlier the violence of Senators Crimes and Marton. I know he was joking, and we all here understand the joke. But since outside the media always exploit everything about the 5 Star Movement, I would ask you to explain exactly that it was a joke and not a real physical aggression.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u158	[[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u159	Senator Bulgarelli, when the microphone is turned on, the scene is also framed, and I think everyone understood very well the moment it took place. Just to continue our work, I invite you not to take excessive positions, only to be able to continue in serenity. However, there was no problem and so we continue in our work. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I had two points to make to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u162	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, I would briefly like to ask you to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Reports of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't object, Senator Mancuso. MANCUSE (NCD). I would just like to make a brief comment. I have seen, both yesterday and today, in this House, that the tones have often turned on. Certainly this measure is so complex that it lends its side to the oppositions to exaggerate and often also to go ahead with slogans and banalizations. The measure contains some very important arguments. The measures adopted by the Government contain strong themes: transparency, bureaucracy, infrastructure interventions, environmental impacts, energy and more. Therefore, it is easy to exaggerate on these issues, which lend their support to radicalization and ideologization, bringing water to their own mill and defending their own thesis. We have seen a series of easy misunderstandings and mystifications. We hear of heterogeneity, omnibus decree, privatization of water, easy drilling, cementification, when we know - and we know it well - that it is sometimes true falsehoods and lies. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bottici]] It therefore seems to me that, on the whole, the measure brings with it a series of measures which are certainly useful to share some areas which, at the moment, mark the stage: public works, construction sites, energy policy, private construction for years in the grip of a torpor that has led to a dangerous stalemate in the economy and employment. I therefore express, on behalf of the New Right Centre, a strong vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u165	[[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Marton]] Colleagues, take it easy. He asked to speak to Senator Martelli who will represent the position of your Group. MARTELLI (M5S). So, our group... [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Mancuso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u166	Senators Santangelo and Mancuso, you're disturbing Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u167	MANCUSE (NCD). They're rude. MARTELLI (M5S). If I don't take my time, I'll let them move on. Our Group will vote against, and will do so both because you have asked for confidence and because of the content of this measure. All the reasons I will give you are contained in the text of the provision, and therefore the accusation of falsehood I send back to those who want to read this stuff. Why not trust? Because we are tired of Mr. Mattew Renzarelli, in Renzi art, who as a dance professional, serial ballist, comes to tell things, but then brings us measures that contain other. Instead, as far as the provision is concerned, we are tired because you too have become so: you do not even have the intellectual honesty to say that this provision sucks but you vote for it, because it is your majority. No, in your speeches you have managed to justify your choices, skilfully circumventing all the filth that I am now going to read. Article 1. You write: AV/AC Napoli-Bari. False. It's either high speed or high capacity. Put 5,297 million on the plate. Well, of these, 2,010 million are the Apice-Orsara variant, 45 kilometers of which 25 in the gallery. Instead of going straight, take a ride to Grottaminerda and you don't understand why. That's 2 billion. Of these 2 billion I will ask you to account later, when you have done the micragnosis for the hydrological failure. In the meantime, let's talk about this point. The justification for this work was given by the administrator of Ferrovie dello Stato, who said that this work will have a positive impact on the community of 683 million. A study by the Politecnico di Milano, and not the usual four lightned, said that instead, it will be negative for 837 million euros. You might say those are biased. Then let's see how the railway administrator said that there is that benefit: he said that the times will be halved. Then, in literature, from the point of view of transport, half the time theoretically corresponds to a doubling of transport capacity. According to the railway administrator, it's four times as much. Well, the prize was that he became the Commissioner, so he can certify that what he said is right. Well: we give 2 billion to do something worthless and we also spend 683 million, which will be extra cost to the community. We move forward with Article 2, the so-called unblocking yards, in which we expect 3890 million thus broken down; 26 in 2014, 231 in 2015, 159 in 2016, 1,073 in 2017, 2,066 in 2018, 148 in 2019 and 2020. Where did this money come from? The big slice comes from the cohesion fund, that famous fund that, when it's time to use it, there's never anything in it, it's empty. On the other hand, for the next few years there are crumbs. What's that for? It's to start something and never finish it. That's the truth. Where did those funds come from? They're coming from the bottom. Go, I mean, get the money from the old works, which you haven't even started, and move them. However, you made yourself beautiful and beautiful by saying that you would make the Piedmontese Pedemontana, which you have never begun, or the High Platform, which also never began. But you take the money out of there. The other time they had to unlock Italy, but it was not done. It's all false in this document. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Go get 600 million from the Italy-Libya Partnership Agreement. Is that agreement still in force? Did you say any when it was done and yet you have not repealed it? All right, go get the money from there. After that you claim that you put 100 million on redevelopment of disused areas, on energy efficiency, on the safety of school buildings, on the production of renewable energy and on the hydrological failure. Yes, a hundred euros per person. According to Renzi there were 3 billion for schools and 2 billion for hydrogeological failure. So let's start to call it hydrological and not hydrogeological failure. The geological breakdown is, in fact, another thing. It is - for example - the situation of the Flegrei Fields, with a super volcano: that is a geological failure, because it was built in a very dangerous place. Another geological failure is the slopes of Vesuvius. Learn things instead of repeating them like a parrot. Anyway, you're talking about 100 million. As far as water is concerned, you deny that you are privatising it. Too bad that to an agenda that decided to keep the property public and the management you responded to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Constitutional Court has cut you off when, in the past, you tried to say that you had to compress the possibility of giving the public, to companies in houses, water management. Now you're doing it again, and I hope the court will cut you off again. You are for private water and, in fact, you have included water in the goods of economic importance on which you can profit. It is written in your decree. PUGLIA (M5S). Shame! Shame on you! MARTELLI (M5S). I challenge you to read the decree and find these things. You should be ashamed! Article 16 is intended to facilitate the entry of individuals into health care and the construction of hospitals. Does a private from Qatar need to build a hospital in Sardinia? All right, he wanted to do it, he did it. But you have told the Region of Sardinia that it can increase by 6% the appropriation for services provided by private individuals. You give him the money, too. He puts the money in it, and you boost it by 6%. Let's go do this! Instead of giving the money to public health, they give themselves to the private. Keep saying the private is better. Well, here are the examples of private management: Monte dei Paschi di Siena, failed [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; Alitalia, failed for the second time, and Telecom Italia, who has so many of those debts that you can't even count them. Instead of drilling for oil, you could burn the money he owes and we'd get the same amount of energy out of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to Article 33 and the Bagnoli-Coroglio Bonifiche, it is stated in the agreement that a programme of urban regeneration, reclamation and safety must be carried out. For you this becomes infrastructure, purifiers and urbanization: a concrete floor. You have also put a private actor, which is related to the competitiveness decree, because in it it was assumed that a private person would want to make reclamations at his own expense. But who's the fool who makes bonifications at his own expense? Here is the fool, to whom you then give the area of Bagnoli-Coroglio, which is a beautiful place. So, it wasn't that stupid. Put the two pieces together, a perfect puzzle comes out. Then we have the incinerators. I'd like you to stop telling the lie that the incinerator doesn't need a dump. Each incinerator has a service dump, where it places 30 percent by mass of the burned which becomes toxic ash and all the filters that need to be placed there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It does not close the waste cycle without landfill. At least study these things and avoid making figures of dots, dots and dots. As far as drilling is concerned, the issue cannot be seen at all. According to the Ministry of Economic Development, we have 55 days of oil reserves that can be exploited in a sensible way. The ENI, which self-identifies its own reserves, because the oil reserves of the companies are self-certification, speaks at most of two years of an oil of bad quality. They themselves say that you can't economically extract all the oil, because it's not a nice bubble where you put a syringe. Have you ever seen the stratigraphy of a deposit? Sometimes it's a few inches thick. To get out of a deposit of 100 million a little oil, you have to do maybe 30 drillings that take from all sides, 30 platforms. You're telling me about Comitatini. I want to see if you can find someone who's happy to have an oil well in the garden. Find her and I'll give you a month's salary. So, if they tell you all over Italy that they don't want drilling, the "comitatino" are all Italian citizens. This measure, then, is not helping Italian citizens, because no citizen wants an oil tower or an incinerator at home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, the incinerators want it. You say, and it is written in black and white, that all incinerators must go to maximum, to saturation of the thermal load. Some might object that there is not enough rejection, but it would be wrong: there are seven million ecoballs, even if we pretend nothing, and I say it for the bells. Have we found a way to ship and burn seven million ecoballs? Congratulations! Instead of opening them, and for this reason there would be a free project created by active citizens of the 5 Star Movement, you have decided to burn them and for this reason you make an incinerator in Salerno. The European Union has told us that Italy is in breach and must close the waste cycle. He never said he was doing an incinerator. He never said that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I feel like I've motivated this quite well. In conclusion, you can prove whether you are in good or bad faith. Instead of pretending nothing, try listening. If you are in good faith, read the text and you will see that what I told you is all contained in there. If you are in bad faith, you can entrust yourself to your Parent Company, or at any rate to the person who makes the explanation of vote, who will say something that will wash your conscience. It's up to you. Prove that you are in good faith and say: Yes, I only vote for it because they ask me, but I do not agree with it. Prove that you're in bad faith and say that you blindly believe that this stuff is good. But then you go to the citizens' house and tell this story. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u170	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, last summer, in a hurry, almost stealthily, the Senate Chamber dismissed the Competitiveness Decree, the approval of which passed medialy unnoticed, because it was obscured by the great debate and trumpet rings that accompanied the adoption at first reading of the constitutional reform. That decree, with its truly ambitious name, was to serve - in the Government's intentions - to give new impetus to our asphyxiating economic situation. The results of that measure were so shrunk that, not even a month after the law of conversion, the Government had to launch a new one, with general aims more or less similar, including the most disparate subjects, all united by the same demagogic and confusing approach. These are the first impressions that arouses the reading of the decree to our examination, the famous unlock Italy. It is yet another omnibus decree, which will certainly not change the fate of our country. We could say that the decree unlocks Italy constitutes the figure of the action farraginosa, inconclusive and mystifying of the Renzi Government. It recalls the satura lanx, the mixed dish of firstfruits destined to the gods of which the etymology of the term "satira" is due. Unfortunately, this measure is not about satire, but should be intended to improve the fate of our fellow citizens' economic and non-economic lives. Recalling the Premier's previous administrative experience, the measure brings us back to those public works programmes or to those decisions of a pregnant budget of ambitious projects and purposes that a mayor makes to delude or ambush its citizens, when it must shore up or grow its consent for purely electoral purposes. We all know that, to those programmes so arrogant and ambitious, they usually correspond to scarce resources, few achievements and many lost dreams. These impressions are not influenced by malicious prejudice, but are based on an objective examination of the various articles and rules introduced by the decree. There can be many examples of this. Think, in fact, of the provisions of Article 1, which provides urgent provisions to unblock the works on the railway axes Bari-Naples and Palermo-Catania-Messina. Of course, these are objectives that can be shared. Similarly, it can be agreed with the appointment of the managing director of Ferrovie dello Stato SpA as commissioner for the above mentioned works. It is good, however, to point out that the two projects (which have already been financed with previous measures), even if implemented quickly, will not solve, if not in part, the problem of the connection between Puglia (especially for the South of the Region), Sicily and the rest of Italy. In other words, these are partial regulatory interventions, which are limited to a modest simplification of administrative procedures, but do not guarantee that those works will restart quickly and will be free from possible and further disputes, as has always been the case in the past. Meanwhile, the works between Foggia and Irpinia have been stopped for a long time and, periodically, the only track of that route becomes unworkable for any minimum weather event. In addition, in the case of railways, the mechanism for the definancing of works not undertaken to support investments in small local rail networks was envisaged in the transition to the Chamber. This is a commendable goal, but there is a doubt: between the high-speed lines and the railways in concession of little less than regional character, who thinks, and how do you think, all the other Italian railway lines that connect the various Italian Regions to Rome and the North? What happens to the Bologna-Lecce Adriatic Line without a high-speed project? What are the fates of the Tyrrhenian and Ionian lines that cross Calabria? And the railway connections between Tyrrhenian and Adriatic in central Italy? These questions are inevitable precisely for the ratio of that decree, that is, to feed public opinion only a few commercial interventions and, then, for the rest, to feed medialy a dream fair destined to vanish as soon as the Italians have found the voidness of the plans of this ephemeral political season. Another unsolved point of the decree is the one concerning interventions for hydrogeological failure. This House has adopted motions on this subject twice. In those motions it was asked to finance an extraordinary plan of interventions for the safety of the national territory. So far, the sums planned are so irrelevant that the problem of failure remains unresolved on the government table. We will see, at the outcome of the Stability Act, how those interventions will be financed. At the moment we can only remain skeptical. It could have had much more meaning than provided for in Article 4 of the decree regarding the unblocking of so-called unfinished works. The innovations introduced by that article, however, do not allow to have great progress in the process of approval and realization of public works. The icing on the cake of Article 4 is represented by paragraph 8-d, concerning the Abruzzo earthquake. In this paragraph, it is expected that the assignees of the C.A.S.E. project. and temporary housing forms shall be subject to payment of the grant fee and ordinary maintenance costs. It should be added that, to the same assignors, the Municipalities will also ask for the repetition of the expenses for heating and sanitary water not because of the real consumption established, but of the surfaces of the houses. This is yet another mockery perpetrated against the citizens of Aquila, who still occupy those housing modules and wait to be able to return to their real homes. A decree called "Unlock Italy," in the case of the earthquake, should perhaps have been concerned with unlocking, speeding up the complicated administrative procedures, which still do not allow to intervene in the historical centers of the seismic zone. A decree unlocking Italy would have had a less timid approach to the times and ways that regulate all the matter of cultural goods, in particular with regard to the management of the monumental and landscape bond. This was not the case: today we still record yet another missed opportunity. Another valuable element (as we say) of the measure is that of the renewal of motorway concessions. It is not by chance that I use the expression'renew', because in Article 5, with a long twist, the Government has created only the objective of renewing concessions for motorways, even with the hypocrite reference to respect for the principles of the European Union. Important concessions of public goods, such as motorways, are renewed without competition, knowing that it is difficult for the European Union to agree to this rule, especially where no consultation process has been undertaken with Brussels in order to overcome Bolkestein. In spite of these doubts, I have tabled an amendment of the same tenor concerning maritime state property concessions. But the government has considered that that difficult path to the renewal of the concessions can only concern the large groups of the highways and not the bathing entrepreneurs, who, perhaps, have varied political ideas and are not winking exclusively to the majority. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] Many of my previous colleagues have spoken of a decree unlocking drills. I would like to point out to this House the confusion of the majority. The House of Deputies and the Senate vote for confidence, simplifying procedures, for the search for hydrocarbons and at the same time the various provincial PDs, along the Adriatic and Ionian, demonstrate against the oil companies. That is the consistency of the majority. I could continue for a long time to list examples of the practical irrelevance of the decree-law on everyday life of the Italians. In this respect, I would like to make one more step about building standards. We could call them real cries, which preach the theme of simplification (in some cases more than justified), but, at the same time, they refer to the unavoidable urban skills of the Regions and municipalities. Who remembers the application of the Berlusconi government's home plan in the Bible times of the Regions? The decree-law emphasizes the objective of the measures for the revival of the real estate market. In this case too, these are palliatives that will not unlock anything. Moreover, it is singular to talk about the real estate market or measures to facilitate housing rentals precisely on the days when it deflates the issue of abusive employment of public housing in our cities. This unsolved contrast photographs the inadequacy of the decree-law and the futility of the policies implemented by the government. I do not go any further with the analytical motivations that lead us to the negative vote. It is enough for everyone to cover the financial measures already taken by everyone. In view of these reasons and the umpteenth vote of confidence requested by the Commission, we cannot fail to reiterate our refusal, our firm opposition. How could we, moreover, say yes to a Government that demagogically adopts decree-laws to unblock Italy and then, with other instruments, paralyzes public administrations, as is happening for local authorities at default risk? [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] The municipalities are in turmoil for the cuts announced for 2015 with the law of stability. The Provinces will send a large part of their staff home and still await a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers last summer. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] At the same time, the expenditure of Ministries and Regions is growing. Faced with this catastrophic picture and with this blatant inefficiency, the vote of confidence is improbable and impossible. For this reason, the FI-PdL XVII Group will strongly express its disagreement. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Barani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u173	Borioli (PD). Mr President, I, too, ask that my explanation of vote be handed over to the record, which, moreover, is spreading adequately to justify the reasons why the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of confidence in this measure. [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] , which will help Italy to resume the path of economic growth, families and businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u174	The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u175	Borioli (PD). In my explanation of vote there will also be a way of seeing the timely refutation of many of the arguments which, legitimately, have been raised during the debate... Paglini (M5S). Have the courage to say it in front of the Italians! Aren't you ashamed? Borioli (PD). ... very often not having, however, reflected in the facts and in the written acts. However, Mr President, I would like to make just two points, and I would like to close my speech quickly. In the course of today's debate... [[Senator Nugnes has two sheets: one with the words: "Stop drilling" and the other with an image of Italy.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u176	Senator Nugnes, please take them off! Then, if there is a risk of a colleague's computer, let us not complain, because we are looking for it. Please, Senator Borioli, continue. Borioli (PD). I would like to address you and the House, Mr President, to remind you that they have been reserved for the members of this House, and in particular for those of my Group, who are epithets such as thieves, liars and hypocrites...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u177	[[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Catalfo and Airola]] CASTALDI (M5S). Bravo! It's true! Borioli (PD). I would like to say, if I may, that many of the Members to whom these insults have been addressed do not come up here like mushrooms: they have behind them, and I am sure you know that, a long path of political commitment in the local institutions, where we stand on the front and face the real problems of people. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Many of us have counted the dead in the face of natural disasters, have rebuilt their communities, have equipped this country with a network of services that are now honorable in the world. [[Senator Paglini's comments. Senator Puglia exposes the two sheets again.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u178	Colleagues, democracy is also knowing how to listen, even what does not like.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u179	Borioli (PD). I don't want to replicate on this ground. Besides, I'm from the street. [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] And I have for thieves, hypocrites and liars, who are forced to do so to survive, even a certain sympathy. I ask, however, that there be respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u180	Senator Puglia, be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u181	Borioli (PD). But I ask that there be respect because we are here to play our role in the service of a country and we would like to do so by taking advantage of the suggestions that can come from oppositions... [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! Borioli (PD). If only you could read some ideas behind the insults that, unfortunately, all too often counterpoint the work of this House. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u182	Senator Pollini! Senator Blondo! Borioli (PD). Someone thought they'd remind us that the government...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u183	[[Comments from the M5S Group. The Senators Puglia and Fattori display signs bearing an image with the words: "Stop drilling".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u184	Senator Paglini, Senator Puglia, I address the same call. Senator Martelli did his speech without anyone interrupting him and the same thing must be done with regard to others. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u185	I just want to say that someone said that this government and the majority who support it are taking the country to the abyss. PUGLIA (M5S). We want to stay in Italy! Borioli (PD). Politics is a beautiful exercise, because it allows you to see reality from different points of view. I, like many others here, have just arrived, but I think I have seen the true story of this country. We found this country in the abyss and we're trying hard to get it out. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] We will, because this country is stronger than insults and lies. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Ironic applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u186	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u187	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1651, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 133 of 12 September 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Get up and go! Don't do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of the senators who have asked to vote first and to whom I have granted it, as usual. These votes shall be contingent. (Senator Secretary proceeds to Senator Casini's call. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, if you've asked to vote first, please sit down. (Senator Puglia sits on the government bench with his hands raised dyed black. Parliamentary assistants push him away). (Senator Secretary picks up the call from senators who asked to vote first.) (Some Senators of the M5S Group are in the cabinet and at the government desks so as not to allow senators access under the Presidency to express their vote.) Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order. (Some Senators of the M5S Group continue to hinder voting operations). Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order for the second time. (Senator Secretary picks up the call from senators who asked to vote first.) Allow entry into the voting lane. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Manconi is drawn by lot.) Colleagues, you are denying the exercise of a constitutional right. You cannot fill the mouth of the Constitution and not respect it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger. Some of the Senators of the M5S Group, with their hands raised and dyed black, sit in the Chamber, near the bench of the Presidency, continuing to prevent the Senators from expressing their vote.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Manconi. SIBILIA, secretary, begins the appeal by calling Senator Manconi. (Several Senators of the M5S Group, failing to comply with the Presidency's invitation, continue to prevent senators from entering under the Presidency to express their vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I call on all those who are preventing the exercise of a right which is regularly recognised by Members to be able to vote in favour or against confidence. [[Senator Taverna's protests.]] CASTALDI (M5S). That's fascism! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, we're gonna be good first, then we're gonna go bad. Let's proceed with the vote, let the caller pass. (Senator Secretary calls Senator Mancuso.) Look at these things happening during periods of democracy that had nothing, my boys! [[Applause from the PD Group]] . (Senator Secretary picks her up. Several Senators of the M5S Group continue to obstruct voting operations by standing under the Presidency). Let the coworkers through! Of course, we will discuss these facts in the Presidency Council. Today we have to vote. Remove those who physically obstruct the vote. [[Senator Gaetti's lively comments]] You have to guarantee entry to the voting lane. (Senator Secretary picks her up.) Colleagues, this isn't working. Allow the entrance. As the game is clear (we suspend the session and we do not take the vote of confidence), I believe that such a thing is not allowed or tolerable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Live comments from Senator Santangelo, who shows his hands dyed black to the Presidency.]] Senator Santangelo, as far as your hands are concerned, everyone looks at their own. There's no point looking at the others. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Senators Quaestors must allow, with parliamentary assistants, entry to the voting lane. [[Repented comments by Senator Gaetti]] There are three quaestors. Where's the third one? (Senator Secretary picks her up.) Let Senator Margiotta through. [[Senator Gaetti's lively comments]] You want to raise all those who sat on the floor? PETROCELLI (M5S). Margiott, don't vote! Forget it! Forget it! (Senator Margiotta cannot express his vote.) GIOVANARDI (NCD). President! But where is the President of the Senate? [[Senator Petrocelli's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I am not going to allow anyone to undergo physical conditioning before the expression of the vote of confidence! [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups]] I suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. and then those who wish to take an anti-democratic attitude will suffer the consequences, and I assure you that those who have done so until now will be reminded in the next Presidency Council. [[Senator Gaetti's comments. The sitting was suspended at 8.17 p.m. and resumed at 8.31 p.m.]] The session is resumed. I would like to make yet another appeal, because I believe that the demonstration has been excessive. I would also remind you that this is a constitutional body: preventing the exercise of the functions of a constitutional body, as well as being against the Rules of Procedure, is also against the penal code. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Airola]] Let's proceed to the call. Otherwise, you will force me to make you vote in a different way, so let's do it anyway. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You choose it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's get her back. (Senator Secretary picks her up. Several Senators of the M5S Group block the passage under the Presidency stand). Please let the senators pass by. Senators quaestors allow passage. (Several Senators of the M5S Group, with their hands raised in black, have access to the space below the bench of the Presidency.) Great. Can they pass or not? That's not possible. (The passage of the senators called to vote continues to be partially hindered by some Senators of the M5S Group). VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Suspend you, Senator Secretary. (Senator Secretary suspends you.) Colleagues, since this method of voting has been introduced experimentally, this evening everyone will respond from their own place. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups]] There's no need for applause. Each person then reaches his place and declares yes, no or abstention from there. [[A lot of senators come back to their place. Comments of Senator Santangelo]] Senator Santangelo, I have to do my job. AIROLA (M5S). There's a hallway, they can go through! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Proceed, Senator Secretary. (Senator Secretary picks her up. Some senators vote from their seats, while others continue to pass under the Presidency. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group at the address of Senators Mineo, Mirabelli, Cows, Pezzopane, Ricchiuti and Sangalli when they vote. At the time of the vote, Senator Scibona replied: "NO TAV!"Applause from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group at Senator Zavoli's address when he votes. Senator Secretary keeps calling you. Exchange of jokes between Senators of M5S and PD Groups]] . There is enough confusion so that the loggia is not involved. Will you please stop it? (At the time of the vote of Senator Astorre, Senator Taverna imitates the sound of a sheep.) Senator Taverna, please. That's the last time, that's enough. [[Senator Moronese's comments at Senator Campanella's address.]] Mr Verducci (PD). These are intimidations! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyone who wants can answer from the place. After that we will read the articles of the penal code concerning these acts. (Senator Secretary calls Senator Cuomo.) MORONESE (M5S). (Applause ironically). Bravo, Cuomo! But what did you do to ask the question about the land of fires? Please! The incinerators in Naples, you tell them! CUOMO (PD). I'll tell him. MARTELLI (M5S). A nice incinerator in Salerno! [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola]] MORONESE (M5S). You're subtracting yourself from your duty to the citizens of Campania! (Senator Secretary calls Senator Gaetti.) GAETTI (M5S). You didn't give me the convention schemes; I've been asking for them for ten hours. You suck! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . (Senator Secretary calls Senator Girotto.) GIROTTO (M5S). I'm sorry, but I'm busy buying shares in British Petroleum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . The Senator Secretary calls Senator Lezzi, who addresses the Senators of the PD). Mr Lezzi (M5S). You're crazy, you're schizophrenic! [[Reply from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi! I also call Senator Lezzi back. (Senator Secretary calls Senator Blundo to appeal, who is sitting on government benches.) BLUNDO (M5S). Not to this mess! (Senator Blondo displays a sign with the words "Stop drilling" in it.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Caridi, Casini, Cassana, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Fornaro, Fornaro, Franjoni, Franjou, Franjou, Franjou The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bignami, Bignami, Blunddo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Bell, Bernini, Bernini, Bernini, Berta, Bignami, Bignami, Blund, Bocchini, Botti, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappellett, Carraro, Casalet, Castaletto, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolini, Ciampolilli, Cioffiffi, Council, Conti, Cotti, Cotti, Crimi D'Ambrosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambros, D'Ambros, D'Ambri D's, D's D' Crimi D's D' Alì D' Alì, D'Alì, D'Alì, D'Amber, D'Ambros, D'Ambros, D'Ambros, D'Amros, D's D's D's D's D'Abrio, D's D'Amrosio, Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Readful D'A, Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Read Readful D's D'A, D', D', D'A, D'A, D', D', D', D', D', D', Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, D', Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp, D', D's D', D', Capp Capp, Capp, Capp, Capp Capp Capp Capp Capp, D', Capp D's D', D', D', D', D', Read Read Read Read D', I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). In the meantime, I would like to remind myself, above all, of Article 289 of the penal code: Attention against constitutional bodies and regional assemblies. - It is punished with imprisonment not less than ten years, if it is not a more serious crime, anyone who commits a fact intended to prevent, in whole or in part, even temporarily (...) 2) to legislative assemblies or to one of them, or to the Constitutional Court (...), the exercise of their functions. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I recall, for the measures that will be referred to the Presidency Council, the Senators Santangelo, Puglia, Taverna, Airola, Catalfo, Bulgarelli, Fattori, Castaldi, Moronese and Paglini. CASTALDI (M5S). I'm proud to be on that list! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Does he also read us the article that puts the "mazzettari" in jail? [[Senator Santangelo's lively comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, the codes aren't enough to call them back! You also have to read and respect them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Then, look, don't worry, because we'll finish our work. CRIMI (M5S). Like the Regulations. [[Comments by Senators Catalfo and Gaetti.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1651, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 133 September 12, 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 268 Senators voting 267 Majority 134 Favorable 157 Contrari 110]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] It therefore precludes the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles and all the amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 133.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u189	Senator Cioffi, for what? Be really short, given the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u190	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, forgive me, I would just like to say one thing. I played rugby, and when you play rugby the team is everything, because everyone can't act except with the others. You have named nine senators of our Group and I would like you to add not only mine but also others to the list. I personally denounce myself and want my name to be with that of my comrades, and I believe that all members of the Group want it. I would therefore ask you to include the names of all members of the 5 Star Movement Group in the list of names to be discussed in the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u191	Thank you, Senator Cioffi, but the President did not see any behaviour that could be seen on the list.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u192	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-347.ana.u193	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.22.
