ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 27 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u6	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who listen to us from outside, on Thursday 27 February 2014 the Prefect Fulvio Sodano (the Prefect of the People) died (this is how he is known). I want to remember his figure, his struggle, his human and civil path. Fulvio Sodano was prefect of Trapani from 2000 to 2003. In Trapani, his commitment focused mainly on the property confiscated from the Mafia, so much so that he had the "Carta degli impresi libera terra Trapani" signed, an act aimed at speeding up the confiscation procedures of Mafia assets and to have a tangible impact on the impoverishment of Mafia heritage. There were several beatings suffered by the people's prefect. I only remember a few of them. In 2003, during one of the Berlusconi Governments, he was transferred from Trapani to Agrigento. An unmotivated and unsolicited transfer from him, which aggravated the course of the very serious illness from which he was afflicted. In 2005, the then mayor of Trapani denied him honorary citizenship, disregarding the unanimous opinion of the City Council and the thousands of citizens who had requested it. Only a few months ago the municipality of Trapani tried to make up for it in a gross way, proposing to Sodano the honorary citizenship, but by now it was too late. For too long the institutions had been deaf and inert to the demands of so many free citizens. Sodano refused this hypocritical and late honor, declaring that he was already an honorary citizen thanks to the citizens, and certainly not to the institutions. Quoting a letter from him, the prefect of the people said: I analyzed the beatings suffered, the isolation in critical moments by those who by logic of power did not support me and it was then that I understood that the State was not always on the side of the State. These paradoxical events are to be traced back to the activity "scomoda" that the Prefect Sodano carried out in Trapani, trying to save from failure a property confiscated to the mob boss Vincenzo Virga: the Calcestruzzi Ericina. After the confiscation, Prefect Sodano fought to save this good symbol of the serious struggle against the Mafia. For this fight he was accused by some local and national politicians even of aiding. Here is the paradox: a man of state who has worked with all his strength to save a good stolen from the mafia, who produces goods not contaminated by political interference, Masonic and Mafia and who gives work to so many honest citizens, rather than being supported, encouraged and helped in his work has been hindered and opposed in every way by the State itself. Fake masked promotions are transfers. This is the weapon that the state too often uses to mortify some of its best men. It happened in 2003 with Prefect Sodano, and it happened a few months ago to another man of state, Giuseppe Linares. This is a story that I have experienced firsthand as a citizen, and it is a story that hurts me very much. Who sits in these benches and is like me from Trapani, knows who the Prefect Sodano spoke of. A man who was forced to defend himself from the state he was trying to protect. I want to close by quoting from the very recent words of the People's Prefect: "Let us unite without fear of being overwhelmed, let us show that we do not give in, let us not be afraid, and let us kneel down that part of our State which unfortunately chose to be absent, to promote corruption by showing itself at times strong with the needy and weak and condescending with strong and hidden powers, openly complicit in wicked projects that are offered to us as excellent at any cost, thus mortifying human intelligence. Let's just say once and for all to all those excellent combinations between mafia politicians and bureaucrats, let's expose them and call them by name. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a greeting cannot fail to go to the wife and son of the prefect of the people. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u7	The Presidency supports the remembrance and greeting that you have wished to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u10	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to make a personal statement. Yesterday I was urged to clarify my position within the 5 Star Movement. Even though I resigned as a senator, I continue to be part of the Movement. This is because I believe in his ideals and I want to continue to contribute. If I didn't, I would've joined the Mixed Group. Maybe I'd keep my paycheck. No, thank you. I'm here to do something else. I'm here because Beppe Grillo touched the ropes of my civil conscience and rekindled my love for a participatory policy, transparent, without conflicts of interest. I'm here because Grillo called me to be part of a peace revolution. Beppe has provocative language, but his is a message of positive change. For me, this message has nothing to do with the summary process I witnessed the other day. [[Applause from the senators, Casaletto, Fucksia, Bignami and Bocchino.]] Our Rules of Procedure provide for expulsion for those who do not comply with the rules: we do not discuss this. The reasons for my resignation are others. First, the expulsion was managed in a summary manner, without respecting our internal rules. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Secondly, if one of us wants to speak in the assembly, it must be able to do so freely, without others preventing it from being accused and assaulted verbally. Beppe Grillo, in his political statement No 45, states that every Member is free to speak without asking permission from any Baston Leader. This freedom is the force of the Movement; it is the force that pushes so many of us to work in the Commissions, seriously and without clamor, carrying out projects for the Country through the continuous confrontation on concrete problems, to seek positive solutions. This is the real face of the Movement for me. Without this concrete commitment, only the slogans remain. If verbal violence is added, we end up hindering the change that we are trying to achieve. I commit myself to giving the best of myself and I wonder: what example am I setting? What example do I want to give to whom, after me, will continue my work? They told me that I'm here to be a politician, that I don't have to put my soul or conscience in it: here we are at war. But I wonder: how do we do things without love, without putting our own, without being in tune with our conscience? [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u11	Senator Maurizio Romani, excuse me for interrupting, but this is not an intervention on the order of business, so it is to be done at the end of the session. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Perfect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These events are internal to the Movement [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and do not concern the Presidency. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u12	Colleagues, I would not like to interrupt this applause, but I must apologize for giving the floor to Senator Maurizio Romani: I should have waited until the end of the sitting. And I apologize also because, in view of the memory made by Senator Santangelo, only now I add that a few seconds of remembrance is right to dedicate it to the figure of the prefect. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House to observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1254. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u14	Mr President, I shall be brief. Yesterday, in this House, and before, in the 7th Commission, there was a very good debate, which showed that public school, teachers, school staff are at the heart of all policy. I really want to wish the new Minister good work. I believe that with this decree-law we have solved a bureaucratic mess, which we ask you never to see again. The good work done in Commissions 5a and 7a also led to the positive outcome, which I hope will be confirmed by this House with the vote, of another unfortunate situation, which concerned the ATA staff who are carrying out additional tasks and for them are entitled to be adequately paid. The appeal we make to the government is to take on the commitment to refinance the Fund for the improvement of the training offer, because the quality of teaching in our school is realized if there are resources: there is little to do. I thank and wish all of us good work that we must now vote on the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u15	I call the representative of the Government, the Minister of Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, to whom my greetings and my good wishes go, given his debut today in the new robe here in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you. I am very sorry that I was unable to see the debate that took place yesterday on this decree, which, as Senator Puglisi said, I thank for the work she has done as rapporteur together with President Marcucci and all my colleagues from the 7th Commission, has political, as well as technical and administrative value. For my part I would like to comment on and explain the procedures that we are following and which also justify, I hope, the positive vote in this House on this decree, but I would also like to concentrate on a political motivation which, starting from this decree, I believe is necessary to highlight very clearly and with a lot of intellectual honesty, and also with a shred of courage from the Government, I hope accompanied by the same attitude from the House. They are well aware that the 7th Commission has examined draft law No 1254, which contains provisions on two specific points already mentioned, namely temporary and urgent measures concerning two instruments for the benefit of school staff, i.e. wage automation and their extension. These are two specific issues within this macro-Chapter: the shots, precisely, of the teaching staff and of the administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (ATA) and the economic positions of the same ATA staff. It has been said, and I cannot hide it, because so I too classify it, at least in my vision of these first days of awareness of the many open themes that lie at the head of the Ministry of Education, which is a mess, which lies at the root of this issue addressed by the decree. In summary, the wage increases linked to this automatic shift, which is one of the salary steps for seniority and which are due, according to current legislation, in the transition to a higher wage class, had been blocked by the 2010 Finance Act for the years 2010 and to follow 2011 and 2012. The decree of the President of the Republic n. 122 of 2013 had then extended the same block to the current year, precisely 2013 therefore it is four years of wage blockade, but the original legislation, primary provided for the possibility, after trade union agreement, to unblock, for the class of the school, this type of measure. Since this agreement has been, and in the light of the existing legislation as a whole, we have a picture that you know and that I summarize: two years already covered and related paid shots, that are those for the years 2010 and 2011; 2012, that is now covered with the negotiating session that we are discussing at the Senate with this decree in conversion; the block of 2013, that the union forces ask to unblock, with funds hopefully different from those that constitute, I would say, the lung for the activities of Improvement of the formative offer, since important that they put aside at this moment, but that we must take seriously for a final evaluation of the political type; 2014 instead is not interested in any blockage at this time. The coverage envisaged for the recovery of salary shots has been conceived in the way you know and that I summarize: 120 million euros on the Fund of Article 64 of Decree-Law No 112 of 2008 and 380 million (at regime, of course) on the Fund for the improvement of the training offer. I would remind you that the latter is a fund that in 2009, although I was able to rebuild, had a 1 400 million in surplus, while this year it has about 900 million; it is obvious that, if reduced by 380 million (just do a trivial subtraction), it will become a modest figure compared to the many other requirements, which are at least as important as those underlying the measure we are taking. The second point - and I conclude with the technical and administrative narration - concerns the economic positions of administrative, technical and auxiliary staff. In this case, the amendment approved to the Senate would allow to recognize to this particular category, important for the performance of the school as much as the teaching (let's remember with objectivity), as already perceived in the school years that I mentioned (from 2011 to 2013). It will therefore avoid the return of about 100 euros per month, which on very modest salaries - and in any case absolutely - would be a forcing and a very penalizing measure. The burden in this case is €38.87 million (about €40 million) and its coverage is based on the Fund referred to in Law No 440 of 1997; these are equally important resources, because they concern the training of teaching staff, which is another neglected and neglected chapter over the years. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has had some moments of suffering in the debate in the Commission, and I believe that this is understandable. From some political forces, in particular from the 5 Star Movement, it was asked to reach the coverage of these two chapters from other funds. I believe that at this stage the measure must necessarily be approved under these conditions, provided that there is - I am the one to say it and I, I say it publicly, to have immediately raised awareness of the President of the Council and the Minister of Economy Pietro Carlo Padoan on this point - a formal commitment of the Government to return these funds. This is not to plug a hole or, better, a lack in the MOF fund and in the fund for teacher training, but rather to give a first real signal of reversal of a political trend that over the years, for various and complex reasons that I am not quoting (I may add also for never having put the topic of education and school at the center of the political agenda), has perpetuated itself. We've all seen that we've dealt with these issues, in my case, on the other side of the desk. I say to you, therefore, with great serenity that, if this were not to happen, it would be a very, very complicated political problem for me: I take responsibility for the statement I am making. A government that puts school at the centre of political action must assume the political and therefore administrative responsibility to give the school those resources that specifically serve to improve the training offer and to train teachers to the right extent. So my request - and I conclude - is to vote positively on the decree, aware that it represents a step forward in the present, but that it would certainly be an incomplete step and not consistent with the political agenda of this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group, FI-PdL XVII Legislature and PI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u17	I inform you that the Presidency has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the Annex to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u18	Mr President, I have tabled amendment 1,100 to the draft law under consideration, at the same time as tabling an agenda to the law converting the so-called'multi-pronge' decree, in which the Government committed itself to act urgently (in cooperation with Parliament, if this is possible only through legislative acts) measures to ensure the extension of contracts of former socially useful workers (LSU). The law of stability for 2014, article 1, paragraph 748, in order to resolve at least temporarily the serious employment problems related to the management of cleaning and auxiliary services in schools, which involve - I remember - about 24,000 workers, has authorized until 28 February 2014 the purchase of cleaning and auxiliary services, thus guaranteeing the job to the aforementioned workers, under extended regime. In the same paragraph it was expected that by 31 January 2014, the Government would activate a table of comparison between the administrations concerned, the local authorities and the representative organizations of the workers, in order to find a definitive solution to the employment problems. I am addressing the new Minister in particular: this was not the case, because nothing has happened since then. In order to prevent the already low salary of these 24,000 workers from getting half, reaching about 400 euros per month, I have therefore tabled this amendment extending the contracts of the former LSU from 28 February to 31 March this year. Given, however, that the Government, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 28 February last, approved a new decree-law on local authorities and Rome Capital, that this also applies to services for the school, introducing the same extension that I proposed, withdraw the amendment, but I ask the Minister here that this time that extension really serves to activate a table that leads us to the solution of this problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u19	Mr President, I apologise for not being timely in the request for an explanation of amendment 1.13. The Government and the rapporteurs gave an opinion against this amendment in the Commission and, when it was examined in the 5th Budget Commission, it was included as one of the amendments requiring a technical report. The technical report on coverage, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, must be submitted by the Government. Since the amendment proposes an alternative to the coverage provided for by the measure, which draws from the Fund for the improvement of the training offer and therefore in fact penalises the resources already available to the school, in order to remedy a situation which has depended on a vulnus, i.e. a regulatory vacuum that has been filled in a sudden way, I ask the Government if, if I turn the amendment into an agenda, it would be prepared to accept it as a recommendation, so that, if the technical report made by the Government considers the coverage proposed in it feasible, thus showing that one can go in that direction, there is already an agenda accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u20	Mr President, I rise to explain the amendments 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5 to my first signature: they are cascade amendments, which are at the heart of the problem of covering the decree. The first two amendments use, in fact, a cover based on funds totally external to the MIUR and therefore essentially on capital gain, while the other two use the so-called 30% fund, provided for by the famous article 64, paragraph 9, of the law 6 August 2008, n.133: the savings of the so-called Gelmini reform. These amendments are at the heart of the problem, which Mr Giannini mentioned a moment ago. I would like to say one thing: this measure is absolutely necessary, because it stems from what the Minister himself described as a real mess that the previous Government has combined and that of course it is sacrosanct to resolve. We owe it to all the school workers who had been deprived of their fundamental right, such as stipends of old age. I remember that these workers have no career prospects outside of these shots. It is therefore absolutely necessary, but the problem of cover is extremely serious. In the speech I made in this House before President Renzi, in response to his policy lines, I presented him with two challenges, one of which is exactly what we are discussing now, namely finding alternative resources for such an important measure that affects so many knowledge workers. I regret to say this, but we were told in the Commission that this cover could not be touched, because it was found weeks and months ago by the old government. Well, for this very reason, I believe that it was the duty of the new Government to stop for a moment and think about what alternative coverage could be, taking inspiration from these amendments, especially the proposals that use as a cover for this 30% fund. It was basically a missed opportunity. I understand that the government is now committed to finding the resources, but I would point out that the fact that MOF funds are being cut will mean that, during this school year and in part in the following year, we would still have a decline in additional training offers, recovery courses and instrumental functions. This is essentially, in my view, a missed opportunity on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u21	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. In accordance with the provisions already laid down by the 7th Commission in the course of its examination in the referee, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.18 and 1.22 (text 2). It also states that amendments 1,101 and 1.0,100 cannot be proposed because they contain provisions outside the scope of the measure. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u22	I call on the proposers to withdraw, otherwise I am against it, on Amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4 and 1. 5, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Invitation to withdraw, or the opinion is also against, Amendments 1.9, 1.10, 1.11 and 1.12. With regard to the proposal to turn into an agenda amendment 1,13, tabled by Senator Montevecchi, I turn to the Government. Amendments 1.16 to 1.15 are impervious, given the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, and, in any case, the opinion is opposed. With reference to agenda G1,100, I call on the proposers to withdraw it and join the Commission's G100 agenda, which calls on the Government to make a commitment to restore MOF funds. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of its adoption as a recommendation. The opinion was in favour of amendment 1.0.5 (text 4) and on agendas G100 and G1.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u23	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to amendment 1.13, if turned into an agenda, the Government is ready to accept it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u24	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u25	In view of the 5th Commission's opinion in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11 and 1.12 are impervious. Amendments 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8 are unacceptable. Senator Montevecchi, the Government is prepared to accept the agenda G1.13 as a recommendation. Do you accept the proposal? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G1.13 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.23 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1,18, 1,22 (text 2) and 1,101 are unacceptable. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.16, 1.19, 1.20, 1.17 and 1.15 are impervious. Amendment 1,100 has been withdrawn. Does Senator Bocchino accept the proposal made by the rapporteur with regard to the agenda G1,100? BOCCHINO (Mixed). The G1100 agenda is now virtually the same as the Commission's G100, so I withdraw it and come back to it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Serra, the Government is prepared to accept the agenda G1.101 as a recommendation. SERRA (M5S). All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.5 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u28	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u29	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.5 (text 4) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1254 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.0.100 is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u32	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, with the measure being voted on, the Ministry of Education has tried to tap into a situation which would otherwise have led to the request of all teachers and ATA staff of the school for a return of at least EUR 150 per month for the recovery of the shots. Thus, the Ministry of Education, University and Research had to cope, with its own funds (which were intended for schools and the improvement and enhancement of the training offer), with an emergency in order to avoid the recovery of resources from workers' pockets. [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, Mr President, but it is difficult to speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, there are senators who even speak alongside the speaker. That seems very disrespectful to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u34	Please, Senator Dalla Zuanna, resume your speech. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). As mentioned above, these resources have been identified in the Training Improvement Fund (MOF). In some ways, it is a sort of round game or, better to say, the transfer of resources given for a general improvement of the school towards something that becomes a current game. Now, however, it is necessary and indispensable to gradually re-integrate the school fund and improve the provision of training and to ensure the resources necessary for the smooth functioning of the school system as a whole. The fund initially, in 2009, was EUR 1.4 billion, but following subsequent cuts it is now about EUR 1,030 million. With this additional cut, which will be EUR 380 million under the scheme, the fund would reach approximately EUR 650 million per year. It is clear, therefore, that a continuous reduction in the resources allocated to school, even if for other important purposes, is in danger of jeopardising any school policy in the long term. Therefore, this kind of measure, which we will vote in favour of, is not in line with the policy statements that President Renzi made a few days ago in this House. So we will vote in favour, but we ask the Minister of Education, first and foremost, and the Government as a whole to take charge of the matter, possibly by reintegrating the fund and, in particular, by devoting some of the resources recovered with the spending review to school policy. [[Applause from Senator Elena Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u35	I take this opportunity to greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico e della comunicazione (Sacred Heart) in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u38	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert today is due to a special negotiating session, initiated by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, the recognition of the year 2012, for the purpose of the salary progression of the staff of the school, teacher, education and ATA, clearly waiting for the conclusion of the session and the blocking of the measures for the recovery of payments already made from 1 January 2013. The government, that is, in the more than the conclusion of the negotiation session of the staff of the school, allows the payment of the economic treatment already defined in the year 2013, because of the acquired new salary class, in order to avoid that the sums paid in the period between the expiration of the old economic agreements and the conclusion of the new agreements must be returned. This is a concrete answer, certainly necessary, but partial, which, moreover, does not provide any structural solution for the economic positions of the ATA staff and not even any allocation of resources necessary to avoid the levy in the Fund for the improvement of the training supply. Too often, for the truth, we forget that school institutions play a fundamental role in the formation of future generations and that, therefore, we must give back full dignity to the school, considering it as a founding element, at the vanguard and competitive. In other words, we must not remember the problems that have been open for years only in the event of the emergency to be faced. More certainty must be given on all remuneration aspects of staff. We hope, therefore, that a new season of discussion and contract will be opened in which new criteria of career progression are defined for the staff of the school, announcing the favorable vote of the Per l'Italia Group. In conclusion, I should like to express my warmest and most affectionate wishes to the new Minister, in the certainty that he will be able to give us excellent results and will be of great benefit to the development of the school. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u41	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that this is an urgent and necessary measure to remedy a macroscopic error: asking teachers back about EUR 150 a month would have been too important a problem, so it would have laughed at us all over the world. In my opinion, this step is also important in order to restore dignity to the operators of the school sector, who risked being relegated once again to the bottom of a European ranking. A problem of this kind is, however, faced with a solution that we do not like very much, because funds are used to improve the training offer: that is, they take away resources dedicated to improving the training and information provision of teachers. We do not like it, because those funds are used to reward and not to buffer; we do not like it, because it does not give the idea of programming, but it reflects once again the idea that we must proceed in this direction because there would be no other solution; we do not like it because, once again, the meritocracy fails. Finally, we do not like it because, despite the fact that we have to vote on it, after the slogans which have lasted minutes and minutes in this House by the President-in-Office of the Council who spoke of school as a priority of his government, or rather of school as a priority of his, after so many slogans, I repeat, we would like to see from this Government - which is nothing but the continuation of the previous one (at least among us, let us not tell it) - concrete facts, because in a year of concrete facts about school we have seen very few of them. Mr Minister, we are not interested in the promises made by Happy Days by the President-in-Office of the Council. However, we believe that the President-in-Office of the Council did the right thing, namely the choice of a minister who knows the subject and who knows it well: she was an objective senator with us in the Commission for a year, and even when the government presented measures that went against the school sector, she was critical and said what was actually needed to be said. This, in our opinion, is a good starting point. So for now we are promoting the Minister but not the Happy Days jokes made in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Since this is a moment of hope, we ask the Minister that our students should be able to study in non-familiar school buildings. In this regard, we will stand by you in the battle because all our mayors have been saying this for years; we are asking for a more modern school, a more European school; we are asking for the teaching of certain subjects to be established or restored. Let us think, for example, of four subjects. Meanwhile, I am referring to civic education and the history of art, because in a nation like ours the history of art should be daily bread. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Minister Franceschini is filling his mouth right now because yet another wall has collapsed in Pompeii, but we don't have people to put on this site, people who may understand what is going on with our cultural heritage. Then we think about the teaching of music, which is spoken of throughout Europe, because it is considered an art, or the motor literacy, of which we have been talking for a year: Minister Delrio, at the time, when he was involved in sports, and his predecessor, even then, spoke and filled his mouth, giving hope to the boys who carry on this project, but we are still at the starting point. We would like to discuss the abolition of the legal value of the title of study, because for us it is an important starting point and a meritocracy. At a time when not all schools are equal, if I study in a valid school, I do not want to be compared to a colleague of mine who is studying in a B-grade school; so, again, we need to talk about the abolition of the legal value of the degree. With reference to the abolition of the entry test at the university, it is true that we do not talk about school, but always and in any case of a formative path: even in that case, abolishing the entry test at the university, according to us, allows young people and society to grow. It's not answering the question: What color was Napoleon's white horse?It is that a student becomes a good doctor. A student eventually becomes a good doctor if in his training course he studied, engaged and has a passion for that discipline. We want regional competitions for teachers, because it is unthinkable that one from Sicily will go to teach in Veneto or that, when he wins the competition in Veneto, then he will return to Sicily and that place will be discovered. We want to talk about bridge classes (also in this case, we say it forcefully), because it is unthinkable that there are entire classes that are pulled back by students who do not even know Italian. We then create bridge classes to ensure that these students get in order and at the same level as the Italians, know at least the base, and then leave and do it all on par. We want a solution, Minister, for the emergency that is currently linked to CONSIP contracts for non-teaching staff. We have seen that you have already taken care of it, which we deserve, because it is a huge emergency that we are living in many in our territories, and it is linked not only to the cleaning of schools, but also to their safety. In my city - I come from Pavia - there was a popular uprising by the parents: in 400 they paraded the main street with the children, because right now there is no safety in the schools and teachers cannot even go away to go to the bathroom because they risk leaving the classes uncovered. This certainly happens because of a mistake, but it must be healed as soon as possible, in our opinion. As you can see, Madam Minister, from our point of view, this is not a slogan - all kinds of slogans could be coined here - but a genuine and sincere project to relaunch the school. If you want to confront us, you will find us available, because for us the school is a serious thing, and it is important to have a serious school. The promises of the week of carnival, made during the past week, are not enough, but we want work and commitment and we want a Minister to come to the Commission, to confront this House - perhaps even on proposals that he does not agree with - and to sit around a table, in order to arrive at a solution. In conclusion, Madam Minister, logically announcing the favorable vote of the League Group, as I have already anticipated, I stress that, in our opinion, this sector requires passion, dedication and respect for the work of those who work daily to give a future to our children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Liuzzi and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u44	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the impoverishment of the last years of school, research, university and high artistic and musical training has accompanied the economic and democratic decline of our country, weakening the national system of education, training and research and greatly accentuating the gap between North and South. We have talked a lot about this in recent months: work, in all areas of knowledge, has deteriorated in terms of wages and rights. The Government, with this decree, prevents a forceful withdrawal, but we do not hide that we have much perplexity about the postponement to a separate negotiation and a separate negotiating session for the recovery of the shots. We welcome the commitment that Minister Giannini has made to finding more resources and more public funding for public education, not only those needed for wage cuts but resources to overcome precariousness. Italy is a country where teachers over 50 are still precarious, have fixed-term contracts, remain without salary from June to September: adults, precarious with family, with children students and no social and economic security in front. In recent years we have witnessed the cancellation of at least 180,000 jobs, which have been lost forever. To give back dignity to teachers, an expression that is more than acceptable, means to achieve the stabilization of the many, too many precarious who make the school live; it means to identify clear rules of access to teaching; it means to heal the diversified and difficult situations that have been created in recent years. I am thinking of SSIS, TFA and PAS, systems that have produced the war between precarious people, a real war between the poor and that are costing so much to individuals, the state and the credibility of the public system. It means increasing resources, but we need numbers, funding and radical choices. We are told that we have to change our direction. Well, this is a good time to prove it. Hijack resources from great works, unproductive expenses, military expenses to elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, research and university. Now the government can change to budget chapters and is no longer forced to confine itself to slogans, because it is now in a position to do so. Changing towards means more education, more education, more research, more future, because this is the basis of the future of our country. So, a little less F-35, we save 483 million for private schools and this surreal debate about who to spend money on (if it were for professors, schools or students) we might have solved it for months. Mrs. Minister, of course we wish you good work. We have learned to know her and to appreciate her in the work we have done together in the Commission over the past few months, and we know her dedication to the whole world of education. However, we must confess that his first statements on competitions and old age shots for teachers raise some concerns in us. Just as we are concerned that, in the face of the chaos that the minister Carrozza had created by abolishing the maturity bonus, she now wants to reinstate it. Think again, and seriously think of stopping the anticipation of admission tests to the closed-number faculties to be done in April. But do you really think that in April the young graduates, taken from the exam of maturity, have the ideas already clear to choose the faculty to register? Surely, you and the President-in-Office of the Council (which we are referring to as the passionate "De rerum scholae" in his speech of installation) know young students at the last year of high school and their many difficulties and uncertainties in the choice and selection of the university faculty. In these years we have allowed reforms to be made in the school, on the school, with the school without involving those who live the school every day. So let us avoid these mistakes again and make different choices. You have to have the courage to invest. The money comes first and then produces economy. It is not by cutting resources at school that economics is produced. Only a few months ago we debated the school decree in this House and expressed our doubts about the very few resources allocated. Unfortunately, we weren't wrong. The teachers, as we said yesterday, are those who, with passion, professionalism and commitment, run the school despite the salaries so low. It was really absurd to ask them to take on further cuts and reductions. As well as the solution found is completely messy, because they are resources, as has been widely said, removed from the whole school system: students, teachers and an entire system. We hope that we will soon return to talking about professional recognition and human and social recognition. In short, we hope to find again that right path for the full recognition of the acquired rights and rights finally recognized for everyone, students and teachers. On this decree, which we understand to be an important decree for teachers, however, we express our vote of abstention, because we really think that the solution found could be another and perhaps, from the beginning, although you have inherited the decree now in pride, another solution could be identified without taking away resources from the public school. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u47	Conte (NCD). Mr President, I wish the Minister every success in her difficult task, given the commitments made by the President-in-Office of the Council in this very Chamber during the presentation of the policy lines. The decree-law in the phase of conversion tends to remedy a bureaucratic anomaly that has seen involved the school staff who, in the course of 2013, has matured a step of seniority. Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 introduced, in fact, the blockade of wage automation for the years 2010 to 2012. The extension for the year 2013, foreseen by the following Decree-Law No 98 of 2011, has however found application only with the decree of the President of the Republic No 122, issued in September 2013. The temporal dystonia of these two measures has generated the anomalous situation for the school staff who, in the more than the entry into force of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic, in the meantime had been attributed the step of maturity matured. We welcome the commitment made by the previous Minister, Mr Carrozza, when he answered a question in the 7th Commission, which thus came to an end an unfortunate incident involving the teachers and ATA staff, for which it was even possible to return the increases received. However, it seems detrimental that the financial coverage is found with the partial use of the MOF fund, aimed at improving the training offer. It is well known that this Fund is mainly used to deal with situations of cultural hardship and deprivation, i.e. situations that require more attention and often individualised interventions to ensure school and social integration. It is a fund that represents a real added value for teaching and the educational provision of the school. For this reason, the hypothesis of an ulterior cut of the MOF fund for the payment of the shots is considered impractical, which will have to find different financial coverage. The conversion of the decree-law under consideration provides an opportunity to address another question concerning the staff of the school. As the new government has recently been installed and as a reminder of the programme of the new President-in-Office of the Council in this House, in which he expressed his intention to pay great attention and sensitivity to school, we believe that there is both a need to review the contractual form for school staff. It seems totally inadequate, as it is not linked to any meritorious criterion, that the economic progression for the staff of the school sector is linked exclusively to the seniority of service, as provided for by the current contracts of sector. In order to restore dignity to teachers, by enhancing their role and the important educational and social function, and above all to achieve an improvement in the quality of teaching, it is considered necessary to introduce a new contractual form linking economic progression to the evaluation of professionalism, skills, knowledge, commitment and availability of teachers, even if it is difficult to identify objective evaluation criteria. We have therefore taken with satisfaction President Renzi's programmatic statements and those that appeared in the press of the new Minister Giannini. We remember that, in recent years, the spending review has seen heavily interested the school with amalgamations of offices and managements, with the increase of the number of pupils per class, with the cut of activities and smaller resources for cultural initiatives in widening the training offer. This is not the occasion, but we must not forget the serious situations in which many school buildings are located. The New Right Centre, therefore, looks positively at the conversion of this decree-law and will vote on it. However, it is also an opportunity to bring the school back to the centre of the attention of the policies of the new Government, considering it essential that the resources taken away in the past be restored, which have heavily influenced the quality of the Italian school service. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u50	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, the events of the measure before us today are well known. At first, in fact, it was planned to extend until 31 December 2013 the provisions of Article 9 of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010, in which it reads that: For the teaching, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (A.T.A.) of the School, the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 are not useful for the maturation of the wage positions and the relative economic increases provided for in the current contractual provisions of the School. From the block of salary shots for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, established by Tremonti with Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010, came to the decree of the President of the Republic No. 122 of 2013, which extended these provisions until 31 December 2013. Therefore, the salary treatment for the year 2013 is not useful for the maturation of wage positions and their economic increases, while 2014 is useful for the maturation of the aforementioned wage positions, whose payment is however suspended with one-off effects. I remember that the note of the MEF, released on 27 December 2013, decided, in essence, to return the salary shots, already received by the teachers in 2013, with a deduction of 150 euros monthly from January 2014. The 5 Star Movement had highlighted the criticalities deriving from the ways in which the whole issue has been addressed, starting from a regulation, as farraginosa as random, that too often characterizes the world of the school and that denotes a pathological and distorted modus operandi. This is yet another opportunity, which we have before us, to highlight once again the inadequacy of the salaries of Italian teachers, penalized by the continuously procrastinated salary blocks, which mark a further discrepancy with the teachers of the other countries of the European Union. The recruitment-retribution relationship must necessarily be rethought, through a change that leads above all to link the wage shots to the quality of service and to meritorious criteria, not leaving them - as it happens - anchored exclusively to the criterion of seniority. Then there is the problem of financial cover. We can certainly be pleased that the emergency can be overcome. However, all this happened through some questionable choices: in fact, in order to ensure the necessary coverage, 120 million was used to the fund established in 2008 by then Minister Gelmini, and the remaining 463 million euros were recovered through the fund for the improvement of the training offer. Such a choice - there is no need to say it - is, at least, not reasonable, since it continues to affect everything concerning the enrichment of training and the use of projects dedicated to the integration of pupils with disabilities and with a high risk of social discrimination. It will therefore be weakened the training offer plan which, for the school, is the beating heart of teaching and training. These events help to generate ischaemias within a school system which has already been severely compromised and which, announced and denounced several times, have not yet been effectively addressed and resolved. It is the case of those who intended to submit in January 2014 the application for retirement, after having completed the step in 2013, but who, following the freezing of the years 2012 and 2013, to assert the salary step on the pension and the liquidation, are forced to wait a further year. All this, of course, causes damage to those who had planned retirement in September 2014: behind these blackouts there are lives and people who, reached the climax of working maturity, relate to those young people who represent the skeleton, the lifeblood and the future of our country. The school is at the same time the starting point and arrival of a healthy and dynamic society, a sort of virtuous circle from which the corollaries that constitute society start and develop. There is often talk of school, even in this House, but there is talk of it in formalistic terms; there is often talk of reforms, mostly bland, uncourageable and above all poorly aware. We must learn to respect school and not to plunder it. He who teaches leaves a mark in the life of our country and, even more and with greater consciousness, manages to trace it if such means are not lacking. It is not enough to send your children to school: you have to accompany them along the path of studies and build together with them, day by day, the awareness that in school you go not to win a title, but to prepare for life. The Government, together with the General Accounting Office of the State, could and should have recovered the remuneration funds in another way. Both in the Commission and in the amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement indicated the possibility of making use of funds relating to other financial annuities. For this reason the 5 Star Movement declares its abstention vote on this decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u53	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Madam Senators, Madam Minister, it is very unusual to address in this House a question of purely financial theory applied to a kind of wage engineering which receives employees of public administrations, and in particular those who carry out the particular work, in various ways, of transferring knowledge and teaching skills. The school is a loose field that constantly requires cultivation, attention and dedication. It is such a delicate sector in the organization of a modern state that it does not allow distractions and distractions, or the immediate loss of the social, pedagogical and popular function on which the modernity of the State and its ability to provide services to the citizens, as well as the will of the nation to allow the citizens to realize fully according to the dictates of the Constitution. The school, therefore, is fertile expanse of talents, different sensibilities, social recovery, contrast to the underworld, permanent education, indispensable and strategic support to competitiveness, civic education, exercise of active citizenships. For these reasons, we cannot afford to waste any human and professional resources, earning every useful contribution to the achievement of the moral tasks of public education. Every hesitation in this sense by the organs of the State and local self-government causes shock in the body of teachers and in the environments that cling to the school: we think of families, the same students and the world of volunteering; we think of entrepreneurship, which draws its human capital from the school. So let's think about this when we deal with school problems. In announcing the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group on this measure, I must stress our great concerns regarding the depletion of resources allocated to the school. For example, the choice to draw from the fund for the improvement of the training offer (MOF) for us is a serious vulnus to what is already a small endowment. We therefore call for the Government to make its own commitment that this fund be immediately restored and refilled. As well as we believe we have to tell the government that, on issues such as school building, human resources and the computerization of educational procedures are conditions to which our Group will look carefully and of course with a watchful eye. I suggest - for example - that we take the senator's recommendations for life Renzo Piano as good as possible. Rather than pharaonic building complexes, it is appropriate to look at minute maintenance. It would actually take 50,000, 60,000 or 100,000 euros for each school complex, annually, in the good season (i.e. when the school is not in operation), to recover an extraordinary heritage, which is often inherent in the same urban fabric. While the new complexes should be built in the outskirts, obviously going to have a further impact on cementification, a process of improvement and reorganization of the same urban fabric, through the methodical and systematic recovery of school complexes, could really agree with us. So, on this factor, as well as critics, we will be very careful. In the same way it is important to finally equip the school with resources for its computerization, in order to obtain a gain in information and communication technology. We think, that is, that day when we will abolish or decrease the load of books and notebooks, entrusting everything to a pen that can be inserted in a computer, to lighten, also from the material point of view the students, favoring their physical well-being (today the weight of a backpack, full of books and notebooks, is really remarkable). The same applies to the attention to human resources. I will use the words of an intellectual who probably does not belong to our group or to our cultural sensibilities, namely Marcel Henaff. He defined teaching as one of the professions of giftgiving: teaching is not comparable to the measure of gross domestic product, which can be evaluated in terms of numbers. We know, in fact, that teaching belongs to the future: it is a sowing, whose harvests will come only after much later seasons. For these reasons we believe that, to those who practice daily the profession of gift, we must ensure resources, economic and salary improvement and, of course, that dignity which, even through the measure that we are approving, we will help to recognize. With these sentiments, I announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u56	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the school is the commitment that President Renzi, the Government all and you, Madam Minister, have made with force. You have done so from some symbolic gestures. I am referring to the visits that the President-in-Office will make every week, in his company, Madam Minister, to understand the situation of schools and schools throughout the national territory. I refer, moreover, to the letter sent to the Mayors for the reporting of problems affecting school structures. When we talk about the quality of the school we must understand all its different declinations, which certainly range from school building to the quality of teaching and training, but also to the dignity, not excluding the economic one, of the teaching staff, of all teachers, up to the ability to train conscious and responsible citizens. We must not forget the now endemic problem of precariousness, which must be addressed in order to give certainties to the teaching class and teaching continuity to students, as well as to close a long and shameful chapter of our recent history. For school building, the country's real emergency, which today is not able to assure its young school buildings safe, welcoming and functional, it is necessary a powerful investment - which the Premier promised in his speech of settlement - and the involvement of local administrations, which will have to be able to count, in order to intervene, on the easing of the internal stability pact. The school and training of our young people is, in fact, a responsibility of all levels of government of the country and of all citizens. But if there are many issues involved in the sector today, we are here to try to give a positive answer to a problem that lies with the staff of the school and which originates in measures of the past: we know that, Madam Minister. This is a bureaucratic error, a real oversight that has generated the request for the return of sums already received in good faith by school staff in terms of old age shots, and not only. We must thank the Minister Giannini who, just established, has worked positively so that we could arrive in a short time to approve the decree initiated by the former minister Carrozza, which in turn we thank for the timely initiative adopted. Similarly, the members of the Education Commission should be thanked for their cooperation in improving the decree itself, extending its effectiveness also to cases which were initially not foreseen. The measure seeks to clarify and resolve the bureaucratic error which led to the request for the return of some sums already received by school staff in the form of old age shots. It is a question of preventing these sums from being claimed by the State to the detriment of school workers. Let us return, therefore, to the theme of the dignity of the teachers' body and of the school as a whole, of all those who today work for the preparation of Italian citizens. To cover lower income, reference will be made to the fund of 30% of the expenditure savings resulting from the effects of Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, a fund destined to be reinvested in the school sector; but - alas - it will also have to draw on the fund for the improvement of the educational offer for the school year 2013-2014. In the course of the discussion in the Education Commission, however, the problem of ATA staff was also raised, which was asked to return incentives to carry out additional tasks than normal tasks, which were assigned and carried out after appropriate training. It is not - as is clear - a matter of wage cuts, but of economic increases resulting from the provision of additional posts. However, since these economic increases occurred in the interest of the freezing of salaries, they were treated as simple increases in salaries themselves and were therefore required to pay them back. To solve this problem, an amendment was tabled in which approximately EUR 40 million was allocated for a specific negotiation session to recognise a one-off salary allowance for the same ATA staff. We believe that situations such as these can no longer be tolerated. This is a major problem for teachers and ATA staff who, thanks to the intervention of the Commission and the Assembly with today's vote, will be resolved. Of course we are happy with this, but we are even happier with the Government's commitment to reverse the course. Madam Minister, these events bear witness to a lack of attention to the school. We are talking about the dignity of the school; we are talking about an overall project that brings the school back to the centre of investment in the country system. In order to heal this difficult and long-lived affair, however, we are obliged to intervene on the funds for the improvement of the training supply. You have told us this and our rapporteur has asked for it on an agenda, which Parliament as a whole wanted: these funds must necessarily be restored quickly, because the school needs to improve its offer, recover its dignity and get rid of that low consideration that a blind policy of so many, too many years, has dedicated to our teachers. It is a low consideration that we, as a Democratic Party, do not want and can no longer tolerate: school as an investment, of course, with school construction, but also with political consideration for teachers, pupils and the whole country. Madam Minister, new Italy must start again from school. You've worked hard. We expect a lot and consider this measure only a necessary moment of passage on which, of course, we agree. Our vote will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 3 of 23 January 2014 laying down temporary and urgent provisions for the extension of the salary automation of school staff" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be authorised to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u61	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 10, 362, 388, 395, 849 and 874, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u62	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the bill we are debating today bears my signature, among other things, because this was my first act in this legislature, since on 15 March 2013 I presented a draft law, signed by Senators Tronti and Corsini, on this subject. That is to say how much I care about this issue and to arrive at an important clarification. I intend to vote in favour of this bill, while expressing a strong perplexity and a radical dissatisfaction with the article. I explain the reasons for my position, which is not limited to some critical issues, albeit relevant, but concerns the establishment and overall inspiration of the bill. In my opinion, it contains wordings which seriously weaken the meaning, the perspective and the purpose of this legislation, starting with the wording which provides for the recurrence of acts of violence, that is, the fact that they must be repeated for torture to occur. That sounds like a big mistake. Moreover, among the penalties envisaged, life imprisonment is introduced in the most relevant case. And so, while in many other situations and in relation to many other measures, many of us work to overcome the "end of sentence never" here comes life sentence with respect to a new case. And yet the fundamental reason for criticism is another. This is about the fact that in the measure under consideration torture is not classified as a crime of its own, but as a common offence. I am starting from an article in our Constitution which is neglected, although it is - in my opinion - the basis of the speech that today, around the provision in title, is necessary to make. I refer to the fourth paragraph of Article 13, where it is established that any physical and moral violence against persons who are subject to freedom restrictions is punished. According to some constitutionalists, this is the only place in our Constitutional Charter where the introduction of a crime is expressly and openly provided for, which becomes legally and constitutionally mandatory. Attention, the decisive passage of that paragraph is the formula: "restrictions of freedom". In fact, this explicitly refers to a condition where the State is deprived of freedom through its apparatuses, its organisms and its men. This refers to another equally important wording, contained in the 1984 United Nations Convention against Torture, where, in fact, the offence of torture is classified as an offence of its own, namely that of public officials, officials of the State and those of any public authority. This is the essential issue that is being totally eluded in the draft law currently under discussion, because the crime of torture is envisaged as a common crime, attributable to any citizen. And this raises a question, not only fundamental, but even directly, because precisely in the 1984 UN Convention - against which our country is facing a scandalous delay of thirty years - the specificity of the torture offence is identified and firmly linked to participation, acts of violence, against those who are subject to restrictions of freedom, of those who are in charge of the public service. Above all, this is an essential element of the reasoning behind the bill signed by me and Senators Tronti and Corsini: I am referring to the fact that precisely that essential foundation of the rule of law, which provides for the ownership of the legitimate monopoly of force in the police bodies, is a very delicate issue. A function so essential that it requires maximum balance and intelligence in its exercise. Therefore, it is not only possibility, but the duty of the State to publicly delegitimize those who abuse that legitimate monopoly of force. In fact, this is the knot. Torture finds its root exactly in this category, that is, in that of the abuse of power, the arbitrary and illegal exercise of a legitimate force, used extra legem. If we remove this circumstance from the scope of this reasoning and from the concrete scope of this structure, the measure in question is fatally devitalized. I would add that we have entered the heart of a crucial issue. I would like to draw attention to this because we are talking about the fundamental principles of the rule of law and of the democratic state because the safety of the person and his body while they are in the custody of the State, his apparatus and his men, the physical and psychic integrity of that person and his body, regardless of the biography and his curriculum (also a criminal curriculum), founded the social pact and founded the political obligation and the same legal and moral legitimacy of the democratic state. This is the essence of the obligation between the citizen and the democratic state: the certainty that the State guarantees safety, physical and psychic integrity, all the more so when in its custody, gives strength to the covenant of obedience to the State, and to the duty of loyalty to it. It is on this pact, between a guarantee of safety for the citizen, and loyalty to the State that is based on the order of the democratic state. Therefore, the violation of the foundations of this political pact between citizen and state constitutes the most serious crime and not only for humanitarianism: because every human life is unique and unrepeatable, but precisely for the legal and political reasons I have set out. Finally, I think that the honour of the police bodies, the dignity of the uniform, the integrity of their image descend exactly from the capacity of the State to sanction, on the basis of the principle of criminal responsibility as always personal responsibility, those who violate that pact between the citizen and the State and thus turn out to be unfaithful servants. Therefore, to defend that dignity and that honour is the capacity of the State, its laws and the same members of the Forces of the Order to recognize that the injury of the body of the citizen entrusted to their custody is indeed the most serious crime. And precisely because when the body of the citizen is in the hands of the State that body is the greatest and most precious good on which, precisely, the legitimacy of the State itself is founded. It is the State with its laws, with the institution of the crime of torture, that defends that dignity. It is the State, with its law on the crime of torture, that can better defend that dignity. Certainly not those hoodlums who protect the shame of those who have committed the crimes and murders for which they have been convicted, coming to offend the family members of the victims. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena.]] That is why, considering that we are having an important debate, thirty years after the UN Convention on Torture, my vote will still be in favour of this bill, which, however, leaves me dissatisfied on many points. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u63	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is certainly an important point in updating our penal code. However, I believe that the effort made after decades and decades of delays on a subject that is widely foreseen in repeated conventions and in many international agreements would have deserved a higher, more appropriate and more comprehensive response than the problem that is being posed. Nevertheless, the need for the adoption of a measure on this particular crime, or rather, on this issue - because then we will see that it is not a crime, because we maintain our legal system in relation to the torture crime within the aggravating forces, and we do not insert a specific crime - is a step forward that I cannot fail to recognise. I repeat, however, that, once again, we are making small, tenuous and prudent progress in a matter which, on the other hand, is peaceful at international level and which finds a definitive response in international conventions. The delay in these years certainly highlights the difficulty of our Parliament and our country to accept a case that certainly embarrasssssssing. If we want to bring the reasoning to the full, in fact, this is a crime committed by the public official, who, having the possibility to use force and to deprive a citizen of freedom, assumes attitudes such as to induce the latter to conduct independent of or contrary to his own will, such as collaboration or admission. In essence, the citizen is led to change his behavior, which he would not otherwise do if he were not induced by physical and psychological violence. To insert the charge on a common crime is certainly a step forward, but it does not point out in a complete and clear way the fact that this type of crime is committed by those who in the exercise of their functions have in an excessive way, which goes beyond the legal provisions, the power that is assigned to them. It is therefore clear that the aggression constitutes a step forward, as well as the heavy sanctioning of behavior, but we do not want to accept to the full what is recognized in all the advanced democracies, that is, that the official can also commit a crime of his own. I believe that we should think about this, because unfortunately not only are there difficulties in admitting certain situations: we will also talk about other things later, dealing with the next items on the agenda, on which I believe the same problem arises, about not taking a path that in advanced civil and democratic societies and systems is done without reluctance and without concern for admissions that can call into question even past behaviour or judgment on them. We must look to the future and we must equip our country in such a way that it has a system that lives up to its legal culture, its humanistic civilization and our capacity to be democratic and guarantors of the rule of law to the very end. These are the reasons that led me, at the time, to give up my position as rapporteur in the Commission, and these are the reasons that lead me today, as Mr Manconi has already said, to express a positive final opinion on the measure (because it is still a step forward) and, at the same time, to maintain all the reservations that are present in the amendments, which I will withdraw precisely in order to give the opportunity to exercise the will to proceed with a step forward. The deprivation of the freedom of an individual by the public authority, of a person exercising public authority, is certainly a fact provided for by our law. This is necessary, but it must be done with the maximum possible guarantees, and there can be no attitude of caution in sanctioning behaviors that go beyond the law, even in situations of particular emergency. We must not forget, in fact, colleagues, that the facts could certainly happen because of personal deviant behaviour, but also - and this is the element that we want to strike with greater determination on the basis of international conventions - in emergency situations that the States, unfortunately, sometimes have to accept. But then in those particular cases, where the need for general protection becomes stronger, the State must be able to strike in a determined way those who go beyond the powers that the law makes available to them. We feel today that this can almost be an unnecessary debate because, fortunately, we live in a regime and a condition of democracy and a broad protection of citizens' rights. The laws, however, are predictions for the future and not for the past. In this sense, then, I would like to draw Members' attention to a certainly positive assessment of the measure, while maintaining the reservation I made earlier. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the amendments I have tabled in this House, hoping that this willingness will be accepted for a more open attitude in the future. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u65	We are present in the Chamber to attend our work a representation of students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale (Industrial Technical Institute) Antonio Meucci in Florence, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u66	Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, almost 30 years have passed since the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. With this Convention, the general prohibition of torture was in fact put into practice through a system of international controls, forcing the Contracting States to take appropriate measures to ensure the prevention and fight against torture and to protect the physical and spiritual integrity of persons deprived of their freedom. With the ratification by the 20th Member State, the 1984 UN Convention has become effective since 26 June 1987. For the Italian Republic, the Convention itself has been effective since 11 February 1989, when Italy deposited the instrument of ratification with the United Nations. That law of 3 November 1988, which in fact authorised the ratification of the Convention, formally introduced into the Italian law the obligations contained therein. In fact, but not in substance, because it has proved insufficient to make effective the obligation for States to legislate so that any act of torture, such as any complicity or participation in it, is covered as an offence in domestic criminal law, in accordance with the definition of torture provided for in Article 1 of the Convention, with appropriate specific and proportionate penalties; a crime which the Convention has confined to relations between the State and citizens. Contrary to these international commitments, the offence of torture has never been included in the Italian penal code to date. Time has passed in vain, as if to give silent evidence that the de facto order already contained rules capable of predicting all possible cases of crimes of violence against the dignity of the person, almost as if there were no problem of disparity in the relationship of force between the State and the citizen, as if the prevarication of the State against the people was a ghost of a past with which the accounts have not been made to the end. However, the legislative vacuum has manifested all its effects in a series of dramatic events, in which the brutality of the violence that has been perpetrated to the detriment of citizens in clear condition of inability to defend themselves adequately, led the judges, before the code, to declare themselves faced with obvious crimes of torture. Having to bring them back to the legal categories of violence, injury or aggravated injury, has made these crimes, in most cases, prescribed or led to inadequate penalties that have greatly affected public opinion. The violence, which causes physical or psychic suffering, which harms the dignity of the person deprived of personal freedom or even entrusted to custody or care, who comes in a condition of handicapped defense (as stated in Article 1 of the bill currently under discussion), highlights in fact the uniqueness of the crime of torture and the need to make the penalty adequate, which our Constitution already prescribed in Article 13, to which it has never in fact given substance. Today literature, cinema and the journalistic survey have been telling stories like those of Bolzano, Diaz or Federico Aldrovandi and telling them as stories of obvious violations of human rights, never denied. Instead, our code shows all its inadequacy with the need to send out a message of impunity that harms the dignity of those who have suffered the abuse, humiliates the family, makes citizens insecure and frightened, educates young people to distrust the State, provokes social tension. These events are not of today. The events of Bolzano date back to 2001 and many have been those who have acclaimed their political commitment to fill this gap, with a variable intensity depending on the occurrence of these dramatic events. In fact, however, there have been two occasions when we have come closer to achieving the goal. In 2009, an amendment, signed by 70 senators, was submitted to the so-called security package that introduced the crime of torture: it was not approved for 6 votes of difference. It was a really bad day. We in the Democratic Party were very confident, partly because a consensus had been built around this amendment that went beyond the political opposition forces. Faced with a justification by the Government then in charge of the extreme generality - as he said - of the norm, the commitment to work on a bill began from there, which in the previous legislature arrived in the Chamber and was then buried with a referral back to the Commission. I believe that today there are finally the conditions for fulfilling what has now become an obligation not only political and representative of the will of the citizens. The climate is more favourable; the majority who spoke in the Commission on justice is proof of this, as well as the content of the speeches are hopeful. The text we are going to vote on is not very different from that which came to this House in the 16th parliamentary term, which is the result of a basic mediation between two different points of view which have been well set out both in the rapporteur's report and in previous speeches. On the one hand, the view of those who call for transposition as expressed in the International Convention, i.e. as prevarication of those who work in the name and on behalf of the State towards the citizen. Among other things, I understand and share most of the good reasons contained in the criticism of Senator Manconi, who has worked so hard to include the definition of torture crime, contained in the International Convention. On the other hand, that of those who believe that the crime of torture should be extended and assume the content of common crime. The solution reached, that is to introduce the crime of torture as a common crime, with the aggression if committed as a public officer, bringing back in this case also the incitement to commit torture, today is a good result, especially because it fills the normative void and finally gives fullness to Article 13 of the Constitution. I believe that this is a historic delay farther away from the ratification of the Convention, and that it must make us reflect on the value that this Parliament attaches to the ratification of the international treaties. It seems almost like a country that shows two faces: the first one that the world expects from an ancient civilization like ours, that does not set limits to the defense of the rights of the person; and the second one, that of the conservation, that makes our country show the fears of a past that cannot face yet to the end. I believe that no Renaissance that is not preceded by a profound recovery of a new and contemporary humanism can begin. So I expect that today we will finally recover this void, also conveying a perhaps deeper and more symbolic meaning than the many reforms we are facing, helping us to regain the confidence of citizens in a policy that protects them and, above all, educates our young citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u68	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u69	Mr President, Article 1 of the UN Convention against Torture says that Torture is a method of physical or psychological coercion sometimes inflicted with the aim of punishing or extorting information or confessions, often accompanied by the use of special instruments capable of inflicting corporal punishment. In the area of pre-classical criminal law, it is not considered a punishment, but a means of proof. Today torture is practised in 112 countries. It was introduced in 1252 by Pope Innocent IV, in the so-called "Ad Extirpanda" bubble, and used during the Inquisition as a tool for extorting confessions during the trials. It was mentioned before that Italy ratified the UN Convention against Torture on 10 December 1984 and we committed ourselves to prosecuting acts of torture, but the torture offence in Italy to date is only present in the military code, while in the ordinary code it remains absent. It has been said that there was basically no need for a specific crime, since any torture could have been punishable under existing legislation. Unfortunately, the history of these years has shown that this is not the case and the omission of the crime of torture has produced, as well as many critical observations from international bodies, also a great legal vacuum and, in fact, impunity, starting from the process related to violence at the barracks of Bolzano during the G8 of Genoa. The prosecutors stressed that, although the facts were fully part of the international definition of the crime of torture, the shortcomings of the Italian legislation meant that it was impossible to prosecute them as such and in fact allowed the prosecution of those responsible for accusing them of less serious crimes such as the abuse of office; and both for the length of the trial, and for the lesser severity of the crime, the penalties related to the incriminated episodes were prescribed: a really shameful thing. In a similar case, which occurred in Asti, the judge at the time of the trial stated that he could only condemn the agents responsible for prolonged torture for other crimes, without the possibility of prosecuting them for the specific crime. The UN Convention, which entered into force in 1987, provides not only for the obligation to punish, but also how to punish, with wider, even extraterritorial, forms of jurisdiction, in the spirit of the universal jurisdiction on crimes against humanity. It is a crime against humanity for general international law, but also for positive international law, starting with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1949 and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950. Although 30 years have passed since the ratification of the 1984 UN Treaty, the Statute of the International Criminal Court was signed in Rome in July 1998 and is intended to judge all those in any area of the world who have been responsible for crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide. Among the crimes against humanity, torture is foreseen and this specific crime has long been foreseen in many countries: in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Iceland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Macedonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Hungary, and not in Italy. We as the Left Ecology and Freedom had presented a bill, drawn up together with the many associations that in Italy for years deal with human rights, precisely to introduce the crime of torture, following the definition of torture present in the United Nations Convention. Our text defined the crime as a crime precisely if committed by a public official or a public service officer, therefore not a general crime, because the crime of torture stems precisely from the asymmetric relationship between the state and the citizen. Violence is considered necessary element of the crime, with the sufferings inflicted, which can be physical or psychic. The crime of torture is not comparable to that of personal injury, for many reasons: it concerns human dignity and not only the body, it does not depend on the depth and duration of the injuries produced, it must always be prosecutable of office, it must have appropriate penalties and appropriate limitation times, because we are talking about the violation of that important pact between State and citizens of which President Manconi spoke before. We note that the path chosen was another one, that is to foresee a general crime, committed by anyone. For us it is a much less linear text than that which only provides for an increase in the penalty in the event that the offence is committed by a public official or a public service officer, that is, by the State. To the text that is put to the vote, we have tabled some amendments, obviously concerning articles and measures that we do not agree with. For example, with regard to the provision of life sentence, we propose an amendment replacing it with imprisonment at 30 years, because we consider life imprisonment (in fact not only on this crime), a strong contradiction with the re-educational purpose of the sentence. And we are very sorry that on such an important issue as the introduction of a new criminal offence, our country has again chosen an autonomous road, which does not take full account of UN recommendations and international conventions. To date, even the Vatican has cancelled life imprisonment and introduced the crime of torture into its criminal system. For us at SEL this is a great opportunity lost because, with this definition introduced into criminal legislation, a single act of torture would not be enough to punish torturers; President Manconi explained this very clearly. For us the road is still open; We will continue to fight for the introduction of the crime of torture in our criminal system, as provided for in the international treaties, and we will do so in the name of Federico Aldrovandi, Stefano Cucchi and many, too many deaths from torture. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u70	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at times it seems almost unbelievable to have to talk about the crime of torture today. We read "Introduction of the crime of torture in the penal code" and we are in March 2014. It is very sad to think of a crime like this, which seems to belong to a medieval reality, to an obnoxious and arcane reality; instead we are still talking about torture today. We are an ancient civilization, as a colleague said before: human beings have been on this earth for thousands and thousands of years now. Yet there is still this problem today. We have not just been discussing in the Commission the introduction of torture, how to qualify it, what elements to consider as constituting this crime. If we think of this as a criminal offence, that means that we think that there may be specific cases that might be applied to this hypothesis. It is for this reason that we in the North League actually also show some satisfaction with the outcome of the Commission's work. We are well aware that at international level there has been talk of the crime of torture with other connotations: it has been referred to as a crime of its own, committed only by the public official, a crime committed by those who torture a person in order to extort her information. The text that has been drafted in the Commission actually reflects the desire to address another type of problem. It is for this reason that a common crime has arisen, that is, that it can be committed by anyone. Unfortunately, the motivations are based on the sad awareness of what can happen in our so-called civilization. In fact, the phenomena that we qualify as torture, according to our common way of hearing, can unfortunately happen even in reality where the act of torture itself is not committed to extort information. Let us think of the realities that have also been discussed in the newspapers; let us think of facts that have happened, for example, within institutions, perhaps with regard to elderly or disabled people who are housed in some places of care. These are behaviors that really scream against humanity. This is one of the tortures that we have found to exist. We didn't just think of an image that may still seem very old, from history books, where we talk about medieval torture with the use of strange tools. In fact, torture is much more subtle. It is for this reason that the proposed text provides that it constitutes a crime of torture to commit more acts of violence or of threat, that is, multiple inhuman or degrading treatment of human dignity, or - it is even said - omissions, and that what is caused is an acute physical or psychic suffering. Therefore, we must not think of torture only as the torture suffered by those who are tortured by an ancient medieval instrument: but it can also derive from a constant and daily solicitation, which degrades the person, personality and human dignity. It is for this reason that the North League has proposed some amendments, which we consider to be improving and, in some ways, not essential to the content of this crime, in order to contemporaneize opposing interests: on the one hand, to broaden the scope of the rule, but at the same time to provide for parameters and palettes, so that it does not become too generic. The only problem we have raised with regard to the draft law is Article 3. I am not referring to the article itself, and the perplexity does not arise from the fact that we believe that there can be no such case, but from the fear of how it can be applied in the specific case. Article 3 amends the rules of the single text of the provisions governing immigration. The new text that is proposed therefore provides that: "No refusal or expulsion or extradition of a person to a State shall be permitted if there are reasonable grounds to believe that it risks being subjected to torture". We are well aware that, unfortunately, in some countries such crimes can be committed and that they can be carried out in this way, since we have talked about an extension of the scope of the norm, also in Italy, and since we consider as torture also particularly the treatments that can be suffered by the elderly in a nursing institution or in a hospice. Therefore, we ask ourselves questions about how the rule is applied, in the sense that we wonder whether, if the existence of the reasonable grounds for believing that a person can be subjected to torture is assessed in some ways a priori and not based on concrete elements, it is not easy to limit or completely eliminate expulsion and extradition. We have therefore proposed a deleterious amendment to this article, precisely in view of our concerns in this regard. All in all, we hope that this House will be able to vote unanimously in favour of the text of the draft law, particularly with regard to the establishment and provision of the torture offence, for the reasons we have outlined above. However, we believe that it is not enough just to make regulations, but we always need a lot of culture. We have also said this in other situations: it is useless to foresee the hypothesis of crime if, at the same time, we do not cultivate a culture, of all of us and of all our people, of total respect for people, for our neighbour and for human dignity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u72	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, officially prohibited by the laws of most countries, often even by the Constitutions, according to Amnesty International's latest Annual Report torture is carried out in 112 countries. In Italy, the crime of torture has not so far been introduced into our legal system: it is the self-appointed and express criminal hypothesis of a crime that violates the rights of the person, guaranteed by Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic and by human and legal civilization. On this issue our country has been inexplicably backward, perhaps ratifying international treaties and conventions without however providing for legislative changes to make them effective. The prohibition of torture is covered not only by numerous general conventions on human rights, but also by specific treaties to which Italy has acceded, such as the UN Convention against Torture of 27 June 1987 and the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Penalty of 26 November 1987. The UN Convention against Torture provides in Article 1, in conjunction with Article 4, for States to legislate that any act of torture (as well as any attempt to engage in torture or any complicity or participation in such an act) should be expressly and immediately contemplated as an offence in national criminal law, in accordance with the definition laid down in Article 1 of the Convention, which clearly identifies the concept of torture. This definition constitutes an excellent conceptual basis for the codification of the torture offence in Italy, even if it does not identify the conduct that can be pursued, leaving the burden of identifying such conduct to the individual States. In this regard, the extensive case law of the European Court of Human Rights comes to the fore, which has intervened on various occasions and areas, condemning States for violating Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which literally recalls Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 3 of the European Convention covers three types of conduct: torture, inhuman treatment or punishment, and degrading treatment or punishment. The definition and precise specification of each conduct has been studied in detail by the European Court of Human Rights in the numerous judgments. Mr President, with regard to the constituent elements and characteristics of criminal cases, we have previously identified, using the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the three possible conducts which can be distinguished from each other according to the degree of suffering inflicted: very serious and cruel in torture, mental and physical of particular intensity in inhuman treatment and capable of causing humiliation and anguish in degrading treatment. But it is necessary to enter into the specific of the crime of torture as it will have to be codified in the Italian criminal law. As regards the actus reus, the constituent elements may be deducted from Article 1 (1) of the UN Convention against Torture of 1984. These elements are now accepted by the international community as a whole. If necessary, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia also supported these elements in some cases. I would like to recall a famous quote from our Pietro Verri, who already in 1776, in the "Observations on torture" wrote: Torture is not a means of discovering the truth, but an invitation to the innocent to accuse himself guilty; therefore it is a means of confusing the truth, not to discover it. As mentioned earlier, it is clear that the Italian Parliament's delay in adopting the legislation against torture has gone not only against the commitments made at international level, but also against the Italian citizens themselves, potential victims of acts attributable to the category of inhuman or degrading treatment. The legislation that has taken place over the years has been lost in good intentions and good draft laws, which, however, have never reached the goal of final approval. It has perhaps weighed the prejudice that a legislative change, such as the introduction of the torture offence, could have an impact on the numerous ongoing trials carried out by representatives of the law enforcement agencies, due to acts of violence committed in various ways against persons who are still subject to restrictions of personal freedom. So much so that the non-governmental organizations, among which Amnesty International stands out, as the international organizations have loudly demanded that Italy adapt and fill the regulatory vacuum that has produced widespread injustices and marked the fate of many families. The international legislation that should guide the Italian legislator appears clear and directly applicable, also in order to give an effective meaning to the provisions of Article 13 of the Constitution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am now at the heart of the bill. Today's bill in the Senate has shown a new sensibility for parliamentarians, as justice has been reached in the Commission for the adoption of a single text. Specifically, this text introduces Articles 613-a and 613-b of the Criminal Code, thus regulating the incriminating case of conduct: the first article regulates the crime of torture, while the second incriminates the conduct of the public official or public service officer who instigates the commission of the event. The two cases have to be clarified on the most sensitive aspects on which the Commission's attention has been drawn. First of all, it was intended to introduce a common crime, since it is clearly stated that it can be committed by anyone, without the active person having to hold a specific qualification. A profile of some delicacy concerns the requirement, in order to integrate the crime, that more acts of violence or threat be carried out, that is, multiple inhuman or degrading treatment of the person and his dignity, or omissions. The choice in favour of the plurality of material actions stems from the obvious need to avoid double incriminations, since each of the acts carried out by the agent implies or may involve the consumption of an independent crime. However, since the majority of Commissioners did not agree with this approach, it was agreed that it was necessary to provide not only that the injury of the protected legal object should be carried out by more than one act, but also that they should be subjected to acute physical or mental suffering against a person deprived of personal freedom or entrusted to the custody, authority, authority, care or assistance of the person. Article 613-a may apply even if the taxable person is in a position of handicapped defence. A very important profile, on which an additional evaluation could be carried out, concerns the indication expressed in the same article that speaks of "omissions". The equivalence between commissive and omissive conduct is, however, laid down in Article 40 of the Criminal Code and perhaps it can be considered that this clause deserves to be maintained as it relates to a plurality of omissions; but it is desirable that, generally speaking, the debate on this point should be addressed without excessively rigid stances. The second paragraph of Article 613-a provides, however, for the aggravating circumstance where the fact is committed by an official in the performance of his duties, or by a person in charge of a public service in the performance of the service itself. Finally, the third and fourth paragraphs of the same Article govern cases where more serious consequences arise, such as personal injury or death. With reference to Article 613-b, in order to punish the incitement to commit torture it must be reiterated that the conduct is only that of the public officer or public service officer, thus being in the presence of a crime of its own. Article 2 of the draft law introduces amendments to Article 191 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, establishing that the statements or information obtained by recourse to the murder of torture are in no way usable. Article 3 aims to introduce into Legislative Decree No 286 of 25 July 1998, a specific cause of exclusion of the refusal, expulsion or extradition of an individual to a State in which he risks torture. Finally, Article 4 excludes that diplomatic immunity may be granted to foreign nationals who are subject to criminal proceedings or convicted of torture in another country or by an international court. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after this summary analysis of the contents of the text in question, I am going to conclude my speech by saying that we can say that we are satisfied with the fact that we have reached a stage of assuming responsibility and greater political determination in order to include, through the bill set out here, the crime of torture in our legal system: a case of criminal offence which may, in the future, play some dissuade from behaviour, even institutional ones, which are certainly not worthy of a great democratic country that still wants to define itself as a rule of law. I conclude with these words: We are proud of the progress of our civilization, we look with satisfaction at what we consider to be its successes in all branches of social life, but we also observe that our existence is often founded on the most unjust and cruel principles, and that the humanity of the future will speak of it with the same repugnance that we feel today for slavery and torture, as mistakes of other times, that civilization has abolished. These are not my words, but of Lev Tolstoy, who wrote them back in 1895: I make them equally mine, gathering their deep spirit and humanity on which every legal system should be based. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had ample opportunity to discuss the serious facts which are generally reflected in the establishment of the torture offence. Among the former, the facts of Genoa were rightly mentioned: for example, 93 arrests for Bolzano, with 37 prescriptions due to a limited penalty that could be imposed on those who have committed these serious crimes. If there was a torture offense, they probably wouldn't have fallen into a prescription. A few weeks ago I filed, on behalf of myself and the M5S Group, a question about the four officials who killed Federico Aldrovandi, who returned to service in uniform, without any further reflection on their human and professional skills and qualities. The problem that I perceive for this norm, as for others, is a contrast, a radicalization of the debate, with ideological tones. While it is true that this crime certainly goes to punish the officials of the Forces of Order or of the State who are guilty of crimes for which they rightly have to be prosecuted with special attention (because the crimes are particularly serious and horrendous), it is also true that we of the 5 Star Movement, who have always opposed these radicalized and ideological positions, notice that the conflicts and ideological debates disassemble the effectiveness of the norms, their discussion, their vote and therefore their implementation. I am also thinking of other types of crime, such as homophobia, which should be approved because, as with the torture offence, the United Nations and many rules recommend Italy to have this legislative instrument. Then, in general, these proposals fall into thin air because they are disassembled by debates that have little to do with reality. In this sense, I am also referring to the speech made by my colleague Stefani della Lega. The crime of torture must be thought, not only - as has been defined before - in the asymmetrical relationship of force between the State and the citizen, but for all those who in society have any asymmetrical relationship of force between the stronger and the weaker. In this regard, in order to carry out this intervention, I had to document a little 'on the cases of torture just mentioned in the context of kindergartens or hospices, and therefore on our children and our elderly; I have seen unlikely material, unacceptable, that defies any capacity to endure. I am thinking, for example, of six-year-old children, little Daniel, autistic, who suffered psychophysical violence in what he himself called "the classroom of torture" in the nursery school "San Romano" in Rome; I am thinking of the two women who, in Viterbo, for months have abused and beaten the elderly of a nursing home (the operation of the carabinieri was properly called "Barbarie"). In the face of these reports, many times we hear the term lager used. We know that journalists often use high-sounding terms, but in this case they seem extremely appropriate to us. These things happen; they are images that remain sculpted in the conscience and really need to take a stand by providing for a crime that establishes a severe punishment of such behaviors. I am thinking not only of the state, but also of crime; I am also thinking of the crimes that mafias and criminal organizations can commit to obtain information from people, victims. So let's get out of ideological opposition. With the prospect of such a crime you do not want to punish - as I have heard from some police unions - officials who make arrests a little 'challenged. (Translated with Google Translate) It is not designed to limit the operation of the Forces of Order: indeed, it is designed to reward those who have a virtuous behavior and punish those who in civil society, state and non-state, commit such crimes on the weakest. I believe that this is a great achievement, which has been achieved - as has often been the case in this parliamentary term - with a debate which goes beyond the government alliances, because it involves all the responsible and conscious political forces in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u76	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u77	Mr President, in our Constitution, Article 13 lays down the principle that any physical and moral violence against persons who are subject to restrictions of freedom is punished, even though the legislator has never found the strength to adopt specific legislation in this regard. It is a historical delay that today the Senate finally comes to fill in the hope that the bill that introduces the crime of torture will also be quickly approved by the House. In fact, the prohibition of torture is covered not only by numerous conventions on human rights, but also by specific treaties to which Italy has acceded for more than a quarter of a century. The UN Convention against Torture provides for the obligation for States to legislate so that any act of torture is expressly and immediately contemplated as a criminal offence in domestic criminal law and sets out a sufficiently clear legal framework that some States have transposed without amendment into their legislation. Torture shall therefore be understood to mean any act by which they are intentionally inflicted on a person severe, physical or mental pain or suffering, in particular in order to obtain from him or a third person information or confession, to punish her for an act which she or a third person has committed, or is suspected to have committed, to intimidate or pressure her or to intimidate or to put pressure on a third person, or for any other reason based on any form of discrimination, where such pain or suffering is inflicted by a public official or any other person acting on an official basis, or under his or her incitement, or with his express or tacit consent. As regards the subjective element of the crime, two requirements are required: the pursuit of a particular purpose, namely to obtain from the person subjected to torture or from a third person information or confession; inflicting pain and suffering must be an intentional fact. The question we have to ask ourselves is: does the bill meet these requirements in whole or in part? Definitely, only in part. The introduction of the crime of torture (this must be said before any other consideration) is not only a choice of civilization in general, a defence of the rights of citizens and a respect on the part of Italy of the commitments it has signed at international level, but it is also a way to defend the honor and the work of prison police officers, the public security authorities, the Carabinieri and all those who simply do their duty and who have the right not to be muddled and dishonoured by the action of individual public officials who abuse their role. In short, the introduction of the crime of torture is also a guarantee for those who, when they are in custody of a citizen on behalf of the State, behave in a correct and respectful manner of the inviolable rights of persons. The introduction of the torture offence in our penal code is the best business card in a rule of law and it is the figure of crime that sets the limit beyond which the State cannot go towards a citizen. This limit is the absolute inviolability of the body and mind of the individual when he enters into the state's availability, in whatever form, not only under that of prison detention. Torture must therefore be regarded as a crime against individual freedom. It is precisely this, that is, the limit between the citizen and the State. This is a limit that concerns the freedom of the individual even before his personal safety, because there are forms of torture that do not necessarily touch the physical safety, but rather other types of primary goods of the human being. This is the real legal asset to be protected. In fact, if we accept that there is any higher reason for exceeding this limit, it is the whole human rights building that loses its foundation. The concept of torture - it is worth repeating - cannot be limited only to physical torture, but it is important to take serious account, above all, of the most frequent forms of psychological torture. I think, in this regard, of the crude but sophisticated systems used at the time of Tangentopoli, when preventive imprisonment was systematically used to induce the suspect to confess even crimes that he had not committed. By entering more specifically into this draft law, it is clear that this is a compromise rule. The case that has been identified is that of a common and not proper crime, that is to say of an offense that can abstractly be committed by anyone and that being committed by a public official or a public service officer is an act of crime. There are many positive aspects: Article 2 introduces the principle of the unusability of statements and information extorted under torture, while Article 3 prohibits expulsions, rejections and extraditions when it is well founded to believe that in countries against which these administrative measures should produce their effects there are systematic violations of human rights and the person can be subjected to torture. Similarly, Article 4, which denies diplomatic immunity to those suspected or convicted in the country of origin for the crime of torture, should be welcomed. I should like to conclude by saying that there is at least one rule in the law that we are approving which deserves more detailed consideration: in order to be tortured, more acts of violence or threat must be committed; therefore, a single act of torture will be able to prevent condemnation, which, in my opinion, is unacceptable. We appreciate, however, the half-full glass, which lies in the extremely positive fact that the Senate today carries out an act of civilization, which aligns Italy with the best democracies in the world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u78	Colleagues, for an urgent need which has been put before me, I have to suspend the sitting a few minutes, until 12.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.11 p.m. and resumed at 12.20 p.m.) We resume our work, he is enrolled to speak Senator Lumia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last in our country we give full citizenship to a great value that prevents the use of torture. Many, rightly and legitimately, have motivated this decision with the need to respond to international conventions. However, I would remind my colleagues that we also have a constitutional foundation in our legal culture. In fact, in the fourth paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitution, any physical or moral violence on persons subject to restrictions of freedom is explicitly prohibited and is the only case in which the Constitution prescribes the legislator to resort to the criminal penalty in order to punish those guilty of such conduct. Of course, we also have international obligations: I am referring to the prohibition of torture, which is also explicitly provided for in Article 3 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Rome on 4 November 1950 and ratified following the adoption of the Law of 4 August 1955, No 848; I am also referring to Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966; then, more recently, Italy signed the United Nations Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishments of 1984, ratified following the adoption of Law No 489 of 1988. Despite the constitutional prediction and having signed and ratified all the international conventions mentioned, Italy (we, Parliament) has never introduced into its codes of torture crime; for this reason we propose to make a qualitative leap in this legislature. In other legislation, like the last one, we have come close to each other, but we have never had the courage to sink the blow, that is to translate into norm and introduce in our own codes the crime of torture. We have had a long debate in the Justice Commission, we have been confronted; the two positions, namely the crime of torture as a common crime or as a specific crime for public officials, have been widely discussed. Of course, we in the Democratic Party have also paid a lot of attention to what the international conventions are asking us to do, namely to address the public officials in a special way, but during the discussion important evaluations have emerged that have helped to draw up a final text that puts us in a position to really make a qualitative leap. Colleagues, we have provided for the crime of torture as a common crime, including in the penal code Article 613-bis, which punishes with imprisonment "Whoever, with more acts of violence or threat, or, by inhuman or degrading treatment of human dignity, or by omissions, causes acute physical or mental suffering to a person deprived of personal freedom or entrusted to his custody or authority or power or care or care or who is in a condition of handicapped defense." Colleagues, I would like to point out that having included the crime of torture as a common crime puts us in a position to strike specifically, for example, the mafia organizations, which have used torture several times and have reduced to inhuman conditions so many people who have been deprived of freedom, because these organizations have been able to exercise this evil power on the individual, the person, the children (let us not forget little Di Matteo, dissolved in acid). Colleagues, faced with these heinous crimes, there must be a specific condition, a specific course to be punished under the more general question of torture. But I would not want to forget other issues that we have encountered and that we also had to find in our country. I am referring to the ill-treatment of elderly people who go beyond a certain threshold and become torture; as well as the ill-treatment of children and children, which we have often seen filmed in situations where we go beyond the simple scappetto, and in which they are put into real torture, with constant and repeated beatings and ill-treatment. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, has meant the introduction of the crime of torture as a common offence. This has not taken us away from the need, especially provided for by international conventions, to strike also the official, man of power, representative of the institutions, when abuses of this quality to exert a pressure that turns into torture, with acts that are material or psychological. In fact, we have foreseen - because our code helps us - a special effect, punished with imprisonment from four to twelve years, and we will ask with an amendment to increase this kind of penalty precisely to give substance to the attack as a special effect. In short, even here a qualitative leap. No persecuting attitudes towards the public officer or a subordinate attitude, i.e. the public officer who can do anything, even exercise torture against the people he must guard. Penis are increased in case of personal injury. If it results from a serious personal injury the penalties have increased further, and so also in the case of serious personal injury, which we have often seen. If the death of the tortured person derives from the fact, the sentence of imprisonment is thirty years when death is an unwanted consequence; when death is wanted, instead, the sentence of life imprisonment is provided. I think we have used a balanced measure. We have also provided for the incitement to commit the torture of a public officer in the performance of his duties to another public officer or in charge of a public service, and we have also provided for penalties in this case. In addition, we have also been very attentive to the correct use of the information or statements obtained through the murder of torture, By excluding them. Refusal, expulsion or extradition of a person to a State in which, on the basis of established facts, there is a risk of it being subjected to torture, and diplomatic immunity to foreign nationals under criminal proceedings or convicted of torture in another country or by an international court cannot be recognised. These are the reasons why I believe that important work has been done in the Commission. I think that, even in view of the work that we will soon be doing in this House to improve the text by means of amendments, we can say that in this parliamentary term the crime of torture finds citizenship in our system. Our legal culture, our sense of humanity, our approach to this issue, in line with our Constitution and international conventions, tell us that we are lagging behind, but they also tell us that we can do so, and also with a good result. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u80	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u81	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students of the Technical Trade Institute "Vilfredo Pareto" in Pozzuoli, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u82	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to begin by associating myself with the speeches made by those who have stigmatized the importance of the introduction of a crime to which we have basically been obliged for many years, through the signing of those international treaties which, if anything, see us lagging behind in fulfilling those binding commitments which constitute, even more so after the amendment of the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, a sort of obligation on Italy to comply. Discussing an incriminating criminal law that intervenes in a territory already reported by the existence of other criminal criminal rules that could be applied obviously implies a clarification as to the possibility to differentiate this criminal criminal law from the pre-existing: private violence, illegal arrest, threat and anything else already provided for by the penal code. The rule on the crime of torture, which we first thought and which we wrote in the Commission and which we have the honour to present to the Assembly here today, is not a detailed rule, which is not limited to giving general indications, perhaps only from the international treaties, because here it is intended to punish repeated conducts of violence, or of threat, but if carried out against certain categories of subjects: these are persons deprived of personal freedom, persons who are entrusted for reasons of care, education, supervision and custody, to other subjects who have an obligation of supervision against other subjects who are in inferiority and who certainly cannot carry out, on the contrary, acts of violence to their detriment, and then of persons who are in conditions of handicapped defense (this is an expression that has been present in the penal code since 1930 and on which the jurisprudence of course has had a long way to measure). It is therefore a matter of violence or threats which are not committed to the detriment of anyone, but which are carried out against persons entrusted to the custody of others, who therefore have an obligation to protect them and certainly cannot commit acts of violence against them, with reference, I repeat, to absolutely predetermined situations. The crime of torture, however, is also a crime of event, and I would like to emphasize this circumstance, which confers pregency and specificity to Article 613-a, because these repeated conducts of violence or threat must have produced acute suffering, defined precisely in this way by the norm, at a physical and psychic level. It has been thought to do so, and I believe that it could not be done otherwise, at the expense of a reconstruction, in a certain way, of the murder of torture that only looked at the physical suffering but not at the psychic suffering, because it is clear that the legislator also had to take into account these sufferings that can be induced by violent, threatening, if serious and repeated activity. We considered it right to qualify these sufferings as acute, drawing this term from medicine, from the general one but also from forensic medicine, which elaborated the concept of acute suffering as a narrow and determinable concept. Therefore, the criminal legislator has also looked to other branches of our system and, in particular, to medical science and the contents and meanings elaborated by medical science, as should be done when the legislator opens a window on sectors other than the legal order in general and the legal order in particular and substantially recalls, in the context of that science, the elaborations that belong to that particular scientific field. It is therefore a crime of an event that causes physical or psychic suffering, provided that they are serious. Many other things could be said, but of course the rapporteur's reply cannot exceed a certain time frame, except that the House does not call for it: if nobody requests it, of course the rapporteur remains within the terms of reasonable intervention as to its duration. We have given a lot of thought to the introduction of Article 613-b, as Senator Lumia has already said, because it is culturally opposed to incitement crimes. There is a resistance that goes back to defining culturally against incitement crimes, which also finds its specific root in the code, precisely in Article 115, which states that the incitement not accepted or, even if accepted, not followed by the commission of the crime is not punishable. Here, however, it was intended to follow a different criterion, given the seriousness of the context: it was intended to confer criminal importance on incitement. But not to a general incitement: to the incitement to commit torture, provided that it happens in the contexts characterized by the presence of two public officials or of two in charge of public service. Obviously I say two not because they have to be necessarily two; they can also be one hundred or a thousand, provided that the incitement takes place between an officer and another public official, or between one in charge of public service and another in charge of public service. I conclude by saying that we have intended to expand the publicly qualified subjects by extending the main qualification, that of the public official, to the qualification of the public service officer, precisely because we wanted to cover also the responsibility of the subjects who operate, for example, within the residences for elderly or hospitals and shelters, where they are (obviously under conditions of handicapped defense) admitted or interned particularly weak subjects. The rule would otherwise have been unconstitutional, due to a disparity that would have resulted in a probable judgment of unreasonableness of the rules. We have therefore foreseen that the public official, deemed punishable, should not be discriminated against, compared perhaps to the nurse (who is responsible for a public service), otherwise deemed free to commit acts of violence or threat against those in charge. I conclude by saying that I am satisfied, as I believe all the senators here must be, with a substantial consensus in this House in adopting this particular provision. Obviously this consensus is natural, and indeed the positive aspect of the parliamentary debate, which must be stimulated and enhanced, regardless of the amendments, on which the rapporteur will of course be able to give any explanation as to the opinions that he will be able to express. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u84	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u85	Mr President, the Government has followed this measure very closely. I would like to thank the Commission for its justice, the President, the rapporteur and all its members, because - as several distinguished senators have said in their speeches and as I would like to stress once again - this rule has been awaited since 1984, i.e. the United Nations Convention which has been mentioned several times. It should therefore be stressed that this is an important moment for the Senate and for Parliament, as a rule is introduced that has been expected since then, thus covering an existing regulatory vacuum until today. It is true that some of these conducts today could have led to crimes of injury, private violence, threat and ill-treatment, but the gap remained, so much so that Europe asked us to intervene. Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights has on several occasions condemned Italy for torture and therefore it was necessary to intervene and regulate this case. Many examples have been given, and finally I want to link with what Senator D'Ascola has said about the people who have a disabled defense and are therefore in difficulty. Let us think of many episodes, not only those rightly indicated by Senator Lumia, but also of what we have seen happen, in some news events, in some nursing homes, against helpless, elderly people and therefore in a situation of difficulty, which suffered this type of violence. With regard to the various reports, the Government will give a favourable opinion on some improvements. The legislative choice shared by the Government, however, with regard to the crime of torture, was not to create a crime of its own: in this is the difference with the incitement of the public officer to commit the torture, referred to in article 613-b. While the latter is a crime of its own, the crime of torture is introduced as a common crime, then possibly aggravated. Among other things, what characterizes this crime are the general malice and the seriousness of torture and therefore the acute suffering inflicted on those who are deprived of personal freedom, and not so much the aim pursued by those who torture, of which certainly can be taken into account, but when quantifying the penalty and not as an element of the crime. There are, therefore, a number of novelties, which have already been explained. I would like to thank Senator Buemi for withdrawing the amendment aimed at abolishing the adjective "cute" in the definition of the suffering caused. The rapporteur has already focused on this point, but it is important that this is defined, although the concept of acute suffering, according to some, may seem indeterminate, although medical science has tried to define it. However, it is also important to give a signal on the type of suffering, since these are crimes that will rightly be severely punished, and as has been pointed out, even in terms of punishment (I remember that if the perpetrator voluntarily causes death, life imprisonment is foreseen). Precisely because we are talking about severe penalties and serious crimes, the Senate Justice Commission has identified and defined the conducts. In concluding, it is also important to Article 3, which is another step towards Europe and international treaties, with a view also to the European Semester, and which excludes being expelled or extradited to countries where those who are expelled or extradited risk being subjected to torture. It is an important rule, which I would like to stress in view of the European semester, because not only do we adhere to the 1984 Convention by introducing the crime of torture here - then there will obviously be a further parliamentary passage in the Chamber of Deputies - but, excluding extradition to countries where there is a risk of being subjected to torture, we approve an appropriate rule, also in implementation of constitutional principles, such as those enshrined not only in Article 10 (3) of the Constitution, but also in Article 27 (3). This is another point which must be pointed out, as is Article 2, which deals with a procedural issue, but which is important, and which concerns the statements and information made by the victim and obtained by torture, which cannot be used at the procedural level. I say this about the right process, the right to defence and therefore the guarantee, also in the sense of guarantee: principles that we want to emphasize, because on the one hand we are going to tighten up the current rules and introduce, with serious penalties, a new crime, as we were asked to do; on the other hand, however, we are looking at defensive guarantees and the right process. In fact, Article 2 - on which I draw your attention - provides that the statements that the victim can make at that time (i.e. related to the torture offence) are used at the trial level on the charge of the accused only in order to prove his criminal responsibility: I want to stress this because it is a very guaranteeing rule that takes account of all the balances. Therefore, the Government is open to welcoming with a favourable opinion some of the amendments that go in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Albertini, Buemi and D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u86	Colleagues, considering the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u89	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the citizens of Montignoso, gathered for years in a committee, and we with them, contest the creation of a landfill for special non-dangerous waste made thanks to the permissions of the Provinces of Massa Carrara and Lucca in the former Fornace quarry, a karst site with high landslides close to the naturalistic oasis of the lake of Porta, a wetland of high environmental value, landscape, historical and fauna, site of regional and Community interest. A public investigation, initiated by the province of Massa, unfortunately, when the reclassification from the site for inert only to the site for special non-dangerous waste had already taken place, has decreed very clearly that that site was not suitable for any type of landfill. On the other hand, even today, special waste, including delicate mirror codes, continues to be conferred on that site, despite an appeal, promoted by the Committee of Citizens, against the reclassification, which will soon go to the Council of State's council. We trust that the appeal will take into account everything that has emerged in recent years and that the word "end" will be finally put to a dark chapter of bad-politics and bad-administration. The landfill operator continues to request that new types of waste be given, requests that are accepted on time, by weakening the environmental impact assessment - in particular the cumulative impact - through the shameful and illegal phenomenon of the fragmentation of the project. We are concerned about the waste granted, including land and rocks from reclamation sites (and therefore deeply contaminated by heavy metals and other chemicals), construction materials containing asbestos, various types of sludge, resulting from dredging or drilling, granite jam and excavation land. All types with a high class of danger within the meaning of the European Directive 67/548 and according to an investigative opinion of the ARPAT of Massa and Carrara, never taken into consideration. At the suggestion of the local activists of the 5 Star Movement of Massa and Montignoso a few days ago I submitted the question 4-01703 to the Minister of the Environment, from which we expect, in a short time, a firm position and clear answers on this matter. To confirm the delicacy and gravity of the situation, I would like to point out that the council member of Montignoso Paolo Lenzetti of the 5 Star Movement was, for his positions contrary to the reclassification, at first unlawfully excluded from the council commission of control on the landfill, then reinstated following recourse to the TAR and subsequently threatened with death with an attempt of aggression by the chairman of the commission itself. There is an investigation into this. I conclude by expressing the support and closeness of all of us to Councillor Paolo Lenzetti of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-201.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.
