ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported) I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes. Verification of the statutory number PETROCELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00259 by Senator Angioni and other senators on the situation in the Alcoa. [[Brusio.]] I call Senator Angioni to explain it, if his colleagues will allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Vice Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years Sardinia has experienced an exponential increase in all the critical factors that, even before the crisis, made its economy particularly fragile both in terms of economic development and employment. In just one year, some 43,000 jobs have been lost and 120,000 unemployed have now been lost. I remember that Sardinia has a population of just over one million and 600,000 inhabitants. The Sulcis-Iglesiente records even more alarming data in both the number of unemployed and the cessation of business activities. In particular, there is a destructuring of the industrial system that, although with significant limits, has represented for some decades the most important lever of the economic fabric of that territory. The motion that we are debating in the Senate today has above all this framework. Portovesme, a company in the province of Portovesme and the mobilization of its workers and their families, is therefore a symbol for the entire territory and for the entire region. Alcoa Srl is an American multinational world leader in the aluminium sector present in Portovesme since 1996. Since the production stopped, manifesting the intention to sell the plants to a new buyer, more than 1,000 people, between direct workers and workers of the contracting companies (almost totally subjected today to social shock absorbers), live the nightmare of the definitive closure. In addition, the loss of employment of the same number of employed or self-employed persons. With this motion we ask first of all the Government, with the help of the Regional Council of Sardinia, to carry out an action in order to prevent the arrest of the still active plants of Sernam and, at the same time, to be active part in the search for a new national or foreign subject that offers itself in the purchase of the company. We are aware of the efforts the Government is making to make the system of shock absorbers fairer and more usable. Yet, together with a comprehensive reform, one cannot fail to consider that these instruments represent at this stage the only form of economic support for thousands of families and the hope of the future for an entire community. For this reason, in motion 259 we ask that the Government undertake every effort to find the resources to ensure the coverage of the social shock absorbers for Sernam and the companies of the induced. This commitment must be aimed at making every effort to find the missing resources also to cover the derogation fund and the mobility for 2014 for the thousands of workers waiting to return to production throughout Sardinia. I would like to point out that this motion is not intended to marry a system of growth based exclusively on traditional industry, nor to favour the destinies of a company to the detriment of others; indeed, it is true that Sardinia needs to retrain and modernise its production system, and industrial in particular. Among other things, today also the service sector, services, crafts, trade and construction have enormous problems in terms of turnover and employment. With this motion we want to say that there cannot be, even in Sardinia, full development without industry, that is, abandoning an industrial system that can compete with other production systems. From this point of view, I consider the opposition, which some have been making for too many years, between a modern industrial system and the possibility of greater tourist and cultural development, which is the true vocation of that territory, or the need for a powerful plan of reclamations of areas indiscriminately subjected to logics of environmental violence, for which we must be firm in imposing sanctions on companies that have been caused by pollution of that territory. It is therefore good to point out that there can be no competition between these two aspects. In conclusion, Mr President, allow me, in particular, to thank, in addition to my colleagues from Sardinia, the President of the PD Zanda Group, who strongly wanted this motion, and all my non-Sardinian colleagues who, in signing it, intended to attest to the participation and solidarity with the demands that the workers of Sulcis and of the whole of Sardinia address today to the whole country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u12	Mr President, as is foreseen in today's agenda, the motion 1-00251, tabled by the Misso-SEL Group, which essentially has a lot of content similar to that just outlined by my colleague Mr Angioni, will also be discussed shortly. Therefore, I would like to briefly express a sort of total assonance with what has just been illustrated, particularly with the aim of intervening on one of the most important business crisis situations in the territory of Sulcis-Iglesiente, the one related to Alcoa, which has strongly affected the entire aluminium supply chain. It is a chain that in Sardinia had the most important and consistent production point and served a part of the national market (in fact it was not even able to fully meet the needs of our market of aluminium material). Yet, in a territory like that, this supply chain, Alcoa's production activity, despite being a strategic segment for the national economy, has been put in crisis and has been in a state of difficulty for years. New investors are sought, but the action of the Government (I refer to the action of the Governments in general) from the point of view of institutional mediation still seems insufficient to us today: it needs a greater consistency not only to save jobs, but also to save productive vocations that are realized in those places. Sulcis-Iglesiente is one of the most important industrial poles of the entire country: on the mining vocation the industrial and energy pole has been built and developed. That territory is destined for this function, and we believe that it must be maintained, intervening also on the technological level in order to improve the production cycle, in order to allow that production cycle is no longer heavily impacting on the environment, and therefore operating also through the experimentation of eco-sustainable solutions, environmentally more coherent with the way of thinking and producing modern. For this reason, Mr President, we welcome Mr Angioni's motion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u13	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u14	Mr President, one can only share the words of my previous colleagues, partly because the situation has reached such a dramatic point that it is really necessary to intervene. I therefore ask you, in order not to bother my fellow Members with further words identical to those already spoken, to be authorized to attach the full text of my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u15	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to say at once that I share the spirit of the motion tabled by Senator Angioni and other senators. This issue concerns one of the most difficult crises in our industrial system, in particular because it concerns a sector, that of aluminium, which is experiencing a time of international difficulty. The fall in aluminium prices in recent years has led some of the companies of the multinationals in the sector to find themselves in a situation of difficulty: this is the case of the said company, for which, in January 2012, the multinational decided to close. The dispute began with a drastic decision of the company and the opening of the mobility procedure. You will remember how it was succeeded, through a long and difficult negotiation in which the Government played an important role of dissolution of some of the main nodes that appeared, to convert the mobility procedure into an integration fund for cessation of activity until 31 December 2014; to obtain from the company the commitment to maintain in efficiency the plants until 31 December 2013, then prolonged until 30 June next; to operate for a cession of the plant to an interested investor. A complex phase of investor research was then opened. There were three or four expressions of interest, which, however, have gradually come up against objective difficulties. To clarify one important point at once, I must say that those objective difficulties are not related to the price of energy. The Government has immediately taken the commitment, pointed out to the companies concerned, that the Italian legislation allows discounts on the price of energy to align the price of energy for aluminium with that practised in the countries where the main competing companies reside. The difficulties are linked - as I said - to the overall situation of the aluminium market, to the need for a general reorganization of the activity of the Portovesme plant, as well as to the huge investments needed on that site. At this moment the deepening of a manifestation of interest still in the field, which the Government is urging and following with great attention. For this reason, too, we believe that the indication contained in the motion for a resolution to obtain the efficient maintenance of the implants of Sernam beyond 30 June, in order to give time to the completion of the preliminary phase and negotiation with the manifestation of interest in place. At the conclusion of this brief summary of the situation, I express my opinion on the commitments set out in the motion. The first commitment, aimed at assuming every initiative aimed at supporting the entrepreneurial activities of the Sardinia Region, is welcomed. The second commitment, to which I have just referred, aimed at undertaking, in agreement with the Region of Sardinia and with the trade union representatives, any appropriate initiative that allows to maintain in efficiency the plants of Sernam Srl beyond the date of 30 June 2014, in the perspective of a resumption of the production and, therefore, of the safeguard of the jobs, is welcomed. The third commitment is also accepted, but with a rewording. As you know, the derogation fund for the companies of the induced is not the responsibility of the national government, but involves the competences of the Region. Therefore, the rewording of the third commitment would be as follows: "to strive, within the framework of its own competences, so that the workers of Sernam Srl and those of the companies of the induced one can enjoy for the year 2014 of the social shock absorbers and the other forms of support to the employment so that they can feel part of a plan of relaunching the productive activity".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u17	I ask the presenter of the motion whether he intends to accept the reformulation proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u18	Mr President, we welcome the mention of the Deputy Minister, whom we thank for the lucid reconstruction of the case of the Alcohol and the whole territory and for the sensitivity once again demonstrated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u22	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this intervention is particularly important, as it is a situation of a not recent working crisis. That is precisely why I believe that there should be a reflection that goes beyond the episodic aspect (I spoke about it just yesterday with my colleague Mr Uras, who has been dealing with those lands for a long time). I have to say the truth: I was sorry not to be able to reach a document or at any rate to a general discussion that also understood the situation of the Sulcis-Iglesiente, because clearly a solution cannot be seen except as a whole. To look only at the punctual aspect of the Alcoa, neglecting the fact that it is located in a territory that has wide margins of difficulty and that we find ourselves at a time when the hours of general Cassa Integrazione throughout the country have already reached more than half a million, obviously means limited to a very partial vision of a problem that instead I think I can define, without question of denial, the worst that this country has ahead, that is that of the occupation. The Government, which gave a favourable opinion, would allow me to make a remark first: Mr De Vincenti, this is yet another motion that we approve in the Senate, not only on this subject, but also on others; if the trend that we have experienced so far will not be reversed, obviously the motions, as well as the approved agendas will remain dead letter. We would not want this to be yet another illusion or - let us be allowed - the last firework left in the warehouse of an electoral campaign: it would really be a mistake, first of all social, to give partial and illusory answers to workers living in a dramatic situation. Mr De Vincenti, I would also like to make one more point: I received an answer yesterday to a question addressed to the Government exactly 13 months ago, concerning Sea Handling and the 2,500 letters of dismissal left. It took 13 months to arrive at a response, months in which the government, the stakeholders and clearly also the scenario have changed in the meantime. Here are two aspects that therefore do not coincide: on the one hand, a motion presented in a very fast way, without the possibility for the other to carry out a general discussion on the territory, and, on the other, a territory that has addressed requests to know its future more than a year ago, but receives answers only partial and now dated, more than a year later. This is to say that if the government wants to be serious, it cannot operate in a phenomenal or episodic way. Alcoa is a situation that cannot be settled simply with the answer that we are finding a foreign investor: even here, enough with this illusion of solutions that come from outside and, let's say, even fantastic, of entrepreneurs who come from abroad to invest in the territory, making the industry grow again. The real risk, which we have already seen in other parts of the country (in this sense, the example of Alitalia is there to prove it), is that instead of entrepreneurs, we will then find ourselves financiers, who take and exploit the opportunity, but certainly, when the opportunity of the market changes, they give up the grip, so the social problem comes back to the citizens and the coffers of the treasury again. So, this cannot be the solution; just as it cannot be an easy solution that proposes for Sardinia to convert everything, to focus on tourism, so we are all happy and happy and we have solved the problem. This is not the case, because, again, without a general vision, we forget that Sardinia itself is losing tourist quotas today, because going to the island has become an unsustainable cost for many holidaymakers, even small ones. There can be no solution that does not take into account the whole system as a whole, but a general vision is needed, which also takes into account what has happened in other countries. I can think of a parallel to what happened in Great Britain during the Thatcher period: when there were disturbances in the coal mines, the same were closed, because they were no longer efficient from the point of view of production. Well, let's not make parallels hoping to find solutions in the Thatcher way, because clearly the country is different, and especially Sardinia, which is a noble land, even with a great independent spirit, and deserves not to be a financial and entrepreneurial colony, especially of foreigners. The government must therefore take a responsibility, that is not simply to give a positive response to a motion, giving the satisfaction - I do not want Senator Angioni and the other presenters - of being able to brandish it on the territory saying: we arrived before SEL, we did it, not others did. We must give serious and convincing answers. This can also be a convincing solution for the rest of the country, which expects not an extraordinary or not, but industrial solutions. Vice-Minister De Vincenti pointed out that this is no longer a question of energy costs: it is clear then that the issue lies elsewhere and, once again, I repeat that one cannot fail to look at the whole territory. So, obviously in supporting this motion, because the North League will turn its back on those who seek their social ransom and their ransom of freedom in work, we invite the Government not to take advantage of these tools to give a sugar pill saying that we have responded to the problems. Problems are solved by doing, and not by saying. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u25	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I declare the Misto-SEL Group's vote in favour of motion 259 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u28	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, the New Centre Group will also vote in favour, for the reasons set out in motion 259 (text 2). There are hundreds of families who are apprehensioned by the question of questioning the question of the question of how to deal with the question of how to deal with We are absolutely sensitive to these problems, aware that there is no magic wand and that, therefore, the problem is not easy to solve. It is clear that the government must take responsibility in this case. The time has come to put an end to this ballet of meetings, discussions and concerts without being able to get a precise response. These families, these workers must necessarily have answers, and the aluminium cycle, which risks interrupting, not only in Sardinia but also in Italy, must, if possible, continue its productive activity. Clearly we are absolutely opposed to nationalizations, also because we would go back, but the Government must compete and participate in order to resume this productive cycle. This is one of the poorest regions in Italy, where unemployment rates are well above average. Therefore, even for a gesture not only of solidarity with these workers, it is necessary to take decisions, which must be urgent, considering that, at the end of this year, the social shock absorbers for these families and for these workers will end and it will be necessary, from 1 January 2015, to have certainties. Otherwise, these precarious workers will indeed risk hunger, along with their families. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of motion 259 (text 2). [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u31	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I am voting in favour of motion 259 (text 2). We also thank the signatories of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u34	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement Group voted in favour of motion 259 (text 2). I am voting in favour, even if the question is dealt with in the commitments requested by the Government, only as an occupational emergency, nothing marking the identity of the company component, the Aluminium Company of America (the Alcoa, in fact). This multinational is a world leader in the extraction and refining of bauxite and has been operating since the 1960s to grab the main deposits in South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. It has a history, therefore, closely linked to some passages of the nasty imperialist policy of the United States in the world: Indonesia 1965, Chile 1973 and, not least, Paraguay 2012. It closes two foundries in the United States between 2004 and 2005 and goes on to produce in Iceland, where electricity for plants is supplied exclusively and where, according to the quotas related to the Kyoto Protocol, it can increase pollution and CO2 emissions into the atmosphere by up to 10%. We are rightly being called upon by the employees of the latter to ensure that jobs and productivity conditions are safeguarded. I would also have greatly appreciated the fact that the text of the motion contained elements for overcoming over-productionism, which still does not take into account the state of pollution and degradation of the environment and resources. It owns more than 200 plants in 31 countries of the world and, not to be underestimated, has interests that go far beyond the main industrial activity; first of all, in the military sector with Sernam Defence, which produces special alloys for armoured, drones, ships and war aircraft. It produces elements of the fuselage and wings of the legendary F35 fighter, which we have mentioned here very often lately. It is therefore a purely strategic decision, rather than an economic one, to transfer Portovesme's production to Saudi Arabia: a totally private strategic operation, to which the foolish attitude of the Dini, Prodi and D'Alema Governments has contributed considerably over the years. In 1996 the Government sold Alumix, a group with State participation, to the state itself. With acts of the Amato, Prodi and Berlusconi Governments, it receives energy from ENEL at very discounted prices, facilities of about 2.8 billion precisely from these discounted prices of energy, paid however by Italian citizens with increases in bills; 2.8 billion that end up in the coffers of Sernam, that first exploits the Sardinian workers, all the users of the electricity network, produces private profits with public facilities and then goes away, but ready to go back to Italy inside the F35, that will cost all of us several other billions of euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u37	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking to announce my vote in favour and that of my Group and, at a personal level, to endorse, in agreement with the spirit and content of the motion tabled by Mr Angioni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u40	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the very broad consensus that Senator Angioni's motion seems to me to have aroused in this House tells us what the social significance of the problem she has highlighted is. I will take a few more minutes than other colleagues in the meantime to say that I appreciated the line of Deputy Minister De Vincenti and also to acknowledge the Deputy Minister of Government Policy that he personally is supporting, that he has succeeded in many serious crisis situations, last of which the Electrolux affair. Of course, the satisfaction will be full, as far as the question is concerned, only when it is successfully resolved; before that time we cannot say that we are satisfied, not even in the face of such a visible effort on the part of the Government. I want to give a personal indication. Mr President, in recent times the most touching experience I have had, the most difficult passage to accept humanly, politically and socially, the place where I have understood how much can be dignified and proud even in very difficult situations, when the same minimum conditions are lacking to guarantee to their family what is necessary for sustenance, where I have been able to touch this dignity with my hand, was the visit that I made to the workers of the latter, who for more than two years have been living under a tent in front of the gates of their company, asking them to be given a job, which they have lost not because of lack of professionalism, because of absence from the workplace, but because of objective conditions, because of a crisis in the aluminium sector, which the Deputy Minister has now described so well, and because of the lack of investments that have prevented the establishment from that indispensable renewal without which such complex and refined industries cannot havedevelopment. But it is also in crisis for the unpreparedness of our world, of Europe and also of Italy, to the challenge of new technologies and especially those of globalization and globalization. Economics, industry and the mobility of the world of work are so new that they cannot be tackled without a profound renewal of the broad political lines, trends and public interventions. Sardinia, in this scenario, is a region in which the crisis has made itself felt and still feels much more than the rest of our country. Just think - and this is well said in the text of Senator Angioni's motion - that from 2012 to 2013 43,000 jobs have been lost and in the age group 15 to 24 years 54 percent of children do not work. It is the most serious economic and social crisis in Sardinia since the post-war period and has devastating social effects. In recent years the migratory flow from Sardinia to the continent and to other countries of Europe has even resumed. This impoverishes a region that has the right, like the rest of our country, to an orderly development, to jobs, to see the expectations of its people realized. Mr President, we come from a very important political fact. Last Sunday, our country voted for Europe and I want to interpret this vote, given to such a large extent to our party, and the vote given to the other parties that are sitting here today in the Senate and who have spoken so clearly this morning in favour of the workers of BNFL. This vote expresses a political direction that obliges us to find solutions to these dramatic problems and must force us to find them within our country. That is why I am still asking Deputy Minister De Vincenti to commit himself to the solution of this serious and emblematic case. But this vote must also commit us to doing what the President-in-Office of the Council has announced: a radical change in European policies. We must be aware that on our own we will never be able to solve such profound problems that they need such substantial investments. We must therefore change the national perspective but also the lines of European policy. I believe that the vote that the Democratic Party and the rest of the Senate will shortly give to approve this motion must be understood in this way: a political indication binding on the Government to operate in national policies and to act representing the will of our country in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u43	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u44	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 259 (text 2), tabled by Senator Angioni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00251 by Senator Uras and other senators, 1-00260 by Senator Serra and other senators, and 1-00261 by Senator Floris and other senators, on the employment crisis in Sulcis-Iglesiente. I would like to say that the Presidency has received a rewording of motion 251. I call Senator Uras to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u46	Mr President, by overcoming the part of the premises of the motion, I will use a few seconds to remind that the economic crisis that crosses Sardinia is a productive crisis and of the industrial system that concerns many companies, from the north to the south of the Region, from Porto Torres to Cagliari, from Ottana to Sulcis; and also in Sulcis it concerns several companies, those of the aluminium supply chain (I think of EurAllumina), waiting, as we know, for the ratification of the program agreement on environmental issues and the signing of the development contract already instructed by the Ministry of Economic Development and which involves Invitalia and EurAllumina itself. It is a situation that recalls the condition of difficulties of 700 workers: 300 on the induced and 400 on the productive cycle. Sulcis is a highly affected reality, with situations such as that of Rockwool Italy that have basically exhausted: rock wool has disappeared as a production activity, it has been transferred to another part of Europe with the economic and financial support of the European Union in the relocation operation. An abandonment of the Italian market and, at the same time, of a production line that was present in the country. All industrial initiatives that have benefited - we must remember - from public support and an economic and financial exposition of the State, from also organizational and operational aid of the Region and the local autonomy; initiatives that had to be a response to the deindustrialization that had suffered Sulcis with the abandonment of mining and mining activity and with the promise, never realized, of the conversion. Reconversion, for example, with respect to tourist use or useful for the definition and experimentation of new mining technologies that can also be exported, tested in a favourable environment. In the meantime, in that territory, professional qualities and skills had matured that could be made available. I thank the presidents of all the groups, the presidency of the Senate and the Senate as a whole because it is devoting a few hours, one morning, a day to the themes of Sardinia and Sulcis; themes still partly neglected - such as those related to the interventions to be made following the recent events of calamitous - but which (I must recognize this) in this Senate find moments of discussion always very high, always very helpful, always very productive. With the motion that we have introduced we ask the Government to assume the necessary initiatives to relaunch the economic activities of the Sardinian territory and Sulcis, verifying the possibility to activate every initiative that stops the definitive abandonment of every industrial productive activity. We cannot think that Sardinia is just a beach to place an umbrella. Sardinia has the right to participate in the country's overall production capacity, to have its own industrial system, grafted into the wider one of Italy and Europe. In fact, it can be produced and made industry also with techniques and technologies that promote the sustainability of the production cycle. We call on the Government to fully implement every public-funded plan and project. There is the Sulcis plan that we would like to fill with better content and make immediately operational. We wonder why Invitalia, who should have supported this Plan, did not open a door in Sulcis; workers of the former Sviluppo Italia Sardegna were transferred to Rome, while they could be employed in their home land in a support desk to the activity connected to the implementation of the Plan. It would also be appropriate to ratify the programme agreement on environmental issues that also involve EurAllumina, one of the most important companies in the aluminium supply chain. The production capacity, competence and commitment of those workers should be recovered. We therefore call on the trade unions in any case and quickly to open discussion and consultation tables in order to find solutions so that all those temporary workers expelled from the production system, employed in contractors, become an integral part of the processes of reintegration into work. We ask the Government to build tools to ensure that all workers in companies in crisis at least access to social shock absorbers whose subsidies are promptly credited. We are still calling for the government to urgently address - we have already talked about this - the critical situation of the latter's workers and their families. The motion proposes to the Senate and the Government to proceed with determination to activate the interventions that have already been instructed, but that perhaps they are better specified and that, together with the Government, they must see involved the Region, the local autonomy, the Sardinian productive and entrepreneurial system so that those instruments already identified are made immediately operational and are actually productive of benefits for the workers and their families. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u47	I call Senator Serra to explain motion No 260.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u48	Mr President, it is an emotion today to listen to so many speeches about our Sardinia and about a problem - that of the Alcoa - that we have been discussing for years now, seeking solutions that can solve the situations we have been talking about. We're talking about an industry, the Alcoa, as if it were small, there in Portovesme. However, it is not a small industry: it is an industry that is around the world and that has very high productions. I also saw the workers: I knew them and I saw their looks; I know their families. They do not simply ask to be, as they say, reset in a company, which, by the way, does nothing but be absent; they also ask that their territory be respected. This is why in our motion we also wanted to indicate a commitment of action for the Region towards all the parties involved and all the companies that in this territory - our Sardinia - are completely unheard of. In fact, like the Alcoa, also the Rockwool, the Portovesme, Porto Torres and Ottana, are nothing but industries that have deceived people: they bought territories and - after - everything was abandoned. If you had to go and see and check the condition of Ottana's territory, there would be tears. As for this motion, one should try to understand, first of all, that one cannot continue to massacre this territory, because places, landscapes, coasts and seas that before were blue are now red because the sludges of EurAllumina have created red stagnations. The populations of Portovesme, Carbonia and Iglesias are beginning to get sick more and more, with thyroid problems, and the number of leukemias is absurd. Data from the ASL of the Municipality of Carbonia show an increase in neoplastic diseases in the territories of Sulcis, ranging from 1,825 cases recorded in 2006 to 3,044 cases recorded in 2013, in particular in the city of Carbonia, where between November and December of 2013 there was an increase in cases of 100 units. Among these units there are not only adults, but children. I repeat: there are children. Sardinia, therefore, cannot simply be taken and discussed here as if it were an ordinary land: it is a land that belongs to all of us, and we all ask that these territories be re-evaluated. Deindustrialization should be a priority, because this land lives not only of industry, but also of landscapes, land and environment, as well as all Italy. In this country people have been fooled by saying: come into the industries to work and abandon the countryside and territories that do not give you work. This was an illusion against the environment, territory and life and also against dignity. Now, in fact, these people are like the Rockwool workers, locked up in that miserable cave together with the mice, and like the Alcoa workers, who sleep in tents, and it is shameful and humiliating. It is humiliating even simply to visit them: it is humiliating for us. Mr Vice-Minister, we need serious and not fake action: serious action must be re-established both at the industrial level and at the level of subsidies, with serious operations. I repeat: a serious commitment is needed. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u49	I call Senator Floris to explain motion 261.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to thank the presidency of the Senate, as my colleague Mr Uras has already done, for having wished to dedicate a morning of the House's work to Sardinia. I also thank the Undersecretary De Vincenti for his presence, of which we appreciate the ability and the will to solve the problem that we are going to deal with on this day, being the motions, although presented by several senators, motivated by the only spirit of industrial recovery of a territory. The industrial recovery concerns the poorest province in Italy, Sulcis, which lives between emergencies and hopes of recovery, which fights against an unprecedented industrial crisis and wears the black shirt in terms of unemployment at national level. This, of course, produces heavy social effects, which inexorably result in a paradoxism of the whole Sardinian territory, where the working system has collapsed to the peak in the last five years, triggering a process of stasis on an effective economic recovery of our island. It is a catastrophe for our entire economy. Sulcis is the emblem of this widespread pathology of inemployment and forced inoperosity of work that crosses Sardinia without relaunching it and stabs it with data on the jobless that claims a single action: an urgent reversal of course. I refer to 17.5% of young people who live without the certainty of finding employment, without the dignity of those who have a job, without the constitutional right to see it recognised, without the possibility of seeing a future employment beyond the horizon. As opposed, crime grows, dreams of recovery and recovery crumble. I refer to the 30,000 unemployed, out of a total of 130,000 inhabitants, who are dependent on the pensions of their family members or, in any case, on their families. In the Sulcis-Iglesiente, what should be the land of industry, work is lacking because the productive fabric is collapsed and is paralyzed because no action has been put in place for its safeguard and industrial initiatives for its sustainability. The Sulcis plan (which includes criticalities of the Provinces and a package of measures to counter them) remains on the table of the Government and the interventions for the safeguarding of the productive fabric and the industrial initiatives for the sustainability of the territory, which had been promised by the various Governments that have so far succeeded, still do not take off and remain on paper. Among the knots to be dissolved by the Executive I think of the aluminium supply chain, which has been sabotaged by disputes that are still open since the times of the Technical Government of Monti. The Alcoa, the factory that produces aluminum, remains without a master, a ship without captain: it has only potential buyers, but they pull back every time, discouraged from putting investments in the field on what has always been the Italian manufacturing pole of aluminum. This is what my previous colleagues, Senators Uras and Angioni, strongly asked for, namely to consider the asset of aluminium as a strategic sector for the nation. I ask that for EurAllumina, the primary link of the sector, the dispute be really downhill and that the focal points on which we will finally arrive, after a bloodbath for the workers in Cassa Integrazione, to the resolution of the emergency be respected. The Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the Environment should sign by 30 June the programme agreement for the environmental authorisation of the so-called basin, i.e. the storage site for processing residues. I also call for the contract with Invitalia to be signed within the same period, which provides for productive investments of 75 million euros out of a total of 190 to restart the plant and make it competitive in the metalworking market. Only in this way will our workers be able to resume their activity, give light to their families, because social shock absorbers are a palliative to work, have strict deadlines on the extensionability (they expire on December 31, 2014) and cannot represent the solution to unemployment, but only of the momentary lifesavers. In the province of Sulcis-Iglesiente there are many temporary workers who cannot benefit from unemployment benefit. For them too, it would be useful to think of forms of employment so that, by safeguarding the aluminium sector, they can resume working in the absence of social shock absorbers intended for them. The question of Portovesme and Carbosulcis (for which today will finally arrive a breath of oxygen with the allocation of 8.5 million euros for the safety of the coal mine of Nuraxi Figus) is the mirror of an industrial reality that has suffered a heavy backlash due to the lack of strategic actions that today we are here to ask the Government to relaunch with a solid industrial plan the territory. Finally, I ask the Government to put in place strategic actions for the economic and industrial recovery of Sulcis through a technical-political table, to which the Region of Sardinia and the social forces can participate, that individuals in the aluminium pole a strategic asset of our country. For Sulcis, I call for concrete action to encourage economic recovery and development based on the necessary and indispensable environmental recovery of areas which the mining industries (even those which produce poorly used aluminum today) have devastated. The motion of which I am the first signatory suggests a series of initiatives, so I ask all my colleagues to vote in favour and to the Government a solid and substantial commitment to the recovery of Sulcis.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u51	I declare the debate open. Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a situation, that of the Sulcis-Iglesiente, which is truly dramatic. It is a territory in which the level of unemployment (as has already been mentioned) has reached a worrying 18%, with peaks, recorded precisely in the Carbonia-Iglesias region, which make this a truly dramatic situation. Of course, I agree with the motions we are debating today and I will vote in favour of all three, although there are some differences that I would like to stress. For example, in motion 251 (text 2), of which Senator Uras is the first signatory, we are talking about the danger of interruption and the definitive abandonment of all eco-sustainable industrial activity. I would like to point out that there are currently no eco-sustainable industrial activities in Sulcis-Iglesiente. They're all highly polluting activities. Therefore, surely, together with a plan to revive the productive activity, it is also necessary a strong intervention in order to make it possible to reverse also the data on diseases, on the onset of cancers, which shows very high levels in this area. In addition, there has been no mention of anything else relating to the latter and which needs to be said. It is now clear that this American company is working to leave and not give its factory to anyone else. It does not want to give in because a resumption of activity in the aluminum sector in Sardinia would compete with the other factories of the Alcoa scattered around the world. Alcoa is a company that, with the budget it has, could buy itself, if it wanted, the whole of Sardinia; therefore, if it wanted, it could quietly re-launch its production in that area. He doesn't want to do it for his own special interests. Perhaps you should have a little more courage, as perhaps you have had for Ilva, and check what has been the behavior of the company in recent years, as well as that of the properties of other companies of Sulcis-Iglesiente, and start some intervention a little more courageous to involve and recall to their responsibilities the leaders of these companies. In fact, the latter have been planning, for some years now, a disposal, making sure - in particular those of the Alcoa - that the activity of production of aluminium does not resume. In my opinion, however, even if there is strong corrective action to prevent the continuation of pollution in the area, this activity could still be productive and convenient. Of course, we can only hope that some indications contained in the motions under consideration will be taken seriously by the Government, bearing in mind that we have no allies among the corporate leaders of these factories; therefore, we must work in agreement between the State, Region, local authorities and workers to try to intervene, very often even to the detriment of the company companies that act for very different interests and distant from those of the population of Sardinia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u53	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward. I recommend that the motion-makers pay some attention, because I believe that requests for reformulation will be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u54	Mr President, the three motions, first signed by Senators Uras, Serra and Floris, face one of the most difficult territorial situations in our country and which, on the other hand, is the backdrop to the Alcoa crisis, about which we spoke with reference to motion 259 (text 2), tabled by Senator Angioni and other Senators. In the awareness that the resumption of the territory of Sulcis is a key element in order to enhance and not send dispersed the working capacities of the population of Sulcis, that it has important industrial and productive traditions, and also in the awareness that for the same solution of the crisis it is important that the territorial context as a whole regains perspectives of development, the Government intervened promoting, together with the Region of Sardinia, the so-called Sulcis plan, a protocol of understanding undersigned by Government, Region of Sardinia, Province of Carbonia-Iglesias and Municipalities of Sulcis, 13 November 2012. That plan provided for several blocks of intervention: first, interventions of infrastructural character, competence of the Region of Sardinia (and from this deliberated), for a total amount of 168 million euros; interventions of rehabilitation and reclamation, always of competence of the Region, for an amount of 178 million euros; interventions in support of the productive supply chains. In this regard, interventions are planned for the enhancement of the agri-food supply chain, with 10 million euros, within the competence of the Sardinia Region and the refinancing of development contracts with companies in the area, for 90 million euros, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development (I will refer later to this last point). Always within this block of interventions, it has been realizing the ban and then followed the implementation of the International Competition of ideas for the growth and sustainable development of Sulcis, to which almost 56 million euros are dedicated. I would like to focus on development contracts, because Senator Uras rightly stressed the importance of EurAllumina society. It is in fact being defined a development contract, already very advanced, for the reopening of EurAllumina, stopped for several years, which produces alumina, i.e. an intermediate good for the production of aluminium. In November 2012, alongside the Sulcis Plan protocol, we launched a week after the Memorandum of Understanding with Rusal, the multinational owner of EurAllumina, for an investment plan that allows the reopening of the plant. In this regard, I would point out that we will work with the development contract, which is being defined with EurAllumina, and that several procedural aspects have already been overcome; there is a residual one, to which Senator Uras refers, which is that of the agreement on environmental safety, in particular the so-called Red Sludge Basin. 11:08 a.m. (continued DE VINCENTI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development) On this point I will return later, in response to the commitments of Senator Uras' motion. The call for ideas was made and the results were published on 19 September, with the proclamation of six winning ideas and ten mentioned ideas. Following recent contacts with the Region of Sardinia, the implementation of these interventions is being banned, thus committing 55.7 million euros. Further interventions that we have linked to the Sulcis plan relate in particular to the urban free zone. In this respect, Parliament has decided to use the revenue from state aid fines to support the urban free zone. This is EUR 124 million, which is in addition to what I have already mentioned. The ban on the urban free zone was made this winter. On 17 April last year, the list of companies admitted to urban free zone facilities was approved, which will be able to use these facilities already starting from the current tax declaration. This set of interventions is coordinated by an interinstitutional coordination committee State-Region-Local Authorities and by a directing booth, coordinated in particular by Italy Labour, with the Region, with the social partners, trade unions and business forces, with regard to active labour policies. Of course, the part of the actions that has not yet been sufficiently implemented is infrastructure and reclamation. On this we are working with the Sardinia Region in order to accelerate as much as possible the launch of the planned infrastructural works and the implementation of the Bonifiche, naturally after characterization of the various sites and definition of the necessary reclamation interventions. Instead, the urban free zone and the competition of ideas have already started - as I mentioned earlier - and the development contract with EurAllumina is currently being defined, as well as other interventions are ready, in particular regarding the possibility of attracting an important entrepreneurial initiative in the field of second generation biofuels in the territory of Sulcis. As you know, this is one of the points supported by the European Commission on which the Italian Government is also pushing in Europe to have ambitious targets on second generation biofuels. We have advanced Italian technologies in this sector and - I repeat - we are sending an important investment in Sulcis. With regard to the problem of the differential in the cost of energy, I have already said something earlier with regard to the question of the latter. More generally, with regard to all the companies of Sulcis, I recall that the realization of the Sapei cable almost canceled the price differential with the Continent. In any case, we believe that it is still necessary, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Sardinian electricity system, to allow a special form of interruption, for which we have requested and obtained from the European Commission the extension of a transitional system so-called superinterruptibility. Finally, with regard to the Sulcis coalfield, the decree-law Destinazione Italia, transposing a protocol of understanding signed between the Government and the Region in September 2012, provided for a form of experimentation of new clean coal technologies to be included within the project, which is present in the Sulcis plan for the implementation of a pole of green technologies in the Sulcis. This is the general framework of reference, the action of the Government, the Region and local authorities to implement the Sulcis plan and open up prospects for economic recovery in the area. As regards the commitments made by the motions, I begin with the motion tabled by Senator Uras. The first commitment is accepted. It is also the second, but with a reformulation that depends on the fact - as I said before, Senator Uras - that a substantial part (perhaps the most substantial from the quantitative point of view) of the interventions to be implemented is the responsibility of the Region of Sardinia. Therefore, I would propose to you to accept the following rewording of the second commitment: "it commits the Government to support as far as its own competence the implementation in the short time of each plan and project with public funding, currently in advanced phase of investigation and approval iter, (Piano Sulcis), including the interventions, and then continue as proposed by Senator Uras. As far as the third commitment is concerned, I need to clarify, Senator Uras. You write: "to follow up the ratification of the programme agreement on environmental issues." In fact, the programme agreement is currently being defined, so I would propose the following rewording: "to arrive quickly at the ratification of the programme agreement on environmental issues between MISE, Ministry of the Environment and EurAllumina and the signing of the related development contract" and then the text continues as proposed by the senator. 11.15 a.m. (continued DE VINCENTI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development). Also on the fourth commitment - I ask you - I propose the following rewording: "to put in place all the initiatives of competence by activating with the other administrations" - again the role of the Region is here fundamental - "with the aim of finding solutions for all those temporary workers," and so on. The fifth commitment also raises the same problem, because we must respect the regional competences, so the text should become the following: "to put in place all the initiatives of competence by activating with the other administrations with the aim of identifying tools that can assure all workers of the companies in crisis" and then continues the text proposed by Senator Uras. The last commitment contained in the motion shall be accepted. As far as the first motion by Senator Serra is concerned, the first commitment can be accepted with rewording, because, as I said before, Senator Serra, the point is that there is already an interinstitutional table, with the interinstitutional coordination committee and the steering booth. Given that we are talking here, in particular, about active labour policies (such as refresher courses, skills and retraining), I would focus on the direction cabin and propose the rewording in the following terms: "to strengthen the activity of the State-Regia Cabin of State-Regions-social partners in order to start appropriate refresher courses, qualification and professional retraining for a job and productive recovery". The second commitment can be accepted with rewording, with the same spirit in which I have proposed some rewordings to Senator Uras, regarding the respective competences of State and Regions, in the following terms: "to put into effect every useful initiative, within the framework of own competences, " - we speak of the Government - "to face the situation of workers in the entire industrial sector, also considering and then the text continues according to what proposed by Senator Serra. The third commitment is accepted. With regard to the first-signed motion of Senator Floris, the first commitment is accepted, while the second one is accepted if a proposal for reformulation is accepted that is always affected by the problem I said, relating to the respective competences of State and Region, in the following terms: "to provide for actions, within its own competence, in order to avoid definitive closure" and then continues the text proposed by the Senator. The third commitment is accepted, while for the fourth one too a very brief rewording is required in order to be able to accept it, always for the same problem, in the following terms: "to implement, however competent, initiatives aimed at supporting it," and then continues the text as proposed by Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u55	I would ask the motion-makers whether they intend to accept the proposals for reformulation put forward by Deputy Minister De Vincenti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u56	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u57	I welcome the proposal to reformulate the text put forward by the Deputy Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u58	I too welcome the proposal for a reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u62	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator Uras said something important in his speech, namely that Sardinia is not a beach: it is perfectly right, because it is not a beach, or at least not just a beach to put an umbrella on. I say more, Senator Uras: Sardinia is not only the Costa Smeralda, because in the collective imagination of our fellow countrymen this island is linked only to certain things, such as the month of August, holidays and holidays. Sardinia is instead also a dignified hinterland, which, far from the spotlight of the August holidays, wants to testify to the dignity and strength that the Sardinians have always had. The situation of Sulcis highlights a dramatic problem that is experiencing Sardinia and, with it, our whole country. This is an employment issue, with 34,000 fewer jobs, which concerns young people and older people, but still people who have invested their professional and family future in order to pursue that dream that a few years ago had been foreshadowed to the Sardinian people with the motivation that with large companies and large companies would be able to have a better standard of living, while today it has found itself in a nightmare. It is a health problem, because we all know very well how much cancers and diseases have increased in those areas of Sulcis. When I think of them, I also think of an area that I would like to compare to them, namely the province of Pavia, from which I come: just think of Broni, where Fibronit with asbestos has practically killed entire families, without the State having for years moved a finger against all these people who asked for help, and the same goes for Casale Monferrato. It is not just an employment problem, but a life problem. It's a social problem. There is a social problem: young people who have no future become a social problem. Dads and moms who don't see the future become a social problem. Therefore, the State must respond to this social problem. It is an ecological problem because, thanks to industrialization, to this future, to this hope of work that we wanted to give, an entire area has been massacred. Sulcis is the largest Italian area where there are ecological problems. One cannot help but give an answer to Sulcis and Sardinia. So, with that attempt to respond, which the Government wanted to give with the decree Destinazione Italia, we want to create a new more ecological power station, which at this time many are criticizing because so ecological perhaps it is not. Perhaps this answer is not exactly what we all want, or it is not just what we all want. We need concrete facts, and if that is the answer, and if this answer has to weigh on the pockets of all Italian citizens (because this expense will have to be covered with the electricity bill), well we say that we are willing to pay something more in the electricity bill, provided that the pacts are clear and you tell exactly what you want to do and in which direction you want to go. Again, it must be a fixed-term measure. You start paying from now and you will end up in a certain number of months or years. But I also want to point out that the drama of Sulcis we are experiencing in many areas of Italy. It is the employment drama of workers and employees who are currently losing their jobs. In Lombardy this year there have already been 131,000 fewer jobs: the rich and flourishing Lombardy, not accustomed to these dramatic numbers. Piedmont has 57,000 fewer jobs, Emilia 46,000 and Lazio 38,000, and so on. This becomes a national problem. At this moment we are talking about Sardinia, but it is a national problem: 350 million hours of Cassa Integrazione since the beginning of the year. It's a scary number. Therefore, we would like to find a solution to the situation of Sulcis, but opening a debate table also within the Senate on all the realities that at this moment, like Sulcis, are experiencing moments of crisis. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We owe it to our fellow citizens and all those people who are listening to us right now. Maybe, in fact, who at 11.30 am is listening to us, is at home because he doesn't have a job. It is up to us, politics, to give these people a future. It is up to us because we have been elected for this reason, and not just to talk about the revision of the Senate or the Provinces or who knows what. It is up to us to give an answer. It is up to the Government to find resources and, perhaps, Minister, Vice-Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we go looking for those resources, perhaps we can find them in those funds which are being used improperly at the moment in welcoming the illegals who come to Italy. It is unthinkable that there are Italian citizens living in tents right now, waiting for a job, and there are illegals living in hotels doing nothing all day, while people who have worked their whole lives are waiting to have a future! So, Mr President, I would like to end by saying a word of hope. There are three documents: let's see that for once we can agree and make one [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , because it must be the document of the Senate of the Republic, it must not be the document of a part of the Senate, even if then maybe all three will be voted unanimously. Let us show the citizens of Sulcis that today is a morning in which the Senate, for once, can agree on a concrete and real problem. That is my wish, and I would ask the three first signatories of the motions, perhaps even taking ten minutes of time, to speak to each other, to confront each other and to propose to all of us a single document. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Serra and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u63	I greet the representatives of the Italian Committee for the promotion of education in Neuchâtel, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u66	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of all three motions. We would have liked to have worked on a single document, but there are now no conditions: we have already acquired the opinion of the Government, which we thank for the sensitivity it has shown on this issue. We know that in particular the Deputy Minister has been engaged several times on that front and follows closely the issues that concern the industrial revival of that territory. We are confident that today's is a moment that favours the solution of problems and we are confident that we can see in the coming days and weeks already some important results (because those workers and those families are a bit 'the emblem of the industrial crisis of this country, which unfortunately hits from North to South, and hits the islands) and that this territory, which - I repeat - is the emblem of a general difficulty, can also be the symbol of a total rebirth of Italy from the point of view of productive and industrial capacity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Uras, also for giving an example of the summary in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u69	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, the Senators of the New Centro-Rextra Group are in favour of all three motions tabled for the reasons outlined above, because, among other things, they broadly follow the previous motion on Alcoa and extend the problems to the whole territory and to other productive realities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u72	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, there has often been talk in this House about Sardinia, its dramas and its wounds. Today we are discussing its employment disputes and environmental protection. Cradle of ancient civilizations and knowledge that are lost in the night of time, at the center of the interests and attention of many entrepreneurs, the Sardinians know well the spotlights that are often pointed, attention sometimes foriere of unfortunate events. On the one hand the culture, the history and the traditions, on the other the defacement of its beauties. In Sardinia you live from tourism, thanks to its landscape beauties, you live from agriculture and pastoral care, thanks to the fertility of its fields and thanks to the generosity of its farms. Despite these vocations, we have witnessed and witnessed the progressive impoverishment, the looting of his riches and the subtraction of the dignity of his people. Industrialization, but above all the destructuring of its industries, without any kind of attention to the natural environment, have made the territory desolate, polluted its lands, condemned its children. The land of mines and large industries continues to be on its knees. This land is called Sulcis-Iglesiente but it is said to be the poorest province in Italy, a slice of land in south-western Sardinia known for the workers ensnared in front of the industrial gates, which until a few years ago gave work, trust and future. The industrial technological dream has come to an end and the inhabitants, 130,000, have awakened in the midst of an unprecedented crisis. The struggle for survival involves 6,000 people who were saved thanks to social shock absorbers. These include the workers of the industries who have witnessed the shutdown of the plants in various times: Allumina, Eur Allumina, Rockwool and other realities. The analysis of the economic and industrial parable is dramatic, because it did not trigger the economic process linked to the richness of a territory, because those who remain survive thanks to the help of older relatives while young people leave and never return. The limits of the industrial model come from a distance because only the basic metallurgical production, the most capital intensive, with higher energy consumption and environmental and with less employment impact has developed. In fact, the manufacture of finished products, the one with the highest employment and added value, has not grown. Many attempts to correct this model have not given the expected results despite the large commitment of capital. In the Sulcis-Iglesiente the word "industry" is associated with "bonifica" and with a recurring myth: tourism, considered an alternative tool to the closure of factories. In the last thirty years there has been a real collapse. Today, not only does industry provide a little less than 5,000 jobs, but the crisis also affects small social realities because public administration, because of the Stability Pact - always he - does not pay what is due. Clearly, there must be a reversal of the trend. We call on the Government to undertake urgently necessary initiatives and to work towards opening a discussion and consultation table involving the State, the Region and all interested parties in order to start appropriate ways of updating, retraining and retraining for a return to work and production. With this the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the three motions discussed for an action to protect the environment and attention to Sardinian workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u75	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I have already said, I would like to thank you and your colleagues for devoting this morning to Sardinia. I also thank the Government for the commitments it has wished to accept and for the proposals put forward, also with suggestions for modifying the commitments presented. We are sure that Sardinia will want to play its part and we invite the Government to exercise a control action, intervening, if there were delays, to meet the needs of that territory, black mesh in the occupation. I would also like to thank all my colleagues, the League and the 5 Star Movement for the vote in favour of the motion I have tabled, and I would also like to thank the other groups, who are presenters of motions similar to mine. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u78	LAI (PD). Mr President, I too declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of these three motions, because they share the tones, the majority of the content and, above all, the basic call for change. It is a request to the Government, to this Government, which, moreover, received a strong consensus only last Sunday precisely because it promises to change step on many events. It has already signalled a change of pace on the subject of the reforms and on the industrial affair of Electrolux; it is necessary to confirm the change of step also on events like that of Sulcis. Of course, Sulcis is not Sardinia as a whole, but it represents significantly what is happening in the industrial areas of the island, from that of Assemini to that of Ottana, to that of Porto Torres, large industrial areas in which the transition from the state industry to the private one, perhaps participated by the State or in any case supported by the public system, up to the current phase of violent deindustrialization, has left on the field not the corporate leaders or the entrepreneurs, but the workers with their families. What happens in Sulcis is an example because, as many colleagues have said, it is the Province that has the lowest average income in Italy, and not a little, much. This is not because of the responsibility of the citizens of Sulcis, because it is true that many mistakes have been made in recent years, with often forced choices in keeping up assistance rather than opportunities, and there are huge opportunities left behind for the responsibilities of the institutions. Among the disputes of Sulcis, the most evident is certainly that of the Alcoa plant, and I would like to tell the Government that I have appreciated some of the commitments made, in particular that on the subject of superinterruptibility, if it is true that it will be confirmed beyond 2015. If the Deputy Minister confirms this, it would be very important news. It may be that the Sardinian energy system is now in balance - and on this I would like a few more elements, deepening it on another occasion and certainly not on this - but it is also true that in recent years the treatment of the question of the sincerity by the Government - not of this, but of the precedents - has not exactly been up to the situation, at least not as much as those of the German, French and Spanish Governments, which to companies similar to the Alcoa have given reasons to remain and not opportunities to go away. I would add that we need a closer look at the agreements that have been made with BNFL, because it has more interest in not having the company restart - and it is true what has been said - because it would cost you more than giving it up. It is therefore necessary to look firsthand, as for Electrolux, at direct agreements with buyers. I shall conclude by specifying only the following. I note that Sulcis has been confirmed as a step change, and it is necessary that commitments made a year ago should be made to the facts and that commitments made in this year should be made available to companies and workers. Workers should not pay for their contractual arrangements, because there can be no difference in the protection of persons in a crisis phase between the worker of a large company and that of a small company or an interim worker. It is not by chance that even in the recent European elections in that Province there has been a large number of votes, of proposal and towards hope, to our party, but also the highest measure of protest and of renunciation of the exercise of the vote, which means that the protest is likely to replace only resignation. This must be avoided, and it is a mandate that has been given to the present government. We therefore vote in favour as a Democratic Party because we believe that this Government can and should do so. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u79	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 251 (text 3). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 251 (text 3), tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 251, 260 and 261 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 260 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 260 (text 2), tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 251, 260 and 261 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 261 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 261 (text 2), tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u82	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, with the prescribed number of senators requesting the 5 Star Movement Group makes its own the draft law n. 1307, at the first signature of Senator Scibona, which contains provisions on the identification of members of the Forces of order carrying out public order activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u83	The Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u86	SIMONI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's globalised reality Africa is not far from us. Indeed, it is bullying in our chronicle by disrupting our consciences with terrible facts. The story of last month was particularly terrible: the kidnapping of about 300 students of a North African institute by a terrorist group known as Boko Haram. As Italians and Europeans, we must help these countries to create the conditions within their borders to guarantee African citizens respect for life and human rights. "Bring back our girls " must not remain just a fashion slogan, but must be translated into concrete action. Boko Haram is a Nigerian terrorist organization that among its customs has to consider women as animals. These girls will now be scattered into small groups and hidden on Nigerian territory and used as hostages to obtain the release of as many terrorist guerrillas. While we're talking, these girls are being treated, abused, and raped. The terrorist group in question aims at social fraying in the name of the divide and empire that has always made the people divided, easy prey to foreign and national speculators. Its attacks on schools as educational and training institutions are emblematic because they stress that terrorist groups want to block Africa's emancipation. What fundamentalist groups have always feared is that the masses should be educated. They know that their power is linked to ignorance. On 22 May, the UN Security Council included Boko Haram's group on the list of terrorist organisations linked to Al Qaeda against which sanctions such as the arms embargo and the freezing of assets are applied. This is a first step, but it is not enough. We need more concrete action, which must be carried out through the cooperation of the democratic countries. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Zanoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u89	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of something that you have probably already heard from yourself. Yesterday a television service was aired at the broadcast "Le Iene" which brought us back to the limelight a case of alleged - but I fear it is real - corruption between politics and, in this case, the Forces of Order, that is, the Finance Guard. In this case they were talking about the incident (recorded and filmed) of a city councilman, Ciro Del Giudice, of Pozzuoli, who, as a politician, invited citizens in search of work (young unemployed) to try the fate with a competition in the Finance Guard in exchange for 25,000, or 50,000 euros. This is something really far from what should be expected of politicians. Faced with this, I can think of the question that the Government has no longer heard from us: I am referring to the 512 agents, or missing police officers, whose competition has not been flown and, above all, to the new competition banned without the need for law. So, once again, I have doubts, Mr President: what are the reasons why the Government should ban a new competition, when it is possible to run the rankings, as already done by the Carabinieri or other Forces of the Order? Will it not be that they are hiding behind client interests or, even worse, interest in corruption to give the illusion to 500,000, or how many will be the possible participants in the new competition, of a job, when instead you could respond to the security needs of the country scrolling the rankings and hiring these agents that have already been selected? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make a further comment. In a few days' time, what we have read in the newspapers will come to this House: I am referring to the so-called anti-corruption bill, which I fear will be yet another farce. In fact, for the umpteenth time there will be a provision that will give the illusion of having put even stricter strict rules to prevent corruption nesting between politics and public administrations and, in the reality of the facts, the country will fall, once again, in the error of thinking that, made the law, the problem is solved. We know that this is not the case, because the system is, unfortunately, rotten and does not allow citizens to be certain of compliance with the rules, starting with the judicial system, which does not then apply them. Corruption is not episodic but, unfortunately, extremely widespread. I hope that, in this case, there will be strong measures on the part of the judiciary in order to defeat this crime and that, especially with regard to this city councilor (or so-called) the strictest possible measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u92	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, today marks the anniversary of the death of Franca Rame. The Senate is not used to listen to those who intervene, even if the topic is more than important. No, most of the present chat, phone on two, three mobile phones, read the newspaper, handle the correspondence...Moreover, these are the words written by Franca Rame on January 15, 2008, the day he decided to present his resignation as a senator of the Republic. Today marks the first anniversary: the anniversary of the death of one of the most prominent women in this country, of a committed actress, of an artist only temporarily lent to politics, because she has never been a professional politician. On 29 May 2013 Franca left us, but she left above all an inheritance that I feel, indeed we feel, to collect as women and as citizens. This legacy consists of a continuous appeal to freedom and gender equality. The search for a real equality of treatment is, in fact, a common battle for many, many women and certainly does not resolve with the recognition of the so-called pink quotas. Rather, it is the need to have rights in the right starting points, in politics as well as in everyday life, in work and in the family. How can we not remember when Franca was the victim of indecent assaults culminating in a group rape in 1973? A reprehensible gesture that has done nothing but confirm the alarm of the female condition offended in the underwear, in dignity, in freedom. Franca Rame was and is the theatre in Italy. It becomes difficult to list all of his great achievements as a theatre actress and a big screen actress. Right in the theatre, alongside her husband Dario Fo, she was a companion, accomplice and provocative of consciences and she was able to give a personal interpretation of the female figure in our time. A strong civil and moral responsibility is certainly the cornerstone of Franca's many teachings, as well as representing the pillar on which we, of the 5 Star Movement, base our every action. Franca always said that in these institutions we are slow in all senses. He has repeatedly expressed his regret at the refractory attitude of many powerful to any proposal of change from below and from those who, with honesty, do their work. We in the 5 Star Movement are convinced that if Franca Rame had been in this House today she would have been happy to know that there is a new way of understanding and doing politics. We are talking about a policy, as you have said several times, with a real and true presence in the institutions that promotes, day after day and with the same energy as the first, respect for the individual components of the social fabric, without ever neglecting the last, the forgotten and the victims of violence. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u93	The Presidency joins and, in particular, I do so with particular affection, recalling it both as a colleague and as a sincere friend. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-251.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11:52 a.m.
