ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u4	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that, pursuant to Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, my Group is doing its own draft law No 803. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1070, 315 and 374. The rapporteur, Senator Buemi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the civil liability of the judge in our legal system up to 1987 was governed by Article 55 of the Code of Civil Procedure, for which the judge was civilly liable when in the performance of his duties it is attributable to malice, fraud or concussion, or when without just and justified refusal, he omits or delays to provide for questions or requests from the parties and, in general, to carry out an act of his ministry. Thus, responsibility for serious fault was excluded. Article 74 of the same code extended this favorable discipline also to the magistrates of the prosecutor, but limited to the hypothesis of malice, fraud and concussion. Article 28 of the Constitution, for which officials and civil servants of the State and public bodies are directly responsible, in accordance with criminal, civil and administrative laws, for acts carried out in violation of rights, was not intended to widen the scope of civil liability of judges. In such cases, civil liability extends to the State and other public bodies. As is well known, the Constitutional Court, by judgment of 14 May 1968, No 2, had left things to the point where they were, having been considered legitimate the difference of treatment between the members of the judicial order and all the other public officials, to whom instead the rules of the single text applied, which, beside the dole, also provided for serious fault. As for the comparative investigation, it must be based on the exact determination of the role of the judge in the legal order: it can be misleading if developed without taking into account the Italian case. Thus, in France, where there is a bureaucratic model of organization, a strong and penetrating disciplinary responsibility of the judge is prominently emphasized (having the French legislator homogenized the position of the magistrate to that of the public official), while civil liability for serious fault - if it has historically assumed the same meaning of eliminating situations of privilege of the judge compared to other civil servants - is primarily constituted as the responsibility of the State. In the countries of common law, where there are professional models of organization, the responsibility of the judge, civil and disciplinary, finds little space, because the professionality of the judge is considered per se the bearer of guaranteeing values. The Italian experience assumes very peculiar connotations because, while inspired by the bureaucratic model of the organization of justice, it accentuates the independence and autonomy of the judicial order and excludes forms of political control even indirect: a situation that - as is known - is characterized by the presence of a body of self-government, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which has no response in other systems. This is due both to the absence of periodic checks, since the progress of the magistrates recruited by public competition regulated almost exclusively by seniority, and to the ineffectiveness of the disciplinary responsibility put back to the current negotiation, to which it has been tried in vain to cope during the constitutional revision, with the proposal to draw the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The peculiarity of the Italian experience, characterized by the fact that, on the traditional bureaucratic model, they have grafted themselves, as a reaction to the experience of the fascist twenty years, accentuated forms of autonomy of the judicial order from the executive power, appropriately consecrated in the Constitution, has meant that our magistrate of bureaucratic formation, but with unusual autonomy and independence from the Executive, constantly aspires to a professional model, forgetting that it is quite different in the countries of common law its legitimacy. This is also reflected on the issue of civil liability, because to aspire to a professional model means to aspire to the civil irresponsibility of the Anglo-Saxon judge, totally depriving of systemic consideration the aspect of the protection of the citizen from the effects of judicial activity. This is a profile that an important component of Italian society, given the disservices of the justice system accumulated over the decades, requires to face decisively. This was done by the 1987 referendum initiative of the Radical Party, the Italian Liberal Party and the Italian Socialist Party. Thanks to it 20 million yes allowed the repeal of Articles 55, 56 and 74 of the Code. As sometimes happens after the big victories, the victorious armies spread: the radicals felt that abolishing that derogation discipline of the fascist code meant restoring the general rule of direct responsibility (the professional rule of common law or, in any case, that of civil servants, referred to in Article 28 of the Constitution). The other promoters felt instead that the question was imposed by the mere repealing nature of the referendum, but that the electorate merely intended to open the way to another type of responsibility. An initiative in this regard has been on the table since the previous legislature: I refer to the Senate Act No 2138 of the 9th legislature, approved by the Council of Ministers of 29 December 1986 chaired by Mr Craxi and presented by the Minister of Justice, Mr Rognoni, in agreement with the Ministers for the Budget and Economic Planning, Mr Romita and the Treasury, Mr Goria, on which the debate in the Committee on Justice and the Senate was started. Unifying a series of parliamentary designs, under the wise guidance of the new Minister of Justice Giuliano Vassalli, that trace was developed to coordinate the principle contained in Article 28 of the Constitution with the other principles of equal constitutional value. With what became Law No 117 of 1988 it is established that those who have suffered unjust damage in dependence on malice or gross negligence, committed by the magistrate in the performance of his duties, have the right to be compensated by the State, subject to a judgment of admissibility, and that then there may be the revenge on the part of the State that has been sentenced to compensation for the damage against the magistrate. Article 2 of paragraph 2 states that it may not give rise to liability for any activity of interpretation of the law, reconstruction or evaluation of the pact. This is the so-called safeguard clause which allowed a Supreme Council of the judiciary in incomplete composition - and contested in its legitimacy by at least two judicial appeals - to state that the institution of civil liability cannot be used to put pressure on the magistrates in order to increase the diligence of the individual and the quality of the jurisdiction. In this respect, I would like to make a few very limited points. As a preliminary point, I demand, on my political side, the conviction that the civil responsibility of the judges is deterrent - historically identified by the guaranteeing opinion of our country - in order to make the protagonists of the justice system responsible. It was a political part defeated by the history of the twentieth century to affirm instead that, contrary to reality, the referendum promoted on Articles 55, 56 and 74 of the Code of Criminal Procedure emphasizes the meaning of this type of responsibility, giving to the insufficiency of the current criteria the origin of the crisis of justice. This is a narrow vision of justice policy focused on the early idea that through the threat of sanction order and functionality can be obtained (see report to the bill n. 434 of the X legislature of initiative of Senator Pecchioli and other senators). Even today, the challenge of modernity puts pressure on the country: there are those who do not want to increase the quality of justice service with the threat of paying damages. Too bad that this threat has always worked for doctors and engineers who have only autonomous governing bodies of their professional order. The judiciary, on the other hand, has a body of self-government and it seems to me that today we can appreciate that the difference is not insignificant. I am referring to the diversity between the governing bodies of professional bodies and the self-government body of the judiciary. Secondly, it cannot be put back to the principle of the operative - that is, ultimately, to the availability of means of the succumber, in order to continue against an unjust judgment to the last degree, as well as to the thousand non-satisfactional results that may derive from induced or unwitting acquiescences - the affirmation of objective law, whose unity and uniformity is an absolute value according to Article 76 of the judicial order. Paradoxically, the incomparable assessment of the judge is more explainable for the reconstruction of the covenant, since the order excludes a fourth degree of judgment. But for the interpretation of the law, the State has the duty to offer certainties to the citizen, beyond any plurality of the judges and the thousand possible quirks that can prevent him to arrive in time at the maximum and final seat, the united sections of the Cassation. That is why the bill Act of the Senate n. 1070 added, to the more or less shared proposals of procedural simplification of the mechanism of reval, also the introduction of the rule of observance of the previous, existing in many other systems with a high pretoria component in the interpretation of the law. This is the explanation of the statements of the Committee of Wise Men invested, in the spring of 2013, by the head of the State Giorgio Napolitano in order to the most urgent and shared prospects of reform of our system. The following was called for: It is proposed to strengthen, by means of regulatory interventions, the authority of the previous ones coming from the higher jurisdictions and the obligations of motivation in case of deviation from consolidated interpretations. But also in this case (as already in that of the message to the Chambers about the prisons), the formal respect for the Quirinale did not respond analogously to the desire to face the core of its concerns. I take note, therefore, of this lack of convergence on the proposal and on the point, so I will not resume my proposal. It therefore announces that the amendments which had been tabled on this subject have been withdrawn by the rapporteur. However, that the application of the law of 1988 did not correspond to the expectations of public opinion and the standard precept demanded insistently by the European Court of Human Rights (according to which the judge must not only be impartial, but also appear to him) was clear from the outset, so much so that many say that the law was violated by the behaviours inspired by the rule of the herd for which dog does not bite dog. Rather than demonstrating that its ability to isolate and sanction rotten apples, local jurisprudence has given a reductive reading of Law No 117 of 1988, until reading the safeguard clause of paragraph 2 of Article 2, as prevailing on any hypothesis of gross negligence, also provided for in Article 2 itself, paragraph 3. Only in this legislature, in order to change the law and make it more effective, did they compete with the bill n. 1070, in the two Chambers, at least four legislative proposals: Acti Camera nn. 1735 (Leva) and 1850 (Brunetta) and Acts of the Senate Nos. 315 and 374 (Barani). But since the first legislature of the so-called second Republic, draft laws amending the so-called Vassalli law (among others, by the forzists Martino, Fontana, Garagnani and Casellati, by the green Cento, by the AN Anedda, Laboccetta and Valentino, by the former Christian Democrats Cutrufo and D'Alia, by the Turkish radicals, Perduca and Bernardini, by the democrats Mantini, Della Monica and Ferranti, by the leghistic Brigandì and Lussana and - dulcis in fundo - by Italy of the Values with Di Pietro) were presented, proving that it was and is a need felt by many. This net of the European issue, which came later and only added international importance to our own shortcomings. It was 2000 when the Court of Cassation refused to fulfil the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling (obligation for national courts of last instance, say the European Treaties), on which depends the performance itself of the interpretative function conferred by the European Treaties to the Court of Justice of the European Union. This led to the first Italian sentence in Luxembourg. It therefore ordered the application of the Köbler judgment to the Ferry of the Mediterranean case by judgment of 13 June 2006 (Case C-173.03): The need to ensure effective judicial protection for individuals of the rights conferred on them by Community law also precludes the fact that the liability of the State cannot arise on the sole ground that a breach of Community law attributable to a national court of last instance results from the interpretation of the rules of law carried out by that court. However, the European data was also at that time generic and, therefore, likely to be influenced by a decisive position taken by the Italian legislator: the main element of the recognition made by the European judges was still the fact that Law No 117 contains the provision of a direct responsibility of the State judge, as holder of the judicial function and not of the individual magistrate-judge, for an act, a behavior or a measure adopted in the exercise of the judicial functions. The choice of recourse to the latter is therefore discretionary and autonomous in relation to the action towards the State: for a long time the best comparative doctrine had been able to offer ideas of interest in this regard, recalling that there is a type of damage inflicted secundum ius and that this can be traced back to the liability of the agent of the State, including the agent invested in judicial functions, in case of failure to comply with directives. If they had been able to grasp these suggestions perhaps the Italian situation in Europe would not have degenerated with the opening of the infringement procedure of 2009 n. 2230 by the European Commission for the non-fulfilment of the sentence Ferries of the Mediterranean. But there were those who believed it possible to square the circle by awarding compensation by the State, without corresponding to it a subsequent decision to exercise the right of recourse to the judge. By the judgment of the European Commission v Italian Republic (Court of Justice of 24 November 2011 in Case C379/10), the Court of Justice clearly ruled that judges, like all other state bodies, including administrative authorities and local authorities, are required to disapply national legislation contrary to Union law provided with direct effect, or, where possible, to interpret the first in accordance with the second, by taking the necessary measures to ensure and facilitate the full effectiveness of that right precisely in order not to determine a responsibility of the State to that effect (the European Court, that is, to rescue the Italian State). The Court held in contrast with the law that the safeguard clause leads to the exclusion of the existence of the responsibility of the State, in cases where a manifest violation of the law in force is committed. The Court also specified that, in order to assess the manifest nature of the infringement, reference must be made to the criteria of clarity and clarification of the infringed rule, the intentional nature of the infringement and the non-excusability of the error of law. The Italian Republic, excluding any liability of the Italian State for damage caused to individuals, as a result of a breach of Union law, attributable to a national court of last instance, where that breach results from the interpretation of rules of law or from the assessment of facts and evidence carried out by the same court, and limiting that liability only to cases of malpractice and gross negligence, within the meaning of Article 2 (1) and (2) of the Law of 13 April 1988, No 117, on compensation for damage caused in the performance of judicial functions and on the civil liability of magistrates, has therefore failed to fulfil its obligations under the general principle of responsibility of the Member States for breach of Union law attributable to a national court of last instance. We are now facing a third infringement procedure, which only determines the quantity of the fine following a very fast procedure for compliance: an imminent ruling by the European courts, whose sentences can be assisted by a reduction in the contributions of the European Union's economic resources to Italy. Are we prepared to explain to the citizens that the structural funds for our agriculture, or projects financed under the cohesion plan for a year, will not have money because we have to pay the consequences of the irresponsibility of the associated judiciary and the irresoluteness of the parliamentary decision-maker? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the answer of this rapporteur, on behalf of the Senate Justice Commission, is no: the point of falling national interest is reached in the text that we are submitting to this House. The draft law transmitted by the Justice Commission to this Assembly is the result of a long work of inquiry initiated at the beginning of the legislature and concluded, not without moments of great complexity in gathering consensus on individual regulatory solutions, at the Wednesday 5 November night sitting, after a long and troubled debate. It is well known that the starting point for the adoption of a new discipline in the matter of civil responsibility of the magistrates is the broad sharing and the full awareness that the system provided for by Law No 117 of 1988, the so-called Vassalli law, has not proved effective and effective refreshment for the claims of the citizens deriving from the judicial activity, and this resulted in a final examination now more than twenty-five years old. The approach of the draft law no. 1070, 315 and 374, presented respectively by the speaker and Senator Barani, intended to put hand to the areas of discipline that more than all determined the lack of effectiveness in the protection of the citizen. Of course, legislative initiatives were based on the need to respect the will of citizens, expressed with the well-known approval of the 1987 referendum question and the necessary respect for the constitutional framework and, finally, the need to deal with a European infringement procedure. It is not necessary here to recall the many circumstances in which recent parliamentary life has seen the emergence of amendments, within the Community and European law of recent years, aimed at introducing forms of judicial civil liability aimed at making the direct infringement procedure prevail. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the choice of starting point for the reform of the system is to opt between direct or indirect responsibility of individuals belonging to the judicial order. It is this systematic notion of great importance that has seen the Commission move according to interpretative lines and varied regulatory options, which have come to a synthesis also on the basis of the approval of some government amendments aimed at transposing some of the contents coming from the bill n. 1626, introduced by the Government in the course of September. Already only by virtue of the presentation of this bill, to the truth already announced by the Executive before the summer, it was necessary to decide whether to combine its examination with the legislative initiatives that I referred to at the beginning or to take into account only by allowing the Government to transmit the content in the basic text already adopted by means of specific amending proposals. The choice has fallen on this second option, also for regulatory reasons. Article 1, the only one that does not directly affect the Vassalli law, indicates the object and purpose of the entire legislative act on which the Senate is called to express itself. On the other hand, Articles 2 et seq. introduce amendments to the current Article of the Law, but they can only be understood as far as their scope is concerned, bearing in mind that the Commission, at one of the first sessions of examination of the amendments, approved the deletion of Article 1 of Draft Law No 1070 adopted as the basic text. In this respect, it should be noted that this deletion represented the first moment of profound incision on the content of the reform on which the examination was being carried out. I am referring - and the Members of the Commission will agree - to a moment when a significantly new direction has been set in the course of the legislative inquiry we have taken part in. In fact, the deletion of Article 1 represented the disappearance of the parameter to be tried to compose one of the elements of possible new attribution of guilt for damage resulting from court action. It was decided to abolish the possibility of redefinition of the role of the Supreme Court of Cassation guidelines in our legal system. But there is more, since by deleting Article 1 of Law No 1070, the Commission has removed from the reform plan any possible reference to a form of direct responsibility. Therefore, I repeat, this legislative text does not allow us to act in direct form on the magistrate, but absolutely in indirect form, denouncing with this the journalistic campaigns carried out in recent weeks also by the body of self-government of the judiciary. Article 2 of the draft law before the Shareholders' Meeting provides for amendments to Article 2 of the Vassalli Act, which significantly alters its content. First of all, it has been established that non-capital damage is also addressed beyond the only cases of undue limitation of the personal freedom of individuals. A new area of exclusion of liability for the activity of interpreting rules of law and assessing facts and evidence has therefore been introduced. On this point, the debate in the Commission has been profound and articulated. The hypothesis of introducing a parameter of responsibility characterized by the relationship between the motivation and the deviation from the consolidated guidelines of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation did not find at the end conclusion and admission within the text. The installation of article 2, paragraph 2, which constitutes the heart of the Vassalli law, has been modified according to the following approach. Firstly, it has distinguished itself between cases of malice, for which interpretation and evaluation may also give rise to liability, and the remaining assumptions for which, on the other hand, the principle set out above applies, namely that the general rule excludes the attribution of responsibilities to magistrates for the interpretation and evaluation activity. Paragraphs 3 and 3-a, however, set out the exceptions. In fact, the manifest violation of the law and law of the European Union, the misrepresentation of the fact or evidence, or the affirmation of a fact which is indisputably excluded from the proceedings and its reciprocal nature, and therefore the denial of an event which is indisputably established on the basis of the same procedural acts, can be classified as serious fault. In addition to this category of exceptions, it has been foreseen, as an autonomous condition, the issue of a personal or real precautionary measure, outside the cases allowed by law or without specific and adequate motivation. Of this last rule has been given ample emphasis on the media; in this regard, I would just point out that the previous discipline brought by the law Vassalli punctually provided for the case of undue limitation of personal freedom and that, therefore, the hypothesis of including this eventuality in the general profiles of attribution of responsibility would have constituted a deviation from the current discipline. Paragraph 3-a of the same Article 2 lays down the conditions under which the existence of a manifest violation of the law and law of the European Union may be found. It is a clarification rule that gives a greater degree of certainty to the entire discipline of civil liability and on which the same bill No 1070, at my first signature, did not fail to dwell, albeit with a partly different wording. The indices provided for in paragraph 3-a correspond to the degree of clarity and precision of the rules violated, as well as to the inexcusability and seriousness of the non-compliance. In the case of the only manifest infringement of European Union law, account must be taken (and this is an exception to the law and case law of domestic jurisdiction) of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union, as well as of the failure to comply with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling. I now come to the examination of the amendments made to Articles 4 and 5 of Law No 117 of 1988. With the first amendment, the deadline for the application against the State is increased from two to three years, as well as the deadline for the refusal of justice. With Article 3 of the draft law, which remained unchanged as a result of the Commission's amending activity, it was proposed to abolish the well-known mechanism of the eligibility filter (which had been one of the elements which, in fact, had rendered inapplicable, if not for a very small part, the Vassalli legislation), on which, in doctrine and in the common opinion of the operators of the law, very strong reservations have centered during the twenty-five years of existence of the Vassalli law. It is, in fact, an institution whose deflagration ended up paralysing the way of compensation for citizens. Article 4 of Law No 1070 lays down the principle that the decision given in the judgment against the State was also in the judgment of appeal and in disciplinary proceedings, with exclusive reference to the determination of the facts contained in the judgment. I shall conclude by examining the amendments made by the Commission's text with regard to the institute of re-valsa action. Attributed to the President of the Council of Ministers, it must be exercised within two years of the compensation made on the basis of the judicial or extrajudicial title vis-à-vis the State. The Commission has also agreed to make it expressly mandatory, anchoring its pre-conditions to the same legal basis as described above, but establishing that the subjective element of the conduct bearing damage by the magistrate must be exclusively that of malice or inexcusable negligence. Further rules concerning the discipline of the transaction and its opposability, as well as the special discipline for popular judges and extra-judicial judges who contribute to the formation or formation of judicial colleges, follow. Moreover, Article 6 of the draft law redefines the quantitative limits of the same refund by establishing that it cannot exceed a sum equal to half of a year's salary (the previous legislation provided for a third party), net of tax deductions, received by the magistrate at the time when the compensation action is proposed. This limit - it should be remembered - does not apply to the fact committed with intent, in which case, of course, the compensation action is total. On the other hand, if the payback is carried out by deduction of the salary, the total payment for monthly instalments may not exceed the third of the net salary. The draft law closes the forecast for which failure to exercise the revenge action involves accounting liability. In order to ensure continuous monitoring of the findings of this responsibility, an obligation to inform the Court of Auditors by the Minister of Justice and the President of the Council of Ministers on convictions arising from acts of crime is provided for. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u13	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u14	Mr President, it is difficult to add words to the extensive report by the rapporteur, Mr Buemi. This shows how complicated and delicate the subject we are dealing with today is. In fact, we are talking about a draft law contained in a few articles and the same dossier as the amendments is very contained. However, the problem has given rise to a very wide debate not only within the Commission's Chamber, but much outside it. It refers to a difficult and archaic procedure, as the proceedings in Italy know. I recall that twenty years ago a referendum was held on this subject in which the Italians expressed themselves very strongly, indicating that the magistrate had to respond personally for damage to the citizen. The various draft legislation on the subject was then examined in the Commission, the deadline for tabling amendments was set in December (which was then reopened several times) and the deadline for submitting sub-amendments because a number of factors took place in this process. Just think of the amendment submitted to the Chamber of Deputies last June during the examination of the draft Community law and approved by secret vote which provided for the direct responsibility of the magistrate. I would like to remind those who are listening to us, and who may consider a subject that is rather very important to be boring, that up to now the law No 117 of 1988 (so-called Vassalli) that we are going to amend provided, yes, for the civil liability of the magistrate, but the one who responds to the damages suffered by the applicant is the State that, in turn, can exercise a reval, recovering the money, towards the magistrate. To date, this complex process has given rise to few sentences of magistrates. At present, the draft laws in question affect the scope of Law No 117 of 1988. As I said before, however, the procedure has certainly not been straightforward and has shown how complex and difficult the situation is: I recalled, in fact, a short while ago, the deadlines for tabling amendments and sub-amendments, as well as the Pini amendment presented to the Chamber of Deputies; it was then announced and presented at the end of September - and therefore a short time ago - a draft government law, which intervened substantially and enormously on the scope of the original one and then became the basis of the amendments tabled by the Government itself in the Justice Commission. In order to make an analysis of the scope of the work carried out, there are, on the one hand, the activity of Parliament, and, on the other, for the umpteenth time, a great, important interference on the part of the Government, which suggests a hypothesis - or requires it, since the majority should be the same, I stress - on issues that I repeat are not easy. Nor was it the task of Senator Buemi to deal with this issue by trying to maintain his independence as rapporteur with respect to government positions, demonstrating that many thoughts, opinions and assessments can be made on this issue. In the end, however, Minister Orlando also tried to do a work of mediation, if we can call it that: in fact, the complaints put in place by the National Association of Judges regarding this bill are known, which have even reached the point of foretelling strikes. The reason for this is that it is easy for the citizen to feel that he has suffered an injustice in a trial if he is faced with a decision contrary to his own ideas. It is not easy to understand, however, that sometimes that feeling of injustice can be determined by an interpretation of the law that can actually be shared. Then there is often the feeling that there may be errors: it is terrible to think that in justice - which should be that institution that protects us from all our operations and gives us the possibility of settling disputes, solving problems and condemning criminals - a mistake can be nested, and one wonders what nature it can be. It is not easy to think of the function of the magistrate as comparable to that of a professional: can the activity of a magistrate be comparable to that of a professional? A doctor, for example, who affects one of the most important assets, such as life, is responsible and therefore sanctionable not only criminally, but also civilly for the damage suffered by a patient. The question then arises why the magistrate is not. It is therefore difficult to intervene with this legislation to influence the independence of the judiciary: how far can the judiciary go? Can it be an activity completely free of responsibility or must it respect some stakes? In this respect, the proposal put forward by the draft law seeks to improve the situation by affecting existing legislation. We have great doubts about the fact that this is a fundamental, essential, indispensable and absolutely resolving norm of the problems that revolve around the Italian justice, whose problems are perhaps not only those of civil responsibility or disciplinary of the magistrates. We urge all citizens not to try to make this a fundamental intervention for the reform of justice. Let us remember that this measure is also not the reform of justice: the reform of true justice is the systematic, overall and functional one that must be carried out and of which there is an absolute urgency. Will these passages, discussions and doctrinal insights on the various positions and the executive, legislative and judicial powers solve the problem of justice in Italy? We don't think so. We need serious interventions: there is a scandalous backwardness in the civil sector and shameful timing in our courts, a reform of judicial geography that has created problems not least. Perhaps that is not the way to solve this. Let us leave the philosophies to you, let us think about the concrete things and how the problems in Italy must be solved and perhaps this measure is not a solution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u15	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u16	Mr President, we are dealing with the new rules on the civil liability of judges, as we know, also by virtue of yet another European infringement procedure which forces our legal system to adapt to precise rules in this area in Europe. With the occasion, we are trying - at least the 5 Star Movement Group wanted to make its contribution in this regard - to achieve the objective of giving concrete substance to a sacred principle, which aims to ensure that the exercise of jurisdiction is balanced and responsible, finding a difficult point of balance between defending and maintaining the freedom of action and the independence of the magistrates, called to operate in a regulatory framework, as we know, very complex and sometimes difficult to interpret, and avoiding the repetition of cases, which have occurred, of malice or serious fault in the exercise of jurisdiction. In the difficult search for this point of balance we believe that all in all, the text, however still to be amended, can find its reasonableness and an area of dignity within our legal system. Let us remember a fact that many people know, namely that the so-called Vassalli law, No 117 of 1988, entered into our system following a popular referendum, which aimed to regulate the civil liability of judges in cases of malpractice or gross negligence, has remained in fact almost a useless orpello; in fact, from the data that the same Ministry has handed over to the Commission justice, it emerges that against more than 400 appeals proposed by citizens to obtain the recognition of a right to compensation for the misuse of jurisdiction, only 7 have been concluded, from 1988 to the present, with a measure that has recognized that it is malicious or serious fault on the part of magistrates. The apparent huge imbalance between the number of appeals lodged and the final receptions could be justified in the abstract by excessive recourse by citizens to this instrument of protection, but it can be assumed that, most likely, if only 7 against more than 400 appeals have come to a pronunciation of responsibility, the procedure so far known and applied, governed by the Vassalli law, does not work. It was therefore intended to remove, with the draft law under consideration, the so-called phase of the filter of preliminary eligibility, while maintaining the principle of the indirect responsibility of the magistrates. We also wanted to defend and support this sacrosanct principle that the magistrate must be free and not influenceable when he is deciding, in civil or administrative judgements of very important size or limited measures of freedom, in total independence and without having to fear harmful consequences following one decision rather than another. We said, indirect responsibility is maintained, the filter is eliminated and there is a new type of serious fault cases that initially in the Commission the Government had presented in a form that wanted to be comprehensive, that is, it recognized the serious fault in all cases of "manifest violation of law". We have appropriately integrated this formula in the Commission which, in its all-inclusiveness (apparently, at least), could leave out other cases. However, since the term "manifesta" does not belong to the legal tradition of our legal system, the cases in which it may be considered that there is a serious fault in the exercise of jurisdiction have been further specified. We believe that it is a good thing that we want to introduce an obligation of revenge on the part of the State towards the magistrate who has made himself responsible for these regulated cases, on the understanding that we remain in the field of the protection of the magistrates, therefore at the economic level the revenge can be exercised, according to the text under consideration, up to half of the annual net compensation of the magistrate responsible, therefore with an increase regarding the current discipline of the so-called law Vassalli which, as we know, limited to a third of the net annual compensation the economic quantity on which the State could exercise its revenge. There is, however, one aspect that will have to be corrected in the course of the amendment. I would like to make a brief point now, but we will return to it when we explain the amendments. We believe that there is a logical inconsistency in Article 5 of this text, where the Presidency of the Council is acknowledged to have a role to play, which will be called upon to give concrete expression to the revenge action. Reference is made to the possibility of obtaining an out-of-court title: in this case, in simple terms, it is the State which agrees with the citizen seeking compensation in order to achieve, according to this forecast, a transparent, out-of-court bonary solution. Well, if this is considered possible in paragraph 1 of Article 7 of Law No 117 of 1988, paragraph 2 says: In no case is the transaction opposable to the magistrate in the judgment of revalsa or in the disciplinary judgment. It seems to us to note in this a sort of short circuit because it is said that the State can resolve extrajudicially with the citizen a compensation request, but at the same time the same transaction would not be opposable to the magistrate; this would mean that the sums that the State pays to the citizen, albeit in a transactive place, remain at the expense of the community, without any possibility of the exercise of revalsa. We fully understand the reason why it is appropriate not to exercise the revenge as a result of an out-of-court definition where the magistrate could not defend himself, to say his own, so it is right to protect the magistrate, but we believe that it is appropriate to introduce an amendment to Article 5 in order to eliminate completely - this is our suggestion - the possibility of closing a question transactively on the subject of which we are talking, so as to allow the magistrate, who considers himself unjustly called to answer for cases of gross negligence or malice, to defend and have a judicial title with the dignity of a judicial finding that can give satisfaction, on the one hand, to the citizen who complained about the damage and, on the other hand, to the magistrate who is sanctioned in the limits in which the exercise of revenge can be exercised. There is a logical contrast in Article 5 which, in our view, should be corrected at the next stage of the amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today is particularly important as it is the civil liability of judges in the exercise of judicial functions that is an extremely sensitive matter. Not only that, but the media attention that has been given to the measure is such that this regulatory intervention, which refers to the modification of the law on civil liability of the judge in his judicial activity, could be confused with a sort of final settlement of accounts between politics and the judiciary, that is the final act of a clash between powers in struggle for over twenty years for the hegemony over the Italian nation. I immediately say that if we were to legislate animated - I might say blinded - by this Manichaean vision, we would make a serious mistake. In this case, it is necessary to pursue the aim of balanced legislation which can be durable and consistent with constitutional and supranational principles. The reform is based on Law No 117 of 1988, on which the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgments today, which the rapporteur has made clear in his introductory report. Like it or not, in all European legal systems there are special rules for the civil liability of judges and, in some cases, even more restrictive than those in force today in Italy (think of Great Britain, Switzerland or even Portugal). As a civilist lawyer I say that the activity of interpretation and application of laws is one of the most complex intellectual activities in which man, irreplaceable by any machine, today and forever acts with all his higher cultural faculties and in which, urged by always different forms and manifestations of concrete cases, he must act sometimes even in an innovative and brilliant way. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid at all costs the risk that the new civil liability regime will, by intimidating the judges, place a lead hood on the interpretative activity of the rules, resulting in a static conformism with the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court which - I assure you - the judges themselves of the Court do not wish, because of course they would be deprived of those effervescent and dynamic cultural solicitations that come to them from the judgments of merit and from the contribution of the lawyers. It is not a matter of regretting the season of the so-called attackers, but of recognizing as a fact, now acquired by world legal science, that the legal norm, even in the apparent fixity of its literal formulation, has its own life that derives from it, as well as from the relations it establishes with the other norms of the legal order, possibly changed, from the interpretative contribution of the judges in the contact between the norm, the real life and the human events that it claims to regulate. Having said that, there is no doubt that Law No 117 of 1988 deserved an amendment because it has proved insufficient to guarantee the protection of citizens against the errors of judges who are often gravely affected by even devastating consequences on the lives of people. Europe, with the judgments of European justice, has asked us for an amendment and the Italian Parliament intervenes by changing the rule. Senator Lumia often reminds us that Europe asks us, asks us, asks us; and the Italian Parliament, at the request of the European Parliament, intervenes. He spoke when the European Union told us that we had to intervene on the overcrowding of prisons: Parliament and this majority then intervened by guaranteeing the prisoners who lived in inhumane conditions compensation (it was defined as using, moreover, a wrong time limit; in fact, having set a limit of seven euros per day we cannot talk about compensation, but rather compensation); this majority thinks that it has given Europe a timely response by that measure. Today, Europe is asking us to intervene on Law 117, and the majority are carrying out an operation which, if consumed in a courtroom, would define procedural fraud, but which is consumed in Parliament, I can call it legislative fraud. What does this operation do? What are the two main points of the measure in our examination? First of all, the filter provided for in Law No 117 had to be removed because according to the statistics, as Senator Buccarella pointed out, of 100 applications, 2, 3 or 4 per cent of admissible judgments are recorded; that is to say, a blockage in relation to the possibility and the right of the citizen to bring proceedings in order to be compensated for the damages which he may have received due to a wrong decision because of serious fault or even, in some cases, by the court's malice. Well, that filter has been removed, and we are all happy with it. What did you do, though? This is where legislative fraud comes in. The citizen's access to justice has been removed, but the field has been skilfully narrowed down, drawing a kind of cone: to be right, the citizen must prove that the judge has acted with malice or serious guilt; and the State, when it is guilty of serious guilt, compensates the citizen. Specific for the 5 Star Movement that the damage that a judge has caused in the exercise of his judicial activity is compensated with the citizen's money. But then, when the State has to compete against the judge, then the wording "blame serious" is changed in an inexcusable negligence. For the truth, in recent days I have paused to try to understand what it means "inexcusable negligence." You will all understand - even the non-experts and therefore not lawyers or magistrates - that, when it comes to serious faults, the various circumstances are inserted, i.e. impriety and negligence. When it comes to inexcusable negligence, the judgment of inexcusability to whom is entrusted? He's in the hands of another judge. In this amendment, too, we forgot to say who is the judge who may have to decide. In fact, at the beginning, when Law 117 was introduced, the question arose whether the court of appeal, the ordinary court of jurisdiction, or other court of the same district of the court where the judge in question is in service, was competent. In the context of criminal proceedings, as regards the competence to decide on the activity of a criminal magistrate, we know that the rule provides that a judge, a court and a prosecutor of another court of appeal should decide. However, we also know that, in the civil sphere, this rule is not applicable: if there is a case against a court of a civilistic nature and jurisdiction is the same as in the territory in which the court carries out its judicial activity, jurisdiction is rooted. What does that mean? It means that a judge must assess, from the point of view of ascertaining liability, the activities and conduct of a colleague of his who is in the next room. After the experience of 2, 3 or 4 percent of the eligibility filter, I think that this error could be remedied by providing for the prosecution of the citizen before the court of another district and, in particular and more specifically, that the case of the State of revalsa should be decided by another judge who is not in the same district as the magistrate in question. The rapporteur, in his original wording, committed a sin of constitutionality. Senator Buemi, it is very easy, it is really elementary to understand that a procedure (verbals and all the progress of the process) cannot be done in another procedure if it concerns a subject who did not participate in that first procedure. It is true: we are in the context of a voluntary litisconsorzio. It is true that the judge could also intervene in the first proceedings. But, if he did not and did not intervene, the acts of that process cannot constitute evidence in the course of the next process. The government on this point seems to me to be intervening with an amendment. Every now and then this government succeeds [[Comments of Senator Buemi]] .. Is there an amendment by the rapporteur? Then we say that in addition to the Government, the rapporteur, Senator Buemi, has also redeemed himself. From time to time some obvious criticalities are also seized by the Government and by this majority. There is another aspect: the basic choices. We have spoken of the elimination of the filter of the admissibility judgment, of a false filter in the context of the procedure of re-valence and legal re-qualification of the conduct of gross negligence, in the proceedings of the citizen against the State, to inexcusable negligence, in the procedure of re-valsa. A liberal lawyer cannot imagine that a judge should be bound by his decisions. Our judiciary is for the most part serious, sound, wise and correct. When you spoke of the vacation of the magistrates, I, to be honest, did not get passionate about the subject, so much so that I did not intervene because the judge also works at home when drawing up his own sentences. It is not through the reduction of the vacation period of judges that the problem of justice is solved. On this morning's measure, even from the centre-right, there can only be a balanced voice to get out of the context of conflict that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. We are not animated by grudges or remedial claims against the Italian judiciary. We believe that a large part of the Italian judiciary deserves our respect and respect. A small fringe of this attacking judiciary cannot determine the legislator's will to imagine laws that will penalise and limit the judicial activity of the entire judiciary. Colleagues, it's been about 30 years since this conflict. I, from my point of view, say: now, please, stop. The cultural consequences that this conflict between politics and the judiciary has caused are enormous and have been suffered by the citizen, my country, our country, from the point of view of our international image. That's enough. A judge decides the disputes, the criminal cases, takes the measures in a state of serenity, but knowing that acting with malice or serious guilt can risk a sentence for the relative compensation. This is the overall vision and attitude that must be taken in dealing with this delicate problem. That is a balanced attitude. Senator Caliendo has, as always - I must say - tabled amendments which are of absolute reasonableness. At this moment I could say that the measure as a whole does not satisfy me but not because I wanted forks for judges, but because it does and does not. To answer Europe, I wonder: is Europe stupid when we give it answers of this kind or are we, the Italian Parliament, extremely clever to cheat and give the feeling that we have given an answer when we have not done so? We look forward to seeing the attitude of the majority, of the rapporteur and of the Government, in order to understand if we are to welcome our collaboration - the collaboration of Forza Italia - through the amendments of my colleagues, Caliendo and others, to express a final overall opinion on our position in relation to this delicate measure today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today - let us be honest - was not at the top of the priorities of our legislative activity. Roberto Saviano, the other night, from Fabio Fazio, reminded us, where needed, that the priorities are the laws on self-recycling, on fake in the budget and on the regime of the prescription of crimes. The priorities for the planet justice are also others: it is necessary to stabilize the precarious who for years have been working and buffering the gaps opened by the turnover block and it is necessary to pay overtime to the chancellors who leave home at two and make our courts, in the afternoon, empty castles with a spooky appearance. But mafia and 'ndrangheta never stop: work h24. Lords of the Government and President Renzi, take a good time to become aware of these things: good politics is also this, especially this. What does the measure we are examining say? Frankly a little trivial and obvious things; they don't shock me. It is proposed to introduce a modification of Law No 117 of 1988, removing the filter of eligibility of the compensation application and providing for a right of reval of the State on the responsible magistrate, increased compared with the past. I am sure that serious, hardworking and upright magistrates have no fear of this bill. The vast majority of magistrates who know what they are doing, know how to write a good motivation, know the laws and the jurisprudence and will never incur the rigors of this new law. I remember anyone being sued can ask for damages for the fearful quarrel. The case of compensation, clearly pretentious and unfounded, aimed only at intimidating the judge, could be considered fearful and an abuse of the law and, therefore, backfire against those who pursue it. However, I should like to say - and I shall conclude - that there is one aspect that the reform does not touch: that of the guilty delay. As a liability hypothesis, there is talk of violations of the law and of European Union law; there is talk of a lack of motivation in precautionary measures, but nothing is said about the delay. We are talking, yes, of denial of justice, but I do not think that the inexcusable delay is part of it. Around the country there are unfortunately - although they are not the majority - magistrates who make absurd referrals - sometimes for plausible justifications, but often not - for almost entirely documentary causes, where the paper sings; causes where there would be just to decide. Appeals are set at two or three years from the filing of the judgment at first instance and this is not possible; especially in the civil sector, judges must make an extra effort. Denied justice is the worst injustice. I do not escape the exploitation and ideological character of this bill: a clear surrender to the anti-legalist moods that snake in this House. There is always the smell of revenge against clean Hands and against the Milan Public Prosecutor, but I look forward. I don't think it's a real attack on the independence of the judges and it takes away alibi from the government and us. Now let's move on to the real reforms, the ones that the citizens need and not the political class to self-esteem. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u21	I address a greeting from the whole Assembly to the students and teachers of the Institute of Technology John von Neumann in Rome, who are following our work [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u22	Mr President, the draft law that we are about to adopt, as has been pointed out in the numerous speeches that preceded me, fills a gigantic, paradoxical, almost incredible legislative gap, which starts from the well-known and widely shared referendum of 1987, when more than 20 million citizens, with a majority of more than 80% of the consents, had demanded that in our country the responsibility of those who administer justice could also be assessed against those who were entitled to compensation for illegal or non-professional behaviour or arson on the part of the judicial order. Following this referendum, with a completely typical subject of ours, so to speak, legal culture, an eminent exponent of doctrine, Professor Vassalli, who in other ways we admire and praise for his profound knowledge of the law, drew up a law, No 117, which came into force in 1988, which led to the results we know (a few days ago were quoted by a colleague). Let's do a brief reconnaissance: there are about 10,000 judges in staff (in role and out of role) and over 8 million criminal and civil proceedings in distress, in the sense that they have not yet been examined or are not at the final level of their iter. We can imagine, therefore, that in more than twenty-four years of judicial activity carried out by about 10,000 magistrates for tens of millions of cases, some event, even just because of a statistical fact of impriety, negligence, malpractice, guilt, has occurred; well, as has been recalled, in this exponential context of numbers, only seven magistrates have reached the point of being called to respond, with their responsibilities, to their errors. Three infringement procedures, which have occurred over the years by the European Union, attest to the absolute incongruity and serious non-compliance of the Italian State with regard to this issue, must be added to this fact, which in itself is macroscopic - which would not require further comments on urgent and incisive action by the legislation to correct it. On the other hand, this is not an objectionable argument, in the sense that you can have divergent opinions if you respect the rules of law and the affirmation of the fundamental principle that we are all equal before the law: even the magistrates are equal before the law, or should be equal. In this regard, I would like to mention a great Italian statesman, whose name I do not mention, but whom some of you will also remember for this sentence (as well as for others of whom he used to be an extensor; therefore he was remembered for his incisiveness), who advised that the laudable, recognizable and widely shared principle that the law is the same for all should be remembered in courtrooms not only with written behind the shoulders of the court of judges but also before them, so that they could remember it at the time of fulfillment of their high function of jurisdiction. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] I now come to a few points which are more precise than the text we are examining. In the Justice Committee, we have discussed it extensively in a number of successive interventions in various stages. We have been dealing with this since the beginning of this parliamentary term and we have been dealing with sensitive issues and controversial positions according to the sensitivities of each individual. We have, however, come to a point with certain cornerstones in which we fully recognize ourselves, even those who speak to you and the Group that you represent. A fundamental principle to which we want to stick, with regard to the errors of jurisdiction, or in the investigation by the judge of preliminary hearings or preliminary investigations, is that they can remedy the degrees of further judgment compared to the first (second and third degree magistrates). In addition, we are convinced that in order to allow the independence of the judiciary - a legal value that we want to adhere to and in which we recognize ourselves - the direct responsibility is not of the individual magistrate but of the State, almost to absorb the function of the individual judge in that of the State itself that among its functions also administers the jurisdiction. But in this legislation there is an enlargement, with respect to the pre-existing data of Law No 117, the responsibility of the State for judicial errors, incorrectness, non-compliance or negligence committed by the magistrates. In this we recognize and want to add that we have typicalized, in addition to the case of the dole, on which there was no discussion as a reason for the co-responsibility of the individual judge, once established the liability of the State to compensate for the error, some cases of the so-called serious fault, widening it also to the inexcusable negligence and, as far as our Group is concerned, also to the impriety. On this point, I would like to draw the House's attention to a brief nocturnal glimpse of a debate between those who speak to you and the Minister of Justice on the subject of imperishment. The Minister had expressed the contrary opinion on an amendment, which I signed with other colleagues and which provided for the responsibility of the judge also for inexcusable malpractice, justifying it with a thesis that, in my view and with all respect for the person and institution representing the Guardasigilli, had a rather curious connotation: he said that it could not be admitted that a judge could be considered imperishable when a public contest, done with all the criteria we know, had given him the qualification of absolute expert in knowing the law, in interpreting it and in administering it. It comes to mind all, not being the right an exact science like physics and mathematics, but rather approachable if not to a science to something certainly different from a strict criterion where error is not admitted and the interpretation of the individual and his conduct do not have a great relevance because it is the numbers that express it, the case of medicine. How many doctors have obtained, perhaps even cum laude, a degree in medicine and perhaps have achieved important specializations, have had a really extensive experience in many countries and yet have been imperished in a single case of particular delicacy that has caused damage, perhaps even the death or disability of a patient? And why not consider, in absolute balance and without any acrimony with regard to the judicial order, that a magistrate, although having passed a competition, may be imperishable in a particular case, perhaps of a completely peculiar complexity, if at the moment when he has to judge or investigate a fact he does not have sufficient knowledge to be able to do so, or does not ask for the necessary help or does not do so in a professional way? Therefore, we insist that this is an argument that can constitute the responsibility of the magistrate in the alternative to that recognized by the State. As has already been mentioned by many of my colleagues and with full compliance with the legislation we are passing, the admissibility hearing with regard to the return to the State has been eliminated: the so-called filter that has led, as we know, to almost nine degrees of barriers that are refolding to each other before the start of the real liability procedure, with the result that we know. Out of tens of millions of potential cases, only seven judges, in 26 years, have been called upon to answer for their responsibility for matters related to their function. We recognize, in order to admit the independence of the judge's assessment, both on the fact that he must be aware of and on which he must decide, and on the interpretation of the norm, that an adequate margin of discretion is left to the free conviction of the judge so that his judgment can be truly independent. However, we cannot fail to reiterate - and on this point we have introduced an amendment which we are bringing back to the Chamber, even though it was rejected in the Commission by a majority other than the Government's support - that, where the judge departs from his decision from a judgment issued by the Court of Cassation to united sections, he must give a precise justification for it. Here too, Minister Orlando has given his interpretation. It is true that the sensibility of the magistrate must follow the historical path, the changes of the customs, the sense of modification of some values that the running of history, even speeded up, in our modern age produces; but it is equally true that, when you bring yourself before a court, a court, the certainty of the law, the predictability of the decision, the precedent of the maximum judiciary (for which, Roma locuta, finite cause), of the Court of Cassation, must be taken seriously. When there are arguments to deviate, in full consciousness and in absolute legal assessment by the judge's free conviction, an adequate justification must be given for this to be legitimately possible. Finally, the case of accounting liability resulting from acts which may be the subject of censorship and, therefore, of following the path leading to civil liability, before the State and then the judge who carried out the act, was discussed. We reiterate that this issue could be defined as a reconnaissance amendment, because I do not believe that there can be an obvious, for those who administer the law, from the damage that may cause the State to make its wrong decision. I quote a case of extreme topicality, which had the honours of the chronicle for a violent conflict between the chief prosecutor of the Republic of Milan and one of its eight assistant prosecutors and concerns precisely the case of an accounting responsibility. The Chief Prosecutor would have reported to the Court of Auditors the damage of about one million euros for advice, provided to the judicial custodians, relating to a seizure of 170 million euros to some banks subject to an investigation and then to a trial (finished with the full acquittal and the cancellation of any charge - the fact does not exist - and then passed into court). A million euros of erial damages for paying professionals legal custody, which would have been completely free if the magistrate in question had entrusted the management of the sums seized to the Single Justice Fund. I would like to point out the example of the City of Milan that from the operation in which it appeared as an injured party for aggravated scam has earned 950 million euros; an aggravated scam that brings an advantage of 950 million euros seems to me a good argument to be conned almost every day. However, on a serious matter I do not want to extend my modest thought to something misleading. All I'm saying is that after the banks have been fully recognised as innocent in relation to any fraud, they could legitimately ask the state to recognise an affair that may have caused damage to property and on which there may be some reservations about the type of investigation, how it was carried out and the measures taken. In this case (which I have only led to exemplification because it is a known element of news), as in others, I do not see why the accounting responsibility towards the State should be surrogate as well as civil liability towards individuals (whether individuals, or legal persons) who may have been harmed by unfair behaviour. I conclude by saying that although there would be these corrections that we would like to introduce into the legislation, we recognise that compared to the case of the legislation in force (seven judges out of tens of millions of cases in twenty-six years of total irresponsibility of an entire category) what we are voting on, even if it is better (as I have tried to say), is a better measure than what we leave. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u23	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is now customary, the general discussions on matters of major importance take place in a semi-empty Chamber and, for the most part, distracted, both in order to consolidate what is now the distinctive feature of this Government, which is presented with measures that either are imposed by the imposition of trust, or are completely modified in itinere, or lack of documentation so that the House can know them in the fullness of their structure. We therefore find ourselves in the case of a debate which concerns one of the elements of maximum guarantee in a free and legal state, namely the responsibility of that judicial order which in this State has become power and countering the same legislative power, which intervenes through the Supreme Council of the judiciary by issuing judgments on the laws in itinerant and which is made up of magistrates who, although authoritative, criticize or suggest amendments to proposals that the Government or Parliament make in an attempt to move towards a more just and more serene justice and magistrates, but above all responsible for their mistakes. We are therefore here to propose - not already motu proprio or for our conviction - a measure that brings back the exercise of jurisdiction in the beehive of legitimacy and responsibility. We are here because the European Union has sanctioned us twice, considering that the legislation adopted by the Italian State does not include any specific responsibility of those who judge, even when errors are Marchian and involve the devastation of the lives of the subjects, the failure of companies and many social and human damages, which are already difficult to quantify. We are in such a condition because in this state we wanted to strip the legislative power of the provisions of Article 68 of the Constitution, allowing, at the time when trials are done in newspapers and televisions, to express judgments and slaughter people through them. Newspapers and televisions, in fact, continually repropose the theorems that the public accuses acastella, when it applies the institute of preventive imprisonment against certain subjects, many times (often it does) through the application of two norms. The first, not provided for by the code, concerns the external contest, a crime not typical, but of legal origin, which is used and of which very often is abused by prosecutors; the second is the preventive imprisonment, another cornerstone by virtue of which 26,000 prisoners are left in prison today, of which we know that statistically 50% will be acquitted. We are therefore in a nation in which between 10,000 and 12,000 citizens are suffering the deprivation of freedom, although knowing themselves innocent and knowing the state itself, through the judiciary. 11:19 a.m. (Follow D'ANNA). It is a barbarism: wanting to make a comparison with another area, health care, it is as if we knew that 13,000 people suffering from a disease were left to themselves and therefore wanted to die. We would be outraged, but what else is preventive prison for a man, that is, before the plea of guilt, innocent, if not death? We come to this further attempt and, if you listen to me, I turn to Deputy Minister Costa - the son of Raffaele Costa, one of the fathers of the Liberal Party - who is in other business. Dear Costa, are you not ashamed, as a liberal, to bring such a measure to this House? A measure in which, timidly, the Justice Commission has tried to write that among the cases of criminality for the magistrate there is also a judgment that is not specifically and adequately motivated, that should be the least that pushes those who judge to issue a sentence, as for the scientist it is the least to demonstrate through calculations and scientific evidence the thesis of their discovery, and then came the amendment of the Government, of which you are a part, which deletes the amendment of the Commission by deleting the words "specifically and adequately motivated." That is to say that we continue to allow a magistrate to issue the sentence that causes the libertid and human failures to which I have just referred, without having the obligation to motivate it adequately and specifically, attacking it to the case that he has judged. Keep in mind that in the countries in which common law exists there is no code, there is a series of judgments that make jurisprudence themselves, because there is no murder but there are many cases and many different contexts and circumstances in which this crime can mature, so in the cradle of Anglo-Saxon law each case must be judged and evaluated for what it is and cannot be taxonomically framed in a context for which the caption of murder or theft applies. Different things cannot be judged in the same way. Albertini, in his learned and quiet language, recalled a quotation. Allow me to recall another, which is of a general nature: said Fr Lorenzo Milani, a pedagogy and politician, as well as a great priest, that the greatest of injustices is to make equal parts between unequals. At a time when we do not have a common law-based system, we often deal with different cases and crimes that have matured in different contexts and circumstances under the same code rule. That is why the rule must be as comprehensive as possible in all cases and circumstances. But what do we do today? We are dealing with the only two elements of concreteness that can identify the responsibility, the impriety and the inability of a magistrate: the specificity and the proper motivation for which, through the sentence, the conviction is imposed. Dear Costa, if this is then a principle of liberalism, I must say that you trample not only on your liberal belief, but also on the history of your family! COSTA, Deputy Minister for Justice. Please! D'ANNA (GAL). You cannot come in here and propose such a measure, which repeats the custom that judges are irresponsible in the face of their mistakes! Those who have raised the judiciary at the moment of political struggle can do so. It can be done by the handcuffs, some bulging senator - who I don't mention because he is not present - who comes here to teach anti-mafia lessons not fearing ridicule or triglycerides, like Senator Giarrusso, but you can't do it! So, what do you say? If this deleterious amendment of the specification is maintained that a judgment should be appropriate and specific at the same time in the explanatory statement, thus giving the magistrate the impunity and absolute irresponsibility, we will vote against it, not because we like the criminals or the camorrists, not because we are pronubes or accomplices of them. We, here, are primarily responsible for the freedom of individuals; we are primarily responsible for the fact that individuals do not succumb in their negative freedom to any form of abomination and prevarication, and are not subject to free will and undisputed, indisputable and irreproachable power of magistrates who, like all professionals, like all men, must combine freedom with responsibility. Why is this order that has become power not brought back to the principle of responsibility? What prevents it, the fear of denunciation? I have already received a few oblique warnings which should make me a little more calm, but I have nothing to hide and, where I am the victim of something and someone, I remain the words I say in this House. We have our backs straight because we are senators of the Italian Republic and denounce this illiberal regime through which those who judge us and condemn us are immune from any responsibility and any act that ascertains its serenity, peace and, above all, adherence to those norms of law to which we must subjugate all. Between the absolutism of the Sun King and free and democratic societies there is only the law: those who are not under the law are in the exversion of the State and civil coexistence. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Albertini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u25	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, at some point in his report this morning, Mr Buemi - if you will allow me, my friend - has claimed his political tradition, that of the autonomous socialism of Mr Vassalli and of course also of President Craxi and many others, the continuity of conviction that civil responsibility has been the deterrent historically identified by guaranteeing that the protagonists of the institution of justice are responsible. Of course, my friend Buemi refers to that referendum promoted by the Socialist Party and - allow me, Mr D'Anna - also by the Liberal Party, whose representatives deserve respect and affection, for which I felt unfair and ingenious some considerations about the son of a dear friend who in this House we have the honour to have as Deputy Minister... D'ANNA (GAL). What brings these fetishes to the House! Comrade (NCD). And that with the deep respect of the House... D'ANNA (GAL). You can't do that! Comrade (NCD). ...and the government has carried out its functions so far. Then, on the opinion on the amendments, of course, the speech is open, although it seemed to me that my friend D'Anna slipped slightly. That referendum had a result that seemed to be strong enough: twenty million citizens who spoke in favour of the question at the time. This morning I heard - it seems to me that Senator Ricchiuti has said - that this topic would be far from the priorities of the citizens, but that result and those twenty million cannot be considered subordinate to his confidence in the statements of Saviano interviewed by Fazio. The government is the one who trusted Parliament, not Saviano's on television. In the government there is a Minister of Justice who must be respected, just as there is a Deputy Minister who must be respected in the same way; the question of a President of a Commission working in Via Arenula, willing and active like Dr Gratteri, is not on the agenda of this House. It seems to me that in the report to the bill Senator Buemi, with socialist patriotism - if I may say so - has claimed great opposition to that deterrent of a draft law of the PCI, of Senator Pecchioli's initiative. In the Pecchioli report, he said that the referendum on Articles 55, 56 and 74 of the Code of Civil Procedure unnecessarily emphasized the significance of that type of responsibility. The threat of professionalism - said the willing Senator Pecchioli - is a narrow vision of justice policy. Yes, but these arguments tend to return to corporate, non-parliamentary, current affairs today. Which is even worse, considering that the Party of Pecchioli the battle against the referendum made it face-to-face, while so many insertions in justice policy are much slimier, more cowardly and more improper, precisely because less politicians and more corporate. The aversion to the civil responsibility of the magistrates, however, has never rebelled against the fact that the deterrence of responsibility has always functioned for the professionalism of the engineers or doctors, who - and we come to another Italian anomaly and only Italian - have autonomous bodies belonging to their professional order. The Italian Constitution, on the other hand, provided for the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which had an ancient idea developed by Vittorio Emanuele Orlando when he was Minister of Justice, excluding, however, in the name of his tradition of Anglo-Saxon law, that the power of justice, the jurisdictional power, was bodily order. What, then, is the damned contradiction of the institutional condition of the Italian judiciary? Two paths were planned: that of civil liability and that of disciplinary responsibility. That of disciplinary responsibility, already at the time of the referendum promoted by the socialists, had fallen in profound desuescence, because disciplinary responsibility is now possible only if the Higher Council determines a convergence of currents that can implement it, otherwise disciplinary responsibility has fallen in tremendous desuetude. Minister Mancuso tried to recover it in the Dini Government, but he was defeated by a parliamentary majority who claimed control over the exercise of that constitutional power and took the lead against the initiative that the Guardasigilli had taken, determining his resignation with the instrument of self-confidence ad personam. That is why, with deep respect and deep attention also to the opinions, which I do not share at all, expressed this morning by Senator Ricchiuti, I must tell you that the Constitution does not foresee or does not yet foresee the permanent glorification of the heroes of clean Hands and that the page that led Mancuso to not be able to exercise profiles of disciplinary responsibility was not a good page in our constitutional history. So let's get back to our problem. Senator Buemi came by this morning. There is a bureaucratic organization of the judiciary and it is represented by the French model and, to a large extent, also by the Italian model, which establishes that the judiciary is accessed by competition. Then there is the Anglo-Saxon model, which provides that the judiciary is a professional entity. In this case, however, lawyers are also fully involved. That is why in Great Britain the control over the work of the judiciary takes place thanks to the corporate unity between lawyers and magistrates, while the Italian constitutional model is another. But then these same Italian magistrates, who claim our tradition, that of competition and bureaucratic organization, wanted the ineffectiveness of disciplinary responsibility. The Supreme Council of the judiciary was implemented in 1958. There was, however, a warning speech by a very prestigious and long-term Member of Parliament, Mr Scalfaro, who proposed an amendment to the Constitution on the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in which by subverting the original proposals of Leo and Calamandrei, he asked what this freedom was to the west, stating that that of the robe is medieval corporate libertas. In other words, the corporate movements to the left were anticipated from the right which led, in the sixties and seventies, to a corporate union drift like that of today. The Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is not reflected in any Western constitutional model, has placed the handcuffs - it should be said - at the institute of disciplinary responsibility. That is why civil liability has been so important, tense and attentive since 1987. It must be said that the Vassalli law has failed, and I say this with all due respect for the proposing minister - I believe also shared by Senator Albertini - and with all the friendship and affection for the rapporteur, who was our friend Del Pennino. Compared to that time, we have tried to proceed on the European route, and Senator Buemi has, with intelligent considerations, put forward the point of view of that road and, from a legislative point of view, seems to be more satisfactory than that of our attention. Some forms of gross guilt have been attempted, in addition to the dole. Senator Albertini pointed out the case of impriety. Perhaps behind that debate in the Commission on the amendment between Mr Albertini and Minister Orlando, there was a continuous oscillation between two models of judiciary: the bureaucratic model and the model of professional organisation, which perhaps we will find in those profiles of accounting responsibility, understood - as Senator Albertini said - as reconnaissance amendments, to which I believe the Group represented by Senators Albertini and Giovanardi, with such prestige, in the Commission Justice, will also be the subject of its contribution in this House. What is certain is that we should arrive at a measure that overcomes the corporate barriers that outside this House make themselves felt with protection, arrogance and blackmail. How hateful - from this point of view my feelings are quite similar to those of Senator D'Anna - was the behavior of the judiciary in the little glorious epic of clean Hands, to the detriment of the Constitution. Having said that, I think that so far there are all the premises for achieving a balanced solution without punitive spirits and revenge, as Senator Ricchiuti fears. Be quiet, Senator: there is absolutely no revenge in those who have suffered violence and protect others and want to forget them in the name of political values that had in the liberal tradition - since it has been mentioned - a point of reference, in which it is the honour of Italy that has recognized itself - I speak of the bill of that time - the socialist tradition, in full respect of the defeated (Senator Pecchioli). But not defeated by history; in this I am liberal to the end: I will never use for a communist, although I have always been anti-communist, the expression "you have been defeated by history." History does not judge, if anything, and we hope to interpret it well in this debate and in the vote of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Giovanardi and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u27	I greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Luigi Fantappiè in Viterbo, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the rules governing the civil liability of members of the judicial order are thorny matters is quite clear; it is even more so after listening to the previous speeches. Since 1988, when Parliament passed the Vassalli Act, in the wake of the popular referendum that introduced the civil liability of judges, the need to amend it was equally clear. That despite the sanctions of the European Union so far, the State is not liable for damages even in the event of a manifest violation of European law is a very topical issue and that this lack of justice has cost us a severe sanction in 2011 by the European Court is a matter for the acts of this Parliament. It follows, Mr President, that, in view of the results produced by the Vassalli Act, which have been judged by several parties not to meet the original objectives set with the referendum, various draft laws have been submitted over time to introduce amendments both in substance and in procedural terms in order to contest, on the one hand, the need for a real applicability of the civil liability of the magistrates and, on the other hand, not to compromise the necessary autonomy and independence of the magistrates. The Court of Justice of the European Union has been strongly involved in the difficult debate on this subject, which has on several occasions expressed its opinion on the non-compliance of the Vassalli law with the rules of Community law. A further attempt has been made with the bill No. 1070 and related: justice in the Senate was in full discussion in the Commission at the beginning of this year, so much so that the deadline for amendments had already been set in February. However, since in this country, Mr President, there is always some "buts," this heated and complex debate has undergone the ice shower of the approval of the amendment Pini to the House when examining European law. The result is, therefore, a slight loss by the Government that has announced the presentation of its own bill, which has actually frozen the discussion until September 24 of this year, when the Government has presented its own bill in which it gives a different imprint, a different line of its own from that elaborated in parliamentary work. As I said, the issue is absolutely complex and, as is well known, the judiciary must not, and can, be restricted or interfered in such a way as to undermine the position of absolute independence of the judiciary. If it is necessary to be impartial and independent to judge, a magistrate, as well as a magistrate, cannot be considered free from all sorts of consequences in relation to his actions, because all his mistakes reverberate on the fundamental rights of citizens, especially when it comes to personal freedom. Yet the referendum of 26 years ago was a "succession," and the Vassalli law had been quickly and fury packed to put a stop to this referendum (what we fear happens to our referendum on the issue referred to in the Fornero law). This law had resoundingly blanched what the referendum had formally asked for and, therefore, compensation is formally admitted, but in fact it is a chimera, written only between the lines of this law. The European Commission itself in its report on the efficiency of justice in the Council of Europe condemns our judicial system. We have millions of pending proceedings. It takes us about 500 days for the civil process at first instance, against the 290 in Spain, the 280 in France and the 185 in Germany: then we wonder why companies do not come to this country to invest. We need about 80 euros per inhabitant per year for the operation of the judicial machinery, against a European average of about 58 euros. We of the League believed that, with this amendment to the law, one should and could certainly dare more. The attempt to find forms of mediation and compromise will lead to results that will disconcert all parties. So, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of smoke for very little roast. The real problem, of which no one speaks, is not who will pay for the error committed (if it is the State, which will rely on the magistrate), but if and when the responsibility will be acclaimed. This will cause the mechanism to rewind on itself to find a quirk to not be operational. This leads me to believe that it is not right, Mr President, that there is responsibility without power, nor is it right that there should be power without responsibility. The two things must, play hard, go hand in hand. Mr President, ordinary mortals, at a time when they make a mistake (this also applies to all professional categories), dole or simple fault (and thus harming other citizens), rightly have to pay. For the magistrates this does not always apply: if the magistrate is wrong the serious fault must not be certified, and, therefore, a very complex mechanism for verification is triggered. Our concern is, therefore, that little will change. Let us not, therefore, call it a reform of justice; let us not call it an innovative reform or a decisive reform. Let us simply say, Mr President, that more could be done and that is the only sure thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u29	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u30	Mr President, I begin with a brief premise for the benefit of those who wish to be informed, to understand what we are discussing now. We are talking about the civil responsibility of the magistrates, governed by the so-called Vassalli law, which was born - it is worth remembering - following the expression of the popular will, which the year before (1987) was consulted by referendum. The meaning is as follows: the civil wrongdoing of the magistrate obliges only the State, which, if condemned, exercises its revenge against its employee. It is therefore an indirect responsibility. A choice made at the time by the legislator to harmonize two distinct principles, both valid, but which cannot conflict with each other: on the one hand, the protection of the citizen damaged by a judgment, let's say, unfair and, on the other, the guarantee of the constitutional value of independence and autonomy of jurisdiction. Other - much more - would instead be direct responsibility, in which, that is, it is not the State that responds, but directly and personally the individual judge: a form of pressure that could influence and influence the judgment, especially when the magistrate was called to express himself in a dispute that was to oppose an influential subject, and perhaps economically powerful, to a subject instead weaker or even completely weak. It should be borne in mind that this responsibility is provided, in its indirect form, in all democratic systems. I would like to give some examples. In France, the magistrate is considered a professional who realizes for his part the proper functioning of the State in guaranteeing compliance with the rules by all, but the three - there are three - liability regimes all provide that the State will guarantee any victims of the denial of justice or of the guilt of the magistrates, later revaling on them. What happens in Germany? The concept of judicial immunity has been introduced in order to ensure the impartiality of the judge and legal certainty, while the State or Federation or the Länder are liable to the injured person in the event of a breach of the duties of judges, both in their role and in their fees. The United Kingdom's common law also means that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed by the waiver of the direct civil liability of judges in the performance of their duties. In the English system they are rather reminded of the duty to correspond to a concept of accountability, a reliability in their work both externally and in their relationship with the public authorities and with the order of which they are part, while on the side of the transposition of the Human Rights Act of 1988 has been identified in the State the person called to compensate in the case of unjust detention. To come to us, one cannot forget the fact that the judiciary is one of the three pillars laid down by the Constitution: three independent (legislative, executive and judicial) powers - especially the last - to guarantee the democratic foundations of our Republic. We see the contamination between the first two every day at the expense of the efficiency of the first, that is, the legislative power, but also the second, of the executive power. I believe that none of us at this point wants to further compromise the constitutional dictation (or perhaps not, perhaps not so); it is in fact that legal certainty is also guaranteed through a judiciary that operates impartially and without conditioning. All this is so regulated because of the delicate duties of the judges. Too many times, even today, I have heard judges compare to other categories of professionals and civil servants, with the argument - which is quite appealing to a public opinion today exasperated by the general malfunction of the justice machine - that if a doctor directly responds to his mistakes, for example, it is not clear why a judge should not answer his own. Who says this neglects to consider - or does not really mean - that a judge, because of the very nature of his function, finds himself and will always find himself in front of two subjects in conflict between them and it is also evident that he is called to express himself, in what becomes a judgment in synthesis, in favor of one or in favor of the other: an event from which - and this would understand even a child - a part will certainly come out dissatisfied. The case of a doctor, whose activity is carried out in the care of a sick person, with whom he shares the ultimate objective of their interaction. The argument of the wrongdoer pays is all the more dangerous (as well as quick and approximate) for a judicial activity that is independent and autonomous in a country like ours, in which is generalized the tendency to live their own cases as an exception to the rules, in which is now consolidated the habit to legislate in a stratified, disorganic and uneven way, and in which even the language of the laws is tortuous and (perhaps deliberately) often unaware of the correct and transparent use of the Italian language. For this reason too, the Vassalli law contains the safeguard clause, so it is always without prejudice to the activity of interpreting the law and that of assessing the fact and the evidence: a concept that is also maintained in the text that we are debating here today. We come to today's needs, which lead us to discuss the amendments to that 1988 text. There are basically two reasons for this revision: the first is the lack of implementation of this law. Indeed, the document which was handed over to us at the time, the report of effectiveness since 1988, shows that the proposals have been 410; 71 those pending eligibility, 266 the final inadmissible, 25 the inadmissible challenged, 35 the final eligible, 7 the accepted, 17 the rejected and 44 the pending. We can admit that the filter certainly works in an extremely powerful way. Therefore, the lack of application of this law is supposed to be mainly in relation to the existence of the eligibility filter, which is the preliminary consideration that the citizen's request must overcome so that his application can be carried out. The infringement procedure, on the other hand, is the second reason. An infringement procedure has been opened by the European Commission against us in which Italy is called upon to supplement the legislation in force, including the right for the private citizen to seek compensation from the State, in the event that the damage he has suffered is the result of an incorrect interpretation of European rules, an erroneous assessment of the facts and evidence carried out in the last degree of judgment or a manifest violation of European law in force. Now, that is certain, but let us immediately clear the field from a legend: Europe does not ask us to introduce a direct responsibility; indeed, the Court of Justice of the European Union has confirmed that this responsibility must fall on the State. The text which now arrives in this Chamber, to be honest, is very similar to what we philologists would call a corrupt step - absit iniuria verbis - in which "correct" is explained by a very rough path that has long kept the Commission engaged in a difficult and delicate work of reflection, composition and recomposition of different positions. Personally, I have to say that, for good or for bad, the fact that a parliamentary process has been carried out in which the Government, while wishing on several occasions to intervene in a more massive way with its own draft law, has actually been active limited to the part that belongs to it and is fixed, that is to say to make amending proposals and to participate constructively in the debate. I therefore believe that this parliamentary process is a victory for parliamentary democracy, because we have seen a debate in the Commission on substance, a technical and political debate on such a complex matter, and above all an expression of the vote of the individual elected representatives. This despite the negative echo in the strange majority that governs us, and that we have heard echo even today, and despite the interference of the concomitant European law; I want to remind here that in a bill of government initiative through a secret vote has been inserted, overturning the will of the government, direct responsibility, then removed in the Senate, thanks to that perfect bicameralism that this same Government (which took advantage of it and takes advantage of it more and more) would want to eliminate, with a vote of confidence. Beyond the evidence that my brief narration highlights in terms of difficulties with respect to the relationship between the existence of a majority and its political will to move in a certain direction and the correspondence then with the vote of the elected representatives, the fact that we come to this House with such a path, beyond the results and contents, must be taken as a victory for all of us who have finally done what we had to do here and who are called to do. In the original text under discussion in the Senate, with the adoption of deleterious amendments tabled by a number of groups, including my group, Article 1, which contained the introduction of direct responsibility, was deleted in the Commission. It was thus suppressed by an improperly criticized vote, as if responsibility for taking a position on such a sensitive subject could be conditioned by higher or extra-parliamentary agreements. In the text dismissed by the Commission, the eligibility filter was removed, which could actually resolve the poor application of the Vassalli law, even if it could lead to an indiscriminate overload of demands (probably very well founded, but perhaps many even unfounded). What is required to close the infringement procedure, i.e. the consideration of European law, has been included, although with a wording that takes up equal in the final part, in a somewhat clumsy way, the text of the judgment of the European Court cited above: the judge must take into account the position adopted by a European institution, not restricting what is meant by 'institutions' and using a language that is not really the most suitable for such a sensitive matter. It is not a strict definition, but we will still consider, when discussing the amendments, this and other aspects perhaps not well coordinated in the text. I would like to make some brief final remarks, which are very important to me. The institution of civil liability has a repairing function aimed at compensating those who have been damaged. It would be improper to give her an ethical connotation, just as it would be improper to sell this institute as a tool to increase the scrupulousness and quality of the magistrate's performance and, consequently, to solve - just as we would like the recipients of a media use of the subject - a system in difficulty such as the administration of justice and the administration of the law would be magically streamlined, by virtue of pressure on the magistrates themselves. It is sadly obvious that this is not the case, it will not be the case and it would not be the case. As Mrs Stefani has already said, and as has already been said in this House, justice (we will never stop saying so), particularly civil justice, would need much more: from serious investments in computerization to better distribution of resources and much more, which the Commission is primarily responsible for. We, as legislators, would have other priorities. The Vice President of the European Commission Timmermans last week placed first on the list of urgent actions that our country needs, the fight against corruption and financial crimes. And here we stall, delay and wait. It seems to me that justice has been happening for years in education, another pillar - perhaps not by chance - in the construction of civic sense. Since we do not (or do not want) succeed in having a truly efficient system, let's talk about something else, we remove credibility and resources, we destitute functions in public opinion, we do not invest in the quality and professionalism of all those who contribute to achieving their constitutional objectives. So let us conclude this good parliamentary process out of necessity, realizing that, however, the needs that justice needs today are others. And we'll take care of it quickly. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u32	Mr President, today the House comes to the adoption of an important measure, which regulates a controversial and extremely sensitive aspect, in a system in which the balance of the powers of the State must always remain in balance. All forms of profession and in general human activities are subjected to more or less serious forms of responsibility. It is therefore not justifiable, and we consider it an unbearable privilege, that judicial errors remain without consequences and that their perpetrators are protected from all consequences thanks to the responsibility of the State, which ultimately affects the rights of every citizen. The references to the case law of the European institutions also inevitably confirm the principle that there is no exercise of power without equal responsibility. The Commission's text, which I thank for its work, is a good starting point in this respect. The article intervenes on the system so far governed by Law No 117 of 13 April 1988 which regulates the compensation for damages caused in the performance of judicial functions and the civil liability of the magistrates. As is well known, this regulatory apparatus was introduced into our legal system following a repealing referendum which, by eliminating it, engraved on the norms of the Code of Civil Procedure which governed the irresponsibility of the magistrate for damages deriving from the exercise of judicial functions. Under the current system, the citizen can act only against the State and not directly against the magistrate. In the event of a conviction, the State may exercise its revenge on the magistrate whose conduct gave rise to the conviction. Article 1 contains the object and purpose of the bill. The object is the modification of the norms referred to in the above law with the aim of making effective the discipline that regulates the civil liability of the State and the magistrates, also in the light of the belonging of Italy to the European Union. Article 2 provides, acting on the same law, that, in the exercise of judicial functions, the activity of interpreting the rules of law or of assessing the facts and evidence cannot be held liable in the performance of judicial functions, without prejudice to the cases of malice. Moreover, it is established that the manifest violation of the law and of European Union law, the misrepresentation of the fact or evidence, or the affirmation of a fact the existence of which is incontestably excluded from the acts of the proceedings or the denial of a fact the existence of which appears incontestably from the acts of the procedure, or the issue of a personal or real precautionary measure outside the cases allowed by the law or without specific and appropriate motivation are grave fault. Paragraph 3-a states that, in order to determine the cases in which there is a manifest breach of the law and of European Union law, account shall be taken, in particular, of the degree of clarity and precision of the rules violated, as well as of the inexcusability and seriousness of the non-compliance. In the event of a manifest breach of European Union law, account must be taken of the position adopted by an institution of the European Union and of the non-compliance with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling under Article 267 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 3 proposes to equalise the time limits for the exercise of the responsibility action. Article 4, which excludes the effectiveness of the judgment, amends paragraph 2 of Article 6 of Law No 188 of 1988 (Vassalli law) which excludes the effectiveness of the judgment of the sentence of order for compensation in the case of revenge and disciplinary action. Articles 5 and 6 govern the practical exercise of revenge and regress action. In particular, with regard to the action for damages, it is expected that the President of the Council of Ministers, within two years of the compensation made on the basis of a judicial order or an out-of-court order, shall have the obligation to take the action against the magistrate in the event of a denial of justice, or in cases where the manifest violation of the law or law of the European Union or the misrepresentation of the fact or evidence have been determined by inexcusable malice or negligence. In no case is the transaction opposable to the magistrate in the judgment of revalsa or disciplinary judgment. The popular judges answer only in case of malice. Citizens outside the judiciary who contribute to the formation or formation of collegial judicial bodies shall respond in the event of malice or inexcusable negligence due to misrepresentation of the fact or evidence. The amount of the refund may not exceed a sum equal to half a year's salary, net of tax deductions, received by the magistrate at the time when the claim is brought, even if the fact has resulted in damage to more than one person and they have acted with separate actions of liability. That limit shall not apply to the fact committed by a court. The payment of the refund, when carried out by deduction on the salary, may not involve a total payment for monthly instalments of more than three times the net salary of the salary. As has already been said, the text is therefore a good starting point. This does not mean that it is not perfectible and, in our opinion, it must also be straightened out. It is not clear why, in cases of manifest breach of the law, account should also be taken of the lack of adaptation by the court, without sufficient justification, to the interpretation of the law expressed by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. The obligation for the judge to justify judgments different from the judgments to united sections of the Cassation is certainly a strong element, but it guarantees the confidence of the citizen to the law and the institutions. At a time when, for example, the administrations are being asked for transparency in the procedures adopted, in which the motivation of the measure is considered as mandatory towards the citizen, both as an element of transparency and as a factor for the elimination of the information asymmetries that may exist in the proceedings, it is not clear why this cannot be done in the judicial field. The obligation for magistrates to explain why they depart from the judgments of the United Chambers of Cassation is, in our opinion, a citizen's right, which must know what the judge's innovation is. The Court's function of nomotherapy responds to the need to ensure certainty in the interpretation of the rules and guarantee the rights of citizens. The draft law states that it cannot give rise to liability for the interpretation of rules of law, but that, in the event of a manifest breach of the law, it must necessarily take into account the failure to adapt, without sufficient justification, to the interpretation of the law expressed by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. On the other hand, this function of the Cassation is divided into two distinct sub-functions: on the one hand, that of ensuring the implementation of the law in the concrete case, realizing the judicial profile in the strict sense; on the other hand, that of providing uniform interpretative guidelines, in order to maintain, as far as possible, the unity of the legal order through a substantial standardization of the jurisprudence. This second case therefore leads to legal certainty and the same legislative interventions, even recently, have gone in the direction of strengthening this role of the Court. Legislative Decree No. 40 of 2006 aimed essentially to give greater weight to the decisions of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, preventing those simple to depart from them, if they did not refer the problematic question to a new judgment of the United Chambers. The decree enhances the traditional function of ensuring uniform interpretation of the law and guaranteeing the unity of the national objective law which the judicial order assigns to the Supreme Court. I shall conclude, Mr President, by highlighting other aspects that could be improved in the text. The action of the State against the magistrate must be exercised even when its responsibility derives from inexcusable malpractice, not only from malice or inexcusable negligence. We also believe that the court's accounting and accounting liability must be defined in a certain way after the State has paid for malpractice against a natural or legal person. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u33	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the substance of the measure under consideration, its technical significance, problems of interpretation, the numerous errors and amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement, which are necessary to better define the situation, the honourable Member has just spoken. I would therefore like to make a few more political assessments on the merits of the political choice to bring this very bill into the Chamber among the dozens of much more urgent measures and of which justice in our country would absolutely need. The Senate Justice Commission worked until 2:00 a.m. to dismiss this measure; the Minister of Justice and Deputy Minister Costa were present all the time. Many citizens will have wondered whether this was a measure to combat corruption or fake in the budget, or whether the issue of tax evasion or how to combat the mafia has been discussed. In fact, our country is devastated by corruption. Organized crime is the country's first turnover enterprise and more than 130,000 trials are prescribed each year, equal to as many failures of our justice. None of this has been dealt with. We held back to examine and dismiss the law on the civil liability of magistrates. However, we have never before had such a qualified representation of the Government in the Commission in this parliamentary term throughout the voting time, and the Commission has never held back until that time, as if the civil responsibility of the magistrates had now become the priority of priorities. In fact, for you of this majority have become the judges and their profile of responsibility the real priority for the country. But will that on the civil liability of judges the reform that will give a turning point to justice in Italy? Before the fight against the mafia, the fight against evasion and the introduction of fake into the budget, the adoption of a law finally anti-corruption? Before the conflict of interest rule? With a center-right government, there was probably talk in the country of intimidation or even revenge against the judiciary. With the center-left of the government, however, everything is normalized. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It becomes even normal to table an amendment to Law No 1070 of the following tone: In such cases the magistrate will have to undergo a psycho-aptitudinal examination by a medical college, composed of ordinary professors of psychiatry... to assess their suitability for the profession. In the event of a successful outcome... the magistrate is required to ask public apologies to the injured person in the main square of the city where the court of his place of residence is located. Now, apart from the evidence that the need for a psychiatric visit is most likely the proposer of the amendment, apart from the fact that if it had not been withdrawn it would have been rejected in the Commission, the tone of this amendment makes the idea of how it means the separation of powers, autonomy and independence of the judiciary a significant part of the political forces present in this House, according to which the figure of the magistrate does not fit the constitutional model at all. Forces with which this majority carries out the most important reforms in this country. Both the civil responsibility of the magistrates and the questioning of the principle of mandatory prosecution and the separation of the careers of the magistrates are three traditional battle horses of Berlusconi, which have not been particularly lucky in past legislation. So we needed a central-left government. Moreover, for over a year, in the Justice Commission we deal not only with the civil responsibility of the magistrates, but also with their incandidability, disciplinary sanctions for the magistrates and so on, in defiance of the real priorities of justice in our country. The worsening civil liability of judges presents the risk of blackmailing and threatening the PM or the judge, especially in the most sensitive cases. It is quite predictable that action will be taken especially in cases where important economic issues are at stake. An average PM in Italy can have 800 pending investigations, and sometimes we know that they are many more. In each of them he will have at least one offended person or a disgruntled suspect who is ready to appeal. Of course, some people have argued that Europe is basically asking us to do so. But Europe is asking us to apply the principle that the Member States of the European Union are responsible for the damage caused to individuals by judgments contrary to European law. Quoting Professor Trimarchi: "The judgment and European law require a responsibility of the State, and not of the judge. In the judgment there is not even a line that can be interpreted in that sense, nor could it have been there. Even according to the CSM and the ANM there is no obligation for Italy to introduce a responsibility of the individual judge. Indeed, Europe confirms that the only person responsible for the citizen is the State. Brussels merely states that Italy has failed to comply with the judgment condemning the Court of Justice of the European Union. The judgment reiterated the State's direct responsibility to the citizen, stating that liability itself cannot be limited to only cases of malice or gross negligence of the court, but must be extended to all cases of incorrect application of the Community rule. I would like to mention a few brief lines of considerations put forward by Judge Alessio Liberati, who is still present: Will the bill on the civil liability of magistrates help me to make right or less wrong decisions? I'm afraid not. It's a law I don't like. Not out of fear of being convicted: it will be enough to pay insurance, probably. Not out of fear of being judged: paying for my mistakes, paradoxically, would help me unload my conscience. I'm afraid, instead, I don't have the courage to judge serenely. I'm afraid to judge with the back thought, not even declared to myself, to risk money and career. But, above all, I'm afraid of being involuntarily conditioned by those in front of me. Yes, because in the future (...) the judges would risk nothing if they made a decision against a weak person, a poor person, a marginalized person, who already (...) is certainly not benefited by the legal assistance of a prince of the forum. They will risk careers and money, however, only when they judge the powerful on duty, the rich, the arrogant who can afford to uncomfortable lawyers and pay money to seek "justice at all costs" (but, most of the time, it would be correct to call it revenge). In conclusion, putting in hand the rule on the civil liability of magistrates to make it more effective may be appropriate even if it is not as urgent as the many other issues already mentioned, but I have the full impression that this too will be another law that will favor the powerful, will marginally weaken the judiciary and, consequently, increase injustice. Frankly, there was no need for it at all. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u35	I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education Carlo and Nello Rosselli in Aprilia, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u36	Mr President, I take the floor with a little discomfort, although I supported the Government's demand - well-founded - to speed up the timetable for this bill and, although I supported a number of amendments which had been drawn up by myself and accepted by the Government. The inconvenience stems from the fact that, even yesterday, the Minister of Justice spoke of a possible decree-law which, on the contrary, is becoming more and more likely. I think we should all reason. In this area - and I am addressing Senator Cappelletti in particular - regulatory intervention is not only required by the decision of the European Court, but by the ineffectiveness and inability of the so-called Vassalli law to respond to this problem. I would like to remind everyone of Article 2 of the Vassalli Act, which has not been amended, which specifically says that those who have suffered unjust damage due to conduct, act or judicial action brought by the magistrate with malice or gross negligence in the performance of his duties may act against the State in order to obtain compensation for the damage. Why is this standard written? Since 1968 the Constitutional Court has said that Article 28 of the Constitution also applies to magistrates. For those who do not remember it, Article 28 specifies that civil servants are directly responsible and that this responsibility extends to the State. The Court added that this provision could be modulated differently for judges in order to guarantee their autonomy and independence. In this regard, the text before us, which is the initiative of Senator Buemi and other senators and which has already been voted on by the Commission, contains the safeguard clause which characterises all the rules on civil, administrative and disciplinary liability of judges, establishing the principle that it cannot give rise to liability for the interpretation of rules of law, nor for the evaluation of facts and evidence. This statement, which I fully agree with, led me to present in the Commission, with the consent of the Government, a whole series of amendments referring to paragraph 3, Article 2, concerning precisely the identification of the various cases, compared to the hypothesis of misrepresentation of the fact and the evidence introduced by the Government: on this point I must say that the Vassalli text, which contained a exhaustive list, was better. I have already announced to you that - thinking that it could then be modified - I have decided to withdraw the amendment that I tabled on the elimination of the misrepresentation of the fact and the evidence, not already because it is necessary, but simply because it is combined with the Court's statement, contained in the so-called Mediterranean Ferries judgment: what is concerned, in fact, is specification. I therefore come to a number of amendments which still do not allow us to be satisfied and which I should like to clarify, because in the course of the debate in the Commission someone argued that this was a position aimed at imposing judicial conformity. Deputy Minister Costa, Senator Zanda and Senator Lumia know how I played the role of the Government when I was a part of it both in this House and in the House. I believe that it is the duty of the Government, Mr Deputy Minister, to try to verify the goodness of the amendments and the possibility of mediation solutions. This is in fact the reality when it comes to identifying the correct principles. Amendment 2.117 aims to add the following words to paragraph 1 (c) of paragraph 3 of Article 3: "i.e. not having taken into account, without specific reasons, the interpretation of the law expressed by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation." For those who do not know - I do not mean out of ignorance - this is the strong affirmation of the freedom of the judge in the interpretation of the law. If there is no such principle, there is no freedom. This principle enabled the Court of Cassation to rule on the incorrect interpretation which it wanted the Court of Cassation to comply with its decisions. Since these are statements, it was wrong to use the term differentiation, as stated in Senator Buemi's proposal. It's not that. The judge must refer the sentence. What is this? It is negligent, the most gross negligence: a judge who does not take into account how a rule has been interpreted by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation and is sufficient only to cite and justify it; this has always been the principle of freedom of decision of the judge and not of conformation. And if it is not there, it means that in the face of having finally defeated that argument that wanted the judge to conform to the regime of the Court of Cassation, it means to say again today to return to that doubt that instead it does not exist. Having failed to take account of it means precisely this, that we must only quote because, otherwise, you are an ignorant. We don't have an elected judge. A judge in our country pronounces the sentences in the name of the Italian people and obtains its legitimacy not from the competition. The legitimacy of the judge derives from his professionalism, his way of exercising his function and, when he exercises his function, ignoring what is a principle of law and wronging a citizen because he ignores that principle of law, is wrong. A different thing is to say that although there is that principle of law, the judge has the possibility to justify otherwise and not to take into account that principle, as it actually happened. I quote only one of the cases; in the disciplinary responsibility of journalists, after 50 years that the Court of Cassation considered that the limitation period did not ripen during the judgments of Cassation, there was a college which, despite constant jurisprudence, stated otherwise for a certain reason. Freedom is here. I therefore do not understand a possible contrary opinion from the Government. That is why I called for a government that can act as a mediation government and can take account of this principle, shared and affirmed by all. To express the opposite view, Mr President, would only be to do so because it is proposed by the opposition. Only for this reason, because if it is shared, it is necessary to be consistent with what is written. Then there is another aspect, which is even stronger. In paragraph 3 of Article 2, we have identified cases where there may be serious guilt. Whose? Not of the State, Senator Cappelletti, but the serious fault of the magistrate, because it is only the magistrate who determines the responsibility of the State, and it is not the reverse. And then, if that is the case, you realize that today, in Europe, we have a system under which any judge of any State of the European Union cannot interpret the rule of European law. If you have doubts or interpret it as the letter of the law says, you must refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has its seat in Luxembourg for interpretation. And the government put it right. But what is the consequence? If the Court has already given that interpretation, there is an obligation on the courts to comply. The fact that only the European Court of Justice is empowered to interpret European law means one thing: uniform interpretation of law must be ensured in all European States. This is the reason for my further amendment, which is a specification of what you have said, even if I propose a replacement, as well as other senators, in the sense that I propose to replace, in paragraph 1 (c) paragraph 3 (bis), second sentence, the words: All this in the knowledge that, in European language, the position adopted is also a sort of standardisation and measures of the European institution. Then, Mr Vice-Minister, reformulate the amendment, taking into account mine and specifying the idea of what was written in the Government's amendment, so that it would depend with the other on not having taken account of it. This means leaving to the interpreter the doubt of interpretation, which is wrong because we must give certainties, especially in this matter. I've heard, if I remember correctly, from Senator Mancuso and some other senator, of the need to include impriety and so on. In my amendment 5,103, Mr Vice-Minister, in place of inexcusable negligence, I believe that we must say: "in the cases of serious negligence referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 2, 3 and 3-a, i.e. when the unfair damage was caused by malicious misconduct." I have also read the rapporteur's amendment. If there is a maliciousness that ignores that hypothesis that establishes a certain incorrect result, there is, however, responsibility. Then why limit it to inexcusable negligence? We said that Article 2 of the law speaks of the judge's malice or gross negligence. We have identified, limiting, cases of serious guilt. The Vassalli Act provided for revenge for cases of gross negligence, and the whole law spoke of inexcusable negligence. Senator Mancuso rightly spoke of impriety: and why neglect, imprudence, imprudence and non-compliance with orders and disciplines, as is provided for in any case of serious guilt, should they not be considered? My amendment therefore merely translates into concrete the cases of gross negligence that we have identified together and written down. Even the list contained in the Vassalli law was quite exhaustive; this is also mandatory. So I wonder why we should adopt a completely wrong, different formula of limitation if we justify, according to the 1968 Constitutional Court's judgment, a difference of discipline with respect to civil servants, which is through indirect action and methods of ascertaining which have their value. Mr Vice-Minister, my speech is on the subject, but it also concerns the profile of the correctness of relations with Parliament. The Buemi text in Article 4, which you are only proposing to delete today, has never been the subject of any changes and no amendments during the debate in the Commission, which lasted for a long time: even eight months because you asked for a postponement. There was sharing by all and by the Government, which never felt either to make amendments or to urge them. What does this article say? The decision given in the judgment brought against the State (...).................................................................................................... Listen to me, Deputy Minister, if the article had said that that decision was made in the judgment of reval and disciplinary proceedings I would have voted against or would have asked for its deletion: but it does not say that! We don't cheat: here we say something quite different! The article says that the decision has been made only in order to ascertain the fact. So, back to Article 2, what do you mean? If the state's sentence of condemnation established that a fact which was incontrovertible from the proceedings was wrong, i.e. it was established that it was not, this reconstruction of the fact does not depend on the assessment being made under the revenge or for the purpose of asserting responsibility. So, Mr. Deputy Minister, you have to explain to me why we simply state that the decision is only about the reconstruction of the facts. In short, we start from a judgment passed in court; the state is condemned because there is mathematical certainty, no longer questionable that in that trial the judge stated that a fact had not happened, there was no evidence of a fact and instead there was. Then we don't say that either. I am in favour of maintaining the freedom of judgment in revenge and the freedom of disciplinary judgment, but that concerns the evaluation of the subjective element and of everything else. Here we are thinking exclusively of the possibility of taking into account the determination of a fact. Then the assessment of whether or not to come back in the case of serious guilt and the existence of the subjective element and everything else is free. There is no tiedness in this statement. Finally, I would like to explain why I have tabled an amendment on the measure of revenge. I said at the beginning of my speech that according to Article 28 of the Constitution the magistrates are equal to the civil servants of the State, having transposed into our law the figure of the magistrate who comes to us from the Napoleonic model (magistrate selected for competition and with his dignity). However, it is right to introduce all differentiations such as indirect responsibility and, Mr Deputy Minister, limitation in cases of gross negligence. With the amendment to Article 5, which I referred to, 5,103, it is intended to limit them to what is indicated in Article 2 as if it were an exhaustive list. After that, like civil servants, the magistrate responds entirely. And then, of course, with an amendment I propose a correction in order to give the possibility to pay monthly (in case, this amount is paid). Mr Vice-Minister, the amount cannot be one third of the salary, as in the text approved by the Commission. The prediction of a third is wrong: it runs counter to our laws! It is not possible to provide for a withdrawal from the salary in excess of the fifth. Hence, we refer to the principle of equality between magistrates and others. Besides, I am still not told that this measure affects the independence of the magistrates. You know, Mr. Deputy Minister, that I was one of the creators of the Vassalli law and I realize the mistakes we've made. But I have also been magistrate for forty years and, having created a pool of insurances I can say that, with 200 euros a year there is the possibility to guarantee itself. I do not think that this wording leads to imbalance. The magistrate, thank God, has his dignity: the high function he carries out cannot be affected by a few hundred or thousands of euros. In fact, as well as other professionals and civil servants (who have a salary lower than that of the magistrate) have the possibility to guarantee themselves through an insurance policy, I believe that this possibility also has the magistrate. Then, at this point, let us rebuild and give him the dignity of his function through the corrections I mentioned to you, Mr. Deputy Minister. I believe that, with a minimum of mediation capacity and will to arrive at a clear law, sure that it does not leave any misunderstandings, if the Government were to agree with these solutions, we could also arrive at a unanimous vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u37	Colleagues, having regard to the timetable and also having asked us for speeches at the end of the session, I would say that I would postpone the last speech in general discussion to the afternoon. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u40	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, we write sign language, but we read 'no right'. Yes, because Italy is one of the few remaining nations at European level that has not yet given proper recognition to sign language. On the contrary, in Finland and Austria, this language is mentioned in the Basic Charters, while in Spain, Iceland and Denmark there are constitutional laws which stress its importance. In spite of data that testify to the dramatic situation, no effort is made at the Italian legislative level in the right direction. Yet, every year, about 1,500 deaf children are born in the Boots, while those who develop hearing problems from the earliest years of life are between 15,000 and 20,000. The sign language, in fact, is one of the modes of expression that allows deaf, deaf and disabled people of hearing to be an integral part of the social fabric. For this reason, in these days numerous have been and will be the demonstrations before the prefectures of all Italy by associations and bodies involved, at national or local level, so that the LIS is no longer an unknown acronym. Ignoring in our system this mode of communication means denying thousands of people a large part of their freedoms, starting from the freedom of choice of the expressive form they want to use; it means denying the effectiveness of the principle of non-discrimination, of the rights of the individual and, with them, of social, interpersonal and working relations. For a hearing disabled person looking for work, who decides to go to the cinema or who, more simply, asks for a coffee in a bar or asks for information, communication becomes an insurmountable wall. And the fact that the Ministry of Health regards, for the most part, deafness as a harmful consequence of other pathologies, that it does not update and not disclose useful data for years and does not recognize the language of signs, is really serious. So... (Senator Donno thanks in LIS language). This is the gesture that a person makes to say "thank you." Well, I would like these gestures to become of common use and that the sign language, the LIS, should be like the Italian language, recognized and therefore universal. (Senator Donno thanks again in LIS language. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u43	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address you to make a direct invitation to President Grasso. I turn to you for a fact that we believe is quite serious, indeed very serious. The Government, in modifying the anti-mafia code for the umpteenth time, using a delegation of 2010, which is repeated for correctives (usual), has submitted a legislative decree that on 1 October was assigned to the Commissions reunited 1a and 2a. Some corrective measures were simply needed: one of these was related to the anti-mafia documentation that companies have to produce when doing public works. Anti-mafia documentation to be produced by the owner and by all the persons responsible for the company and their family members. Unfortunately, the rule did not include the words "majority", so it was actually too extensive (even minor children could also be involved). It was enough, therefore, to add the word "majority" and everything would have been resolved: that was the objective. When, however, the text arrived for the opinion of the Commissions gathered we realized that there was talk of adults in reference to the subjects referred to in the specific article, but resident in the Italian State. These words were introduced, nighttime, and we do not know how and why (but we can imagine it), to limit the production of anti-mafia documentation, compared to those owners of companies that are abroad, exclusively to owners, without extending the prediction to family members. Now, leaving aside the different treatment between a company that has the owner resident abroad compared to a company whose owner lives in Italy, which would already be a violation of competition, let's realize that this is an invitation to the mafias to name their companies to the family "clean," to make him reside abroad so that no anti-mafia documentation will be requested from the mafia family. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is another gift to the mafias, along with 416-ter and everything else. But the most shameful thing (and here, Mr Grasso, I am really asking for your speech; I am sorry that you are not here) is this: that the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a unanimously - as I stress - approved an opinion by receiving these comments, recognizing that this limitation was actually excessive. We expected, therefore, that the legislative decree would transpose these observations. Well no: on 13 October the legislative decree was published as it is, so with yet another check to this Parliament that is considered absolutely null and insignificant by the Government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I presented this morning with my Group a single-line bill that provides for the abolition of six words: one simple article. There is the unanimity of the 1st and 2nd Commission, with the support of both the Presidents and the two rapporteurs, and I would ask President Grasso to immediately schedule this measure, which provides for the abolition of six words, by assigning it to the decision-making seat of the two Commissions. The question can be resolved in twenty-four hours, and the same thing can be done to the House, because the aforementioned legislative decree will enter into force on 26 November, so we have until 26 November to correct this abomination, which is a further gift to the mafias. Let's do it now, there are no excuses: there is time until November 26 and there are the tools to do it; They're in the hands of President Grasso. We gave them to him. It is now a decision-making body in the first and second Commissions. Now. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u44	Senator Crimes, it takes material time for the press and the assignment of the act; after that, of course, there is the discretion of the Presidents of the Commission for the calendarization and then the evaluation of the President for the assignment to the deliberating seat, but frankly I see no big problems with regard to such an initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-354.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.59 p.m.
