ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). I would remind you that the Minutes of the sitting on Wednesday 17 September were not approved at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 18 September. The Minutes of the sitting of Wednesday 17 September should therefore be approved before the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 18 September are read. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the sitting of Wednesday 17 September are hereby approved. The Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 18 September will be read. Mr Di Giorgi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 18 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1594 and 1595, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the joint general debate took place at yesterday's sitting. I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1594, Senator Chiavaroli. Mr Chiavaroli, rapporteur on draft law No 1594. Mr President, I give up my reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1595, Senator Del Barba. DEL BARBA, rapporteur on draft law No 1595. Mr President, I also give up my reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u5	Mr President, we are holding this debate on the 2013 financial year's statement and the provisions for the adjustment of the 2014 budget in the immediate course of the budget session for 2015-2017. In some respects, therefore, it is inevitable that the evaluation of the statement and the adjustment has been directed, as it emerged in the debate that has developed in recent hours in this House, more towards the choices we have to make in the budgetary session (i.e. in the immediate future), than towards the effects of the choices made in the most recent past which, discussing accounting and settling, should of course be the basis for our assessments. It is understandable that this has happened and that this has happened, but the Government and Parliament must know that this represents a limit, a serious limit, a serious defect in our debate on public finance and economic policy, and it is a defect that the Government and Parliament will have to commit themselves to overcoming. Indeed, the comparison on economic policy and fiscal policy is particularly affected in Italy by the almost total absence of well-founded assessments of the results of public policies in place and practiced concretely in the past. In this respect - I do not want to spread, but this is a crucial issue - the reform of the structure of the budget (as I think it is) should consist in the explicit transition to a single fund budget with the overcoming of the merely formal nature of the budget law in order to transform it into what it is in all the major European countries and that is a substantial law. As you know in Italy the budget is a formal law because, in essence, it is the summary in numerical terms of the consequences determined by what is substance, i.e. the legislation of expenditure and revenue in force. This is because our model of budgetary policy is organized around the following theme: the law comes to determine the necessity and conditions for expenditure and the necessity and conditions of entry, while the budget then formally adheres to the substantive effects determined by the existing expenditure and revenue legislation. It is clear that this is a very serious limit of the budget law. Even if it is necessary to use the work that not this Government but previous governments have done with the preparation of result indicators, we must base more on the evaluation of public policies, including those for the future, on the results achieved by the public policies implemented in the past, which must have a more precise specification in the budget law, with the necessary indicators. This whole set of measures can help us to overcome the limit I mentioned at the beginning. I would therefore also like, in order not to further contribute to fueling this limit, to restrict myself to taking up, among the many critical points that have come from the debate of these hours in this House, those which most directly refer to reporting and settling. For example, a very important point seemed to me to be the following. In our accounts, those 2013 but also those 2014, which find accommodation in the budgetary adjustment, have a very serious impact on the payments made by our country to the European stability mechanism. So much so that Senator De Pin wondered whether it is worth paying our share to the state-saving fund again or whether it is not preferable to take back some of our sovereignty. I believe that, basically, it meant: to stop paying. In the same speech, however, an expansive fiscal policy was called for. With regard to this expansionary fiscal policy, we must ask ourselves who in Europe, in fact, as well as in Italy, is able to develop an expansionary fiscal policy. The answer, in my opinion, is very simple: they can and must do, expansive budgetary policy, on the one hand, the Community institutions as such, which can make an expansive budgetary policy also based on debt because they can issue, if they want, debt securities on the credit quality of the European Union, and not on the credit quality of individual states which, as we know, is very different from State to State. Moreover, the economic systems and the nations which have a huge saving in trade balance can make an expansionary policy: they have accumulated and continue to accumulate a huge activity of trade balance, which creates the basis for being able to have expansive fiscal policies. Therefore, expansionary policies are claimed by everyone and can make them both: on the one hand, the individual nations which have a significant trade surplus (in particular Germany); on the other hand, the Community institutions. So much so that Senator Lezzi, speaking in the debate, said that it was necessary to issue eurobonds guaranteeing all sovereign debt and not just part of sovereign debt. Joking, I will say that I, instead of Senator Lezzi, would settle for much less, that is to say for having project bonds (which, as we know, are very different), issued on the Union's credit rating for a new European deal of investment in tangible and intangible infrastructure. However, if we want a European expansionary fiscal policy, to the limit of the Eurobonds that guarantee us all the debt, I do not think we can start from the demolition of the only instruments available to achieve it. If we really want it, the European Stability Mechanism, together with the European Investment Bank, is the only instrument currently present in the Community context that can enable us to develop expansionary budgetary policies, either directly or directly. A second topic of discussion, which I think is important, concerns the assessment of current expenditure trends, especially primary expenditure, in relation to gross domestic product and the years behind us. Many have pointed out the continuing phenomenon of the increase in current expenditure and have denounced in a multiannual key the emergence of a very consolidated trend over time to the reduction of capital expenditure, investment expenditure (and, in my opinion, they have done so well, while in an annual key the majority rapporteur has shown very well that, in reality, this judgment would not be based on numbers). It was mainly because of capital expenditure that, in a past that has gone back a long time, we have carried out spending reduction operations with effects on growth directly proportional to the fact that current expenditure certainly contributes to promoting the growth of the product, but investment expenditure, especially if they are the right ones, competes much more massively and intensively. However, I would like to point out to my colleagues, in particular to Senator Divina, who has focused a great deal on the point, that the 2013 and 2014 accounts, in fact, take into account a completely different phenomenon, to be emphasized (otherwise, I would not really understand on what basis we would base our debate on budgetary policy and public policies in the field of the economy and social organisation). What do the numbers tell us? Let us look at them over a multi-annual horizon, which dates back a little over time, at least to the stage preceding the great recession, the one that broke out in 2008, to understand ourselves, in which we are basically still immersed, as we have been for practically all the years that separate us from that date. Well, if we look at them in this way, those accounts clearly tell us that current primary public expenditure, net of social security expenditure - and I will say immediately why - has even been reduced in nominal terms. This was exactly the result of the expected performance of expenditure in nominal terms, from the first rule of law which was approved in 2011 in this House, on the basis of an amendment tabled by myself - which was then the senator - and made by the Berlusconi Government. The latter thus embarked on the path of the expenditure review aimed at putting even the development of future expenditure under control in nominal terms. Why does social security expenditure continue to increase, despite the very important measures taken? Basically, as you know, the only issue on which we have achieved a very profound structural reform is precisely that of welfare. Why, then, does that expenditure, despite such significant interventions developed over time, continue to increase? You all know the answer, and it is the demographic trend: the baby boomers, i.e. those who are basically my age, a little more or less, constitute an enormous generation more numerous than the previous and the next generation and above all characterized by very dynamic careers, which towards the end result in very high wages. In addition, pensions in this case are calculated entirely using the method of remuneration calculation: in 1995, in fact, the method of contribution calculation pro rata temporis was not immediately adopted, and it did not happen by chance, because then there were those who proposed to do so, but they got a negative answer. The result is that we have maintained the whole salary calculation of pensions for a very large generation, which is now retiring and which has very dynamic careers also from the point of view of wage remuneration. The result is that expenditure, despite the measures approved, continues to increase. But if you take away social security expenditure and look at the rest of public spending, you see that objectively - and I say this against my interests, as they say in Genoa, because my political interest would be to say that the governments that preceded us have only combined disasters, even on this point, but that is not true - even with the Berlusconi Government, from the point of view of control and reduction of expenditure, important results have been obtained, which have been consolidated by successive governments. The real problem, however, on which we must now focus, is that the method used to achieve those results is what Senator Divine has said, who asked whether or not we will make the linear cuts of 3%. The answer is that we will not do them and not because we do not want to achieve, in 2015, a saving of between 16 and 20 billion euros and, in 2016, a saving of between 30 and 32 billion euros, thanks to the revision of the expenditure, but for a more precise reason, that is that we do not want to achieve this result through the linear cuts (without wanting to demonize the linear cuts). The reason is very simple: what could have been achieved through the mechanism of linear reduction of expenditure has already been achieved: from now on, operations have to be carried out that reduce expenditure, not through the method of linear cut, but through selective interventions, which by definition involve greater assumption of political responsibility - since it will have to be explained why on the one hand it cuts and on the other it does not - and reform activities of the entire public administration. From this point of view - assessed the result obtained over these years and difficult to deny, about the trend of the primary current expenditure, net of the social security one, which has been reduced thanks to the linear cuts - what we are facing is much more challenging than what we have done in the recent past, because - I repeat - it is a matter of overcoming an operation that is relatively easy but that has the very serious defect of penalising the best administrations, that have already begun to do the operations of revision of the expenditure, and of rewarding the worst administrations, that is those that in recent years have continued to spend, without a precise reference to an evaluation of the results in relation to the costs. This is what we have done in the past: whether it has been good or bad, it is what we have done. It is now a question of completely changing the approach and that is what we have begun to do with the last governments. We have received the technical and analytical proposals of the Commissioners for the revision of expenditure, of Commissioner Enrico Bondi, during the Monti Government, and then, but now it is a question of moving on to operations to which to link a saving that, thanks also to the time that the Renzi Government claims to have in front of them, has a broader scope of reform. There is an important point on this point for the debate that we have to face. We must ask ourselves whether these savings, due to the revision of expenditure, are all achievable. It seems to me to be a matter of crucial importance, even though I understand that it is filled with technicalities that make it seem obscure. The question, in fact, is simple: the revision of the expenditure that lies before us, in addition to the one that we have already partly set, can be done with the mechanism that operates from top to bottom, that is, with the legislative innovation, for which a law is changed and savings are obtained, or is it an operation that involves, in the coming years together with the legislative activity, that is, the mechanism from top to bottom, and a systematic administrative implementation activity that must succeed in accompanying the legislative innovation obtaining savings results? My opinion is that if you claim, as I fear, to work exclusively on the legislative side, the results we expect (a saving point in 2015 and a second saving point in 2016) will not be achieved. High administration must accompany legislation and the examples of Sweden, Australia and Canada, three countries that have carried out expenditure reviews with impressive results, tell us that at least half of the results have been achieved after legislative innovation, which occurred upstream, through the administrative implementation of those choices. The question is obvious: why is the matter relevant? Should the part of savings achieved through administrative activity be received at the budgetary session under existing legislation rather than under the law of stability? My answer is yes. The law of stability is designed to contain the necessary legislative innovations, but if we have said that much of the expenditure review has to come from administrative activity, the problem is: how is it written, by receiving the results of this activity, the budget from existing legislation? We are even accustomed to identifying the budgetary session with the law of stability, but if what I am supporting has a minimum of foundation and can be taken into consideration, then we must know that the attention moves quickly and radically towards the budgetary law, which, in my opinion, must transpose from the start, on the initiative of the Government, and even more so through Parliament's demands on this point, that administrative activity aimed at saving, of which we have never had confidence in Italy because we have always entrusted savings to the determination of the consequences of the law. Mr President, perhaps at this point I can use the time of the rapporteurs, who very generously allowed me to have a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We had no doubt! Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Thank you, Mr President. For now I have dealt with a little more general issues and I would like to answer a few specific questions. The first question that has been asked by many senators, of majority and opposition, to which Senator Lanzillotta also referred in terms that I share, is why the appropriations remaining will continue to grow. It is a paradoxical effect, in my opinion, of the legislative measures which have reduced the time limits for the maintenance of appropriations in the budget, all of which are followed by specific measures, always by force of law, to re-enter them into the budget from which they were cancelled. In 2013, the increase in waste, which amounts to more than 7 billion, was due to capital expenditure and, in particular, to the Development and Cohesion Fund (approximately 4 billion) and the Public Administration's Finance Facility (2 billion). In essence, if we want to learn a lesson in general terms, what emerges is that, despite the efforts made, the disposal capacity of perent residues on the basis of the standards approved to keep them in the budget of less, residues increased precisely because of the approval of these standards, is lower than the rate at which the residues are formed. It seems that for the umpteenth time there is a problem of the relationship between the legislative activity and the administrative activity. It seems that the administration, accustomed to maintaining resources in the budget for a very long time, reacts to policy decisions to reduce the budgeting of the sums through an administrative activity that postpones its actual commitment. I think we must act here by reconciling politics and administration. Many senators then focused, in particular Senator Comaroli, on the judgment of the Court of Auditors on the occasion of equalization. In essence, the Court of Auditors highlights the very serious and very important phenomenon of the so-called surplus expenditure. Please believe, Senator, it's not your first year. I could manage by saying that this is an operation that concerns the 2013 report (I wasn't there, I was at a farmhouse, as they say in my own area, and therefore I shouldn't take care of it) but, unfortunately, the phenomenon is very serious, dating back to the time and it is - this is serious - even tending to worsen. At the basis of this phenomenon, Senator, there is a perverse link between the mandatory nature of these expenses (if you go to see, they are all strictly compulsory expenditures: salaries, social charges that must be paid for employees and at all costs, and that therefore can not be done, concretely) and the decentralisation of payment systems in the different administrations, not necessarily the peripheral ones, even the central ones, so that the indifferentity and the obligatoryness of the expenditure pushes the administrations to carry it out because it is true that it is mandatory and indifferent even if the budget is not enough to accommodate it. This is because in Italy the budget is formal law and the substantive law is the one that disposes the expenditure; the law says that you have to pay the employees and therefore, even if there is no money, in the budget fund you pay the same. The result in terms of accounting is that the surplus of expenditure is revealed, to things done, because of course that emerges from things done. How can this problem be remedied? We have to make a serious commitment. As little as I can, the Government makes a serious commitment in the budget to existing legislation to consider the nature and characteristics of these surplus expenditures. Government and Parliament must agree: if they maintain that law which determines expenditure, which then gives rise to the surplus because there is no budget, then they must update the budget. Otherwise, if they do not want to update the budget, they must change the existing legislation, that is, the one that actually determines the expenditure. One of these two avenues must be practiced, otherwise the phenomenon of surplus spending instead of shrinking will continue to increase. This is a serious problem because it is as if the decision-maker were deprived of the possibility of deciding because of the fact that then things go as they should regardless of the decisions that are taken, first by the government and then by Parliament. I think that from this point of view, an evolution of the structure of the budget from a budget as a formal law to a substantial budget law, towards a cash-only budget or at least an economic competence, the idea of giving a stronger connotation, more significant to the multi-annual nature of the budget law are all factors that can help to reduce the presence of this negative phenomenon. Finally, I want to touch on one last subject because they have dealt with it in so many (or rather, they have exected it in so many): the reasons for such a strong increase in the maximum limit of public debt issues, which passes into the budget of 59 billion, where it stood, to 99 billion, so with an increase of 40 billion that is certainly very significant. I would point out to the senators - of course they know this, but it is always better to clarify things - that it could not be otherwise, because the adjustment in this regard only transposes a provision of law: never could the adjustment have led to an increase in the maximum limit for the use of the market if that increase had not already been determined by a law. In fact an approved measure (I refer to article 50, paragraph 7, of Decree-Law 24 April 2014, n. 66, which is - to mean us - the so-called 80 euro decree) - so you have the substantive reference and not the numerical one - has determined the choice of the increase of the limit for the recourse to the market, that of course is a limit, not a figure that we must already consider perfectly achieved through the issuance of public debt securities. What determined this decision? The rapporteurs basically said so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr. Deputy Minister, I remind you, we're 30 minutes away. I invite you to conclude. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'm done. 50% of the payments made by non-paying public administration arrears and 50% (i.e. EUR 20 billion) of the deterioration in the needs of which - unfortunately - we have been given early notice and knowledge in the DEF that we discussed in May and June. Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u6	It has taken up some time for the rapporteurs who, moreover, have given up their speaking time. I would like to say that, since the final vote on the two measures before our examination will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the articles of the statement has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u7	On the agenda of the G100, precisely because it is very topical and because it sees the Government already committed, I express a favourable opinion, provided that the device is changed by replacing the diction I am against the G101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u8	I am in agreement with the rapporteur on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u9	I would ask Senator Comaroli if he agrees to amend the G100 agenda as proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u10	I accept the proposal to amend the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u11	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the other hand, as regards the G101 agenda, Senator Comaroli, do you insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u12	I insist, Mr President, and ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u13	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G101 agenda presented by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We proceed to the examination of the articles of the bill no. 1595. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u14	On Amendment No 1.Tab.8.1 I am against, while on the agenda I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u15	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u18	MARINELLO (NCD). I withdraw amendment 1.Tab.8.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u19	We take note of that. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 with the annexed tables. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1, with the annexed tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This led to the conclusion of the examination of the articles of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u22	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will be very brief, but I think it is worth pointing out some essential issues, also in the light of the replies of the Deputy Minister and the rapporteurs, also because, reading the cold data and the figures reported mainly in the accounts and in part also in the adjustment, it is clear that there are many shadows, there is also some light, and the true fact that we have come to it is that we have basically tried to curb the negative elements and the fall of the economic system. Of course, the hope is that we can reverse the course with the next law of stability. Having said that, and given the clarifications that have been given, I would like to focus mainly on the challenges ahead of us in the coming months. For this reason I would like to draw the attention of the Government, with an action of responsibility also on the part of Parliament, especially on the control and containment of public expenditure, on the revival of investment, simplifications, on the choices that will be made in the field of labour policy and, therefore, on the so-called structural reforms on which - as we have always said as the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - we believe that all attention should be focused. Above all, the search for the approximately 20 billion that will be needed for the next law of stability will be crucial. From this point of view we trust in the cuts to the unproductive expenses of the Ministries, cuts that, however, must not be linear, as has been pointed out by several senators, but selective, in order to affect only the situations of waste and inefficiency. In our view, the redevelopment of expenditure must also be accompanied by actions aimed at simplifying the whole bureaucratic apparatus. This will certainly benefit in terms of growth, not only citizens and families, but above all businesses. In this regard, we believe that the proposals put forward so far by the Government and those planned are a good path; however, these too will have to be integrated, if we are to aim for a state that is actually more efficient and effective at the service of the community. Of course, we trust that the so-called 80 euro bonus will be confirmed, as we read recently in the various newspapers, and that, if possible, in terms of IRAP, the serious ones will be extended to work and businesses that we consider essential to make the economic and productive system more competitive. In our view, the review of the tax system and the reduction of current expenditure are also a priority, but also a serious reform of work, issues on which we are working these days. Let us say this precisely because it is right to activate policies of greater flexibility, inspired by the so-called flexicurity policy, that is, accompanying them also with a system of protection and guarantees that we consider essential, given the good results that have been found in some countries of Northern Europe. It will be crucial to attract public and private investment and the indication that it comes to us from the ECB and from Europe in general is that the sharp contraction in investment can find a solution. On this we trust in the work of the President-in-Office of the Council with a view to the next European Council in October, which we believe is strategic also to bring to completion the European Semester of the Italian Presidency, which, in our opinion, will be the last great opportunity to review, redefine and renegotiate some of the commitments we have made in the European context. As I have just said, this will be a great opportunity because this is an economic crisis which, if it is true that it hits Italy strongly, also affects other European countries, because growth is weak throughout Europe. The figures from Germany yesterday, for example, perhaps also reflect Chancellor Merkel and other Heads of State. From this point we therefore believe that it is essential that, even in Europe, we realize that today the real emergency, not only in Italy, but throughout Europe, is work. From this point of view, I think it is perhaps worth having the courage, even within a general framework that must be maintained, to go to renegotiate or recalibrate some commitments to promote recovery. Having said that, I merely announce that the Autonomous Group has voted in favour of both draft laws that we are dealing with in a joint way. Our vote, I repeat, will be in favour and we trust above all in the Note of Update to the DEF and in the law of stability so that they can be, let's say, a good road for a 2015 that remains, of course, a year on which there are many expectations, but also a lot of anxiety. We ask everyone to play their part in this because we hope that it will be the year that can actually and finally reverse the course to get out of this recession in which we are today. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u25	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we wish to express our negative vote on these measures, both on the accounts and on the adjustment, but above all we want to express our concern that is linked to a very simple analysis: on the one hand there are numbers, those of the accounts and those of the adjustment, which tell us that the accounts of the State are now out of control, are in a dangerous and dramatic situation, and on the other we listen to the statements of the representatives of the majority, of the Government and of the President of the Council who say exactly the opposite. No more than a few days ago we listened to a President of the Council who came to tell us what he will do in the next thousand days. In fact, in his long speech, he forgot to say what he would do and simply glorified himself for what he did in his first hundred days. He has repeatedly expressed a position from which there was an absolutely unjustified optimism. He says that the crisis is coming to an end, that we are coming out of it, that we have stopped the decline. Well: from the accounts that we have examined there is an opposite situation, diametrically opposed, and very dangerous and worrying: the GDP of 2013, and therefore a real figure, the one to report the accounts of the state, turns out negative, to 0.4%, and I remember that in recent times various Governments had announced the recovery, saying that in 2012 things would change, then in 2013 and 2014, while now we record negative data for the present and for the future despite the forecasts have always been unnecessarily optimistic. In addition to GDP falling by 0.4%, there is a negative current balance, both due to the decrease in revenue (despite the absolute value of public taxes increases, revenue decreases because you are no longer able to pay them and these taxes cause the closure of activities) and due to the constant increase in current expenditure. A short circuit has therefore been created, and no one is aware of it and no one is able to remedy it. The current expenditure of 2013 increases by 0.6 percent - other than spending review - always announced and never realized, there is a public debt in sharp increase. In this regard, compared to 2012, we have reached a debt-to-GDP ratio of 132.6 percent, a figure never so high in the history of the Italian Republic that seems destined to increase more and more. There is a surplus of expenditure for staff that is increasing. So all the data tells us that we are on a very dangerous slope and that, apart from the proclamations, declarations and international visits, our President-in-Office of the Council is not dealing with the real problems. He is not dealing with it in Italy, in Rome where he should be constantly present to devote himself exclusively to his country, without trying to find consensus around the world and without preaching, which is the best thing he can do: preaching and telling lies without facing problems. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] All the measures taken so far have gone exclusively in one direction: the increase in public expenditure. Because the 80 euro increase in favour of certain categories of workers (not for everyone and then we will see how many will actually collect those 80 euros) is an increase in public expenditure. The possible stabilization of teachers is an increase in public expenditure. It is not clear why, on the one hand, it calls for less guarantees for employees in the private sector with the new maneuvers it wants to take, effectively erasing work indefinitely as a guarantee for the private sector; on the other hand, it increases the number of civil servants who are timeless in the public. This is an attitude that seems schizophrenic and inconsistent. Regarding the increase in public spending without the famous spending review: we have been waiting for it for years, but it is not yet ready and why isn't it? Because even this President-in-Office of the Council - perhaps more than others - does not want to lose consensus, of which he is a slave, and knows that a serious spending review, a reduction in public spending would also mean losing consensus on the part of those who live in it, of those who have survived in the past years and have been able to live and thrive thanks to public spending. Well, Renzi doesn't want to lose consent. This is his priority, so he only sends empty messages, without concrete results, and does not want to face the real problems of the country. We are concerned about what the successive governments have done in recent years: on the one hand, I remember the famous Government of Technicians who, in the first phase, married the line of increasing taxes; on the other hand, the new political governments of the center-left have increased public spending. These are two equally wrong paths that are leading to the destruction of the economic fabric of our country and, in particular, of the North, where we live not of public wages, but of concrete work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and where more and more people are forced to shut down their business, to leave their employees at home; they are forced to live as long as they are provided, and to constantly seek jobs that are not found. And this happens not because the ability to work of our people has failed, but exclusively because the State is voracious and has no intention of reducing its costs and, in order to survive and keep itself without filing, limiting, reducing and cutting, is willing to ask for more and more resources and to make desert in the context of what has been one of the most important productive fabrics in the world, now in continuous decline. The numbers say so and lead everyone in the direction of failures, closures and unemployment. In the face of this situation, there is a blind and irresponsible attitude. The only way forward would be to reduce the tax burden. We have reached the paradox that, in recent times, successive governments have increased the tax burden, reaching such a high limit that, in the face of the increase, there is a reduction in revenues. But why? It is clear that the pressure is so high that it involves the closure of activities and not an increase in revenue for the state's coffers. We have now reached this limit, which has been crossed and is getting worse and worse. But the state is blind and deaf in the face of this reality. He does nothing to limit the inexorable decline. We, therefore, manifest all our concern for this attitude and anger to see that the choices of the government go in the wrong direction. Reading - for example - the 2013 statement we realize that, within 550 million of the reserve fund (a heritage that had to be made available to deal with emergencies), the Government has drawn resources almost exclusively to finance the Mare nostrum project. Hundreds of millions have been spent in 2013, drawn from the reserve fund, for policies - it is written in black and white in the documentation you have provided - of immigration, reception and guarantee of security rights and control of the seas, ports and coasts. Other than public order and security! It's about the policies of our country's invasion. Then there is another voice: the preparation and use of the naval forces to defend and security the territory. But what a defense and security of the territory! Reserve funds were used to increase expenditure. Faced with the senseless maneuver against Russia of embarrassments, which ultimately penalise our economy even more, we manifest our complete opposition to the economic policies of this Government. We hope that sooner or later our people will rebel against what is happening and understand that the real enemy is the State, which will destroy our economy, our families, our work and our future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u28	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I should like to make a few very brief comments. The general account of the State administration represents what has been done in terms of expenditure. The only thing we can verify - this is one of the reasons why we will vote against - is that we continue to have an absolutely rigid spending dimension, which serves exclusively to maintain a state of things unchanged and leaves little room for it, indeed it does not find room to achieve a good combination of public and private investment destined for growth. The adjustment of the budget of the State and the budgets of the autonomous administrations, as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has just explained, is an almost obligatory measure, which takes note of some modifications, always in this very rigid scenario of public spending. This is also due to the verification of expenditure surpluses, which had to be met in the course of the year. My thoughts are related to the rigidity of our spending. We have an existing dimension in terms of apparatus, but also in terms of spending objectives, which is strongly rooted and does not allow the search for spaces of availability of resources to be allocated in support of economic activity and the revival of the country. At the same time I recall the events of the last law of stability and the battle carried out by the Mixed Left Ecology and Freedom Group, for example, to find resources to be allocated to the reorganization of the territory and to prevent the damage caused by the breakdown of our territory, especially the hydrogeological one, which in several circumstances, during the year, has made us mourn victims and accumulate expenses to remedy serious damage. We are told that there are no resources. While we were discussing that bill of stability, Sardinia was struck by a truly tragic natural disaster, also with respect to the consequences that have suffered so many families and with respect to the mourning that natural disaster has caused. Mr President, if we look at what has been allocated and what has been transferred to the Region of Sardinia in relation to that affair, we will find that nothing has been done. When I say zero, I mean zero! In the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies the text of a draft law which began with the Senate with the signature of all the parliamentary groups, where some small and lukewarm measures were envisaged compared to those adopted for other parts of Italy; however, that measure did not follow, resulting in a morally heavy offense, which weighs on the inertia of government activity in support of those territories. It's worth saying we're not getting out of this. Inventions, inter alia, in the field of work, are not enough. Only the self-harm of our country can suggest that active labour policies can be made by setting up national employment agencies. I am in itself the contradiction of what is needed! Labour policies must take account of the diversity of unemployment. There is talk of unemployment and the plural unemployed because the characteristics of each of those unemployments and each of those unemployed are different. Different is the prepared subject, educated, who has the PhD that for a period is without work, from those who are dequalified, has no qualification and lives in a degraded area of the country, in an urban center or in a countryside. There are several unemployed, there are different unemployments, there must be different interventions. It is not enough to write that you quit more easily and hire more easily. And shouldn't the company teach the development of a certain economy in the most industrialized countries in the world? It's not just the enterprise that creates jobs. Many times it is the work, the competence, the ability to imagine, organize and invent that produces enterprise and, therefore, work. It would be enough to think what development the new economy had. Instead, we create an organism of bureaucrats, we place it in the centre of Rome and we think in this way to govern the processes or to help those who have the opportunity to experiment in the field of the economy, entrepreneurial initiatives. What are we talking about? They're ramblings, messy solutions, propaganda stuff, some tweets. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]] That is why, Mr President, it is the experience gained in examining the draft stability law and why these acts are the certification of that failure, which we will vote against. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u31	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, the evaluation of the New Centre Group on the 2013 financial year and the 2014 financial statements is prudently favourable. I use the word "prudently" because despite the data (at least most of them) are still negative and although we are going through one of the darkest moments of our country's social life, the profit and loss account still shows good control over the public accounts and the deficit remains in the parameters required by the European Union confirming the exit from the infringement procedures for excessive deficits. However, two important considerations emerge from the reports of the rapporteurs and the Deputy Minister. The first is that the demand for sacrifices to Italian citizens has now reached the point of saturation and the second is that taxation must necessarily (especially on companies, as well as on families) contract and decrease. In my opinion, we've done something important. We have done so much; I do not know if we have done everything we have to do to keep under control especially the public debt that is the one that oppresses us most. We all know how our performance is severely penalized by interest expenditure due to excessively high public debt. On the other hand, some of the expenditure in the budget is absolutely incompressible because it concerns the salaries of public administration staff despite the ban on recruitment of the last few years. The last warning, the most important, is that this Government will continue to work for a greater knowledge of the quality of expenditure, so that we can move towards a reduction in the areas where it is most inefficient and is a cause of waste. What needs to be done, and what we all want, is to work on development, in order to create the conditions for a recovery, in order to increase gross domestic product and tax revenues, not by increasing tax rates and taxation, but by relaunching our economic activities. It is good, in fact, to remember that in this country the tax revenues came from the economic activities that this country was able to produce. We all work for these activities to be resumed also by facilitating foreign investors. And in this context, I would like to remind you that other Members have already pointed out the need to facilitate investments in infrastructure, large networks, energy and transport, which are the real driving force of development for businesses and for our own country. In recent years I do not know whether all that was possible and necessary has been done, but our hope is that the sacrifices we have asked our fellow citizens will be paid in some way. For these reasons, and above all with a great sense of responsibility, the Group of the New Right Centro gives its vote, clearly and without aut aut daily. Our support for the government has been and will always be loyal. And we will continue to act in this way, convinced that we are a stimulus and a positive participant in government action. This clarity and this responsibility the New Right Center has always demonstrated and reconfirmed it today, voting account and settling and reminding everyone that the 2013 statement is the account of a difficult year, in a difficult context, characterized by the economic recession, cuts and emergencies on the territory that have required further efforts that this Government has not denied. The hope is that the sacrifices we have submitted to our fellow citizens are not in vain and that our young people, our children, may continue to live and work in their Italy. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u34	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, again this year we are examining the draft law relating to the general state statement for the year 2013 and the draft law on the adjustment of the state budget and the budgets of the autonomous administrations. As regards the draft law on the general statement, the following emerges: The closure of the excessive decifit procedure for our country is an essential result in the definition of budgetary policy followed in 2013, which in the launch of some important measures aimed at boosting growth and supporting the incomes of families has been able to benefit from a climate of relative confidence. I repeat: only a climate of relative confidence. In fact, Italian families cannot place in a government like yours that a relative trust, certainly not absolute. How to put trust in a Premier capable of mocking the citizens and able to say that reforms are a moral obligation, necessary for our children, failing to say that his reforms do nothing but take away power from the citizens to transfer it to a political class that continues to be investigated, put to trial, discovered with its hands in the bag. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I take this opportunity to point out to the citizens who listen to us that, if we had not been in these classrooms, probably the magicians would not have come out: at the moment we are content, but in the near future, in addition to this, we will also do the reforms, but those that our country needs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Those in charge of the government should simply get to work to restart the economy, not with words, but with deeds. A key figure that we find in the statement is the difference of 2.3 billion between 212 billion and 251 million revenue for indirect taxes in 2013 and 215 billion and 133 million received in 2012. In essence, the State has collected less VAT for 2.3 billion, because thousands of companies have closed and relocated, pay taxes elsewhere, help the economy of countries in which it is possible to support, work, invest and earn, as well as pay taxes at reasonable rates, so to speak. In simple terms, the increase in the VAT rate by two percentage points over three years, instead of increasing revenue, has reduced it by 2.3 billion. We could also assume that the contraction in consumption is due to the increase in tax evasion due to the failure to issue receipts or other tax documents. Perhaps you should question Minister Padoan about how he would like to combat the phenomenon of tax evasion, which kills honest entrepreneurs. Honestly, to date, we have not heard any proposals in all the measures of which he is the first signatory. We would like all Italians, eager for some reassurance that our country is not close to the disaster, to understand the real, real situation. In fact, it is nothing more than the faded old picture inherited from Renzi's de cuius: it defines even worse the contours of net debt, nominal GDP and debt-to-GDP ratio. Unfortunately, both the consolidated income statement and the State account record the same data for 2013: net debt of less than 47 billion; GDP of 1.567 billion (or 1.618.9 if we consider the estimates updated in September); debt-to-GDP ratio of 132.6 percent (127,9 according to the figures updated in September). Unfortunately, we believe that, despite the accounting magic that makes GDP rise, due to the inclusion of illegal activities (such as drugs, prostitution and counterfeiting), nothing has been done to prevent one in three companies from closing, because the state does not pay the debts. On the occasion of the 2014 law of stability, we said that the damage would be many, but, due to television and the regime press, the truths unfortunately remained hidden. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Fortunately, someone still listens to us and, like it or not, those who have listened to us are certainly worthy of greater consideration: yes, that consideration which this Government does not recognize to the supreme controller, impartial and third, of public activity and the use of its resources, better known as the Court of Auditors, to which we will also agree today. In addition, the Court of Auditors did not spare itself from making precise and precise observations in its judgment on the regularity of the general accounts of the State for the financial year. On this point, for example, it should be pointed out that it stated that the deficit-GDP ratio would be 2.8%, thus decreasing compared to 2012, without the effect of derivative finance operations, swaps on derivatives, which affected the 2013 deficit by as much as EUR 3.2 billion. Even in 2012 the same type of transaction, with the early closure of one of these contracts, had involved the disbursement of 2.6 billion euros: it is like saying that, despite the strong indebtedness, the State has also allowed itself to resort to risky and unexpected transactions, which, as shown by the data of the last two years, have led to a worsening of the deficit-GDP balance. Despite their lawful use, such derivative financial instruments do not have sufficient transparency, as would be necessary, because of their impact on the accounts, in particular on the public debt. So what does the government do? So, what does the government do? It burns the sacrifices of citizens with risky operations such as these, without ensuring effective control over the management and content of these instruments. This is also the view of the Court of Auditors, which used the same literal wording in the judgment of equalisation on the general accounts of the State, and which reiterates a certain concern in the use of these instruments. This government, unfortunately, asks the Italians sacrifices on sacrifices, without offering any recipe to get out of this crisis, which oppresses our economy, without taking into account the fact that in our country social inequalities are growing out of proportion, as happened in the United States, in which the average income is lower than twenty-five years ago. Public debt amounts to approximately €2,000 billion, interest on debt at €82 billion, the cost of public expenditure at €800 billion, the start-up of loans at €264 billion: with a situation like this, it would have been necessary for several years already to put a hand on waste, in order to provide for a serious reduction of public debt and, consequently, a reduction of interest expenditure on debt, also to give a boost to investments, which today are almost dry, also thanks to the usual known that the contracts are awarded with bribes to the right and to the lack: it is useless to remember the cases of the MOSE and the Expo. These should have been the priorities of this Commission, which also ignores Commissioner Cottarelli, who repeats as a mantra that he does the analysis of waste, but the government must make the political choices... I am sorry, Mr President, having difficulty speaking, I would ask that the remainder of my speech be given in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u35	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u38	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are in the process of approving an important act in the life of the country, the government and this Parliament, so I hope to be as brief as possible, even within the limits of the complexity of the text that we are considering. I note that the recent new GDP accounts allow us to take into account activities that have never been considered before for the formation of GDP, such as accounting for areas that we consider extraordinary, such as prostitution and drug trafficking. This is an indication that the European Union has given to all the Member States, and today this gives us an even more respectful reading of the parameters to which our public accounts must refer. By translating it, for all of us, thanks to the inclusion in the accounting of GDP in these sectors, we are now able to achieve compliance with those parameters. However, a not only accounting or accounting view of the state budget and, more generally, of the public administrations, gives us a reading that is far from consolatory of their real development. The essential indicator of the state budget, i.e. the net balance to be financed, shows a significant deterioration compared to the 2012 figure, positive for about 10 billion, and passes into the territory negative for about 28 billion, with a loss of resources of almost three points of GDP. I do not believe that it can be attributed solely to resources to facilitate the release of public administration payments, resources which in 2013 mobilized just under EUR 18 billion. It is, in our opinion, a ruinous fall, even net of the accounting regulations, which seems to continue in the first months of this year, since the adjustment shows a worsening of this indicator, for an additional about 4 billion. The bad performance of the state budget is also evidenced by the balance of current transactions, the public saving, which makes a significant reduction: we save less and we lose about 18 billion compared to last year's figure, from about 65 billion to about 45 billion. And again, from the primary surplus, another essential element for the control of the performance of the accounts and above all of the sustainability of the debt, that in the final accounts of 2013 appears halved compared to the data of 2012 and that in the first three months of this year it is even reduced of ulterior 3 billion! It would be enough, Mr President, for these few figures to point to sudden management of the state budget, in our opinion, despite factors which seem to play a positive role, such as the reduction of interest expenditure, which, however, we all agree, is closely associated with the development of international markets and certainly not with the actions of the Government, while it is attributable to the activity of the Executive that significant increase in current expenditure net of interest: an increase that goes beyond 4% in 2013 and is due almost completely to a new surge in the combated intermediate consumption. Increase that is confirmed in these first six months of the current year. In recent years on the purchase of goods and services of the public administration much road has been made, in an attempt to centralize and bring order in an expense that was dispersed in thousand rivoli. As you can see, no results have yet been achieved. It is a trend, that of the state budget, which pairs with the more general one of public revenue and expenditure, in which current expenditure, as the Court of Auditors had already pointed out, after a two-year reduction (for two years current expenditures have decreased), shows an increase of 1.3% compared to 2012. So, all the rhetoric of austerity and sacrifice? And the continuous reference to an improbable season of careful spending review? Spending review that now seems more and more like a mirror for the lark, a somewhat rhetorical appeal to a problem that is indicated but that always remains there, the solution that is hoped for, but never followed! Suffice it to see what happened to Cottarelli, the commissioner at the spending review, and the hypothesis - immediately returned, for Christ's sake! - the selective cut of 3% that each administration should have supported, which would have been nothing more than the much-vaunted linear cut by our excellent Minister Tremonti: the only way through which in the past years public spending has been reduced. Moreover, the difficulty in managing the total budget of the public administration is also evidenced by the development of capital expenditure, which continues in the decreasing trend of recent years. The further contraction of investment expenditure by about 13 percent compared to 2012 brings these expenditures to about 5 percent of the total. Today I would like to remind Deputy Minister Morando how, when he was Head of the Democratic Party in the Budget Committee in previous years, he complained when, in 2008, capital expenditure amounted to about 8%. I dare not imagine what you think today, since they have further reduced to 5%. And those are resources destined to those investments that we all continue to see as an essential condition for our national product to resume a virtuous path of growth. Yes, because the increase is not fixed investments - although in the first part of this year there seems to be a faint hope of reversing the trend - but categories of expenditure such as the acquisition of financial assets, which include, for example, the fund to ensure the necessary liquidity to the territorial authorities for the payment of past debts. And let's go back to the matter of late payment of public debt. Vicenda, moreover, that does not yet seem to produce definitive results, and especially those hoped for. The data released by the Ministry of Economy at the end of July are explicit: the resources made available to the debtor institutions amount to 30 billion, 63 percent of the appropriation for 2013, and the debts actually paid to the creditors are equal to 26 billion. In the report, the Commission says it has failed to take into account the effects of the 2014 Competitiveness Decree, which contained an important authorisation: the issuance of government bonds to raise that liquidity of up to 40 billion. I wonder, therefore, whether or not you note this authorization in order to respect the programmatic balances? Can we consider the value of recourse to the market that sees an improvement of more than 10 billion? We'll have to wait until the end of the exercise to know what's really going on. That being the case, the payment of the PA's debts seems to be a far from settled issue. Yet St. Matthew has already passed! And, as they say, "passed the feast, robbed the saint" with good peace of Matteo Renzi and Bruno Vespa, who had so much announced it from the headquarters of the most important television political transmission. I come to the part in my opinion more painful, because on the revenue side there are several clear critical issues. In fact, the increase of 10 billion in the survey should not be read as immediately positive. It virtually stops tax revenues - certainly, because of the crisis and recession that the economy is going through and reduces the contribution space - this increase is largely attributable to an increase in extra-tributary revenues, i.e. those relating to the proceeds of the assets of the State sold and to the operating profits of public enterprises, and in part to those of the assets. 11:01 a.m. (Follows BONFRISCO). And if this really is the case, can we believe that the tax burden has decreased or has a tendency to decrease? It seems to me that it is not, and it seems to me that in the central-left governments there is always in vogue an ancient theory of public finance, according to which an increase in taxes would cause a more than proportional increase in revenue. We, on the other hand, think the opposite, and we remain convinced of the much more concrete idea that, beyond a certain level, an increase in rates reduces revenue, because it has a negative effect on the whole economy. This is what has happened in recent years. It is enough to think - just to remind all of us - of the excessive increases, as well as the way in which we increase, the rates in the field of buildings, VAT, excise duties and financial pensions. I say this to Senator Mancuso, who preceded me, who shares the same concern with me. I therefore put forward an issue which was already highlighted at the time of the Letta Government, following yet another increase in rates, by a great economist, not by me, whom I would like to quote, Madam President, at the end of my speech. If revenue has increased and GDP has decreased, this means that the sums paid by taxpayers have increased, while their income, their turnover, their capital values have fallen. And that implies that rates must be increased, but mathematics is not an opinion. And if the revenue is equal to the tax rate multiplied by the taxable amount, in the taxpayer's accounts, when the amount to be paid to the tax authorities increases although the taxable amount has decreased, the tax rate of the various taxable persons must be increased, i.e. the tax rate of the taxpayer in relation to its income, i.e. its tax burden on the income achieved during the year. The government, therefore, doubles its error, both because of the tax burden from the point of view of the treasury that produces less revenue and because of that from the point of view of the taxpayer, which is being impoverished more and more. This Government, Madam President, continues to make a mistake and the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura in Senato can only vote against this Government, in defence of the Italians and their interests, which are not included in the statement and in the budget that we are going to approve. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u41	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state accounts for 2013 and the budgetary adjustment for 2014 is an opportunity to take stock of the state of our public accounts and the actions to be taken in the near future. The photograph that gives us the two documents as a whole represents the path of substantial consolidation and keeping public accounts, despite the continuing economic crisis that has invested and still invests our country today. In this context, we cannot underestimate the criticalities affecting and conditioning the consolidation of public finances, in particular on the part of the debt ratio and on the side of the failure to increase production, slowing down, on the one hand, the path of reduction of interest expenditure on public debt securities and, on the other hand, the development of tax revenues, also in relation to the size of current expenditure. But it would be reductive on our part not to highlight the progress and potential demonstrated by our country in the last period. On the deficit side, the decrease from 4.5% in 2010 to 3% in 2012 cannot be excluded: this was confirmed in 2013 and is estimated to be decreasing in the coming years. This deficit reduction path allowed us to exit the excessive deficit procedure at the end of May 2013. As regards the primary surplus (another fundamental figure of public finance), Italy achieved the best balance of the euro area together with Germany. It's data that tells us that Italy can do it. We do not say this because we are required to defend the government's office, but because we know well the potential of our country and our productive base, which, if helped by the structural reforms that have been put in place by the government in these months, is able to compete head-to-head with the best developed economies in Europe and in the world. It is a trust that also rests on what the markets tell us with the decrease of spread. This is also evidence of the fact that in recent years our country has been able to make progress, in particular on the side of the containment of expenditure. But that is not enough and we are the first to be aware of it. In 2014 the performance of the public accounts is and will be conditioned negatively by the performance of the economy. The 2014 DEF assumed GDP growth of 0.8% and net debt of 2.6%: data to be reviewed in the discussion of the Update Note to the DEF, against which the necessary corrections to confirm, not only the holding of public accounts, but the possible support actions for the national economy will have to be identified. The bill of balance-sheet settlement reflects this contrasted development of the country's economy, which, in fact, also has a reflection on the balances settled in the state budget. The net balance to be financed worsens slightly compared to the initial forecasts, while improving, albeit slightly, the public savings and the use of the market. In any case, the balances fall - and it is right to stress it - within the maximum limits established by the Stability Act of 2014. Tax revenue, mainly due to the fall in tax revenue, which is linked to the development of the economy worse than the initial forecasts, decreases compared to the initial forecasts. Consumption expenditure is higher than forecast, but it is more than offset by the reduction in interest expenditure. One positive fact is the increase in investment expenditure, which is a driving force for economic recovery due to its multiplier effect. On this it is necessary to insist, also by rapidly implementing the decrees launched by the Government, for example with regard to the unblocking Italy. It is, therefore, a picture with lights and shadows, which is the result of the economic crisis that has hit the countries of the euro area in recent years, but which, as far as Italy is concerned, has deeper roots that come from far away. We know that we need a stronger way out. For this reason, reform actions have been undertaken by the Government clearly identified, both with regard to institutional reforms, to make our political system more modern and faster and, therefore, more able to respond to the problems we face (I refer to the reform of public administration and the reform of civil justice to remove at the base the main limits to the ability to compete with our major industrialized countries), and through the reduction of expenditure, which is necessary in order to be able to achieve that reduction of taxation on labour (started with 80 euros) and on the enterprises (started with the IRAP cut), which must be confirmed with the law of stability also for the coming years, along with a decided contrast to tax evasion and the illegal economy. I insist on the revision of public expenditure, according to the objectives already set in the next three years, with specific interventions on inefficiencies, overlaps and forms of improper income as an objective in order to achieve the reduction of taxation. These are just a few examples of the reforms that the Government has undertaken in recent months and that will have to be carried out in a strong, timely and with the necessary determination. But we also know that our recovery will be based on the need to carry out internal reforms, but, on the other hand, on the new policy in Europe, capable of combining austerity with growth, convinced as we are that without growth, as well as making European citizens pay an unsustainable social weight, there will not even be the containment of debt and control of accounts. Also in the light of these brief considerations and certain that the Update Note to the next Document of Economy and Finance and the law of stability will contain the guidelines to ensure that Italy resumes to grow, the Group of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the measures on the 2013 statement and the adjustment for 2014. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u42	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 1594 and 1595. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 1594, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 1595, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u43	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII, No 3 (Report on Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013) and VIII, No 4 (Project for the internal budget of the Senate for the financial year 2014). The rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. Mr Azzollini, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to ask for a brief suspension of the sitting so that we can recover the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 11.19 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I ask Senator Azzollini if he is now able to carry out his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u44	Yes, Madam President. My presentation will be quite brief because the budgetary perspective - and this is what I am giving to the presidency of the Senate and to the Commissioners - is beginning to become clearer and clearer, so that the need for better budgetary readability is increasingly documented in parliamentary acts. The summary of the budgets that we are going to discuss, the balance sheet and the preventive balance sheet, is always that: a reduction of the total cost of the Senate is ongoing both in percentage terms and in terms of absolute value of the same, continuing over time a precise will of this Assembly. All this can be deduced from the summary figures and appears immediately clear in the total volumes of revenue and expenditure. (at 11.21 a.m.) (at 11.21 a.m.) I remember, however, on this occasion I always do, that the budget should be read on time. For constitutional reasons, the Senate budget includes expenditure which does not normally appear in the budgets: I am referring in particular to social security expenditure, which in this case appears. It is interesting to see, therefore, how the actual cost is reduced because, for example, social security costs are subject to a dynamic of their own which has fixed and in some respects progressive constituents, as is logical. This means that, by increasing their incidence, they mean that the actual cost of this House will fall even more than is apparent from the macro balance sheet. That is why I have already asked, during the meetings, for the Senate's budget to be even more analytically divided into the four main sectors: the social security cost, the cost of staff and senators, the fixed or variable costs of the Senate's intermediate consumption, to be more precise. Having done so, we would see that the efforts that are being made go in the right direction and continue to do so. Let me add one last remark: I think - and it must be said - that democracy has a cost. This cost must be reduced in parts that may be superfluous, but there are parts in which the cost of democracy must not be reduced. The functionality of parliamentary services must always be ensured so that the senator can be placed in the best conditions to carry out his work. We must be careful not to drop a few things, Mr President, into unnecessary and often presumptuous polemics. The work of the senator and senator is a challenging job for the vast majority of us, and it needs supports that need to be seriously guaranteed. It is important that everything that is superfluous is removed, but it is equally important that everything that is necessary is maintained and, if possible, consolidated, so that, precisely from the proven consistency of behaviour in reducing the overall expenditure of the Senate, the function of the parliamentary mandate, to which we are bound and which we believe should be further safeguarded, is maintained and safeguarded. That is the basic understanding of the report that I wanted to make. In its concrete data it will be the task of the quaestors senators to analyze them in detail. On the basis of the debate, I will perhaps try to reply to what the senators and senators want to say. [[Applause from Senator Commissioner De Poli and Senators Di Biagio and Spousetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u45	He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, today we present the 2013 final budget and the 2014 forecast budget, as well as the 2014-2016 three-year budget of the Senate. The financial administration is made - as you know - of numbers. The current management of our resources, however, has always seen people, all Italian citizens behind these numbers. The Senate, once again, has confirmed a virtuous path of cost reduction that, in recent years, has always been more effective. The current administrative management has been guided by the principle of institutional efficiency and my thanks go in particular to all the collaborators and all the staff of the Senate who have contributed, this year, to improve the functioning of the Senate itself with a view to saving and paying attention - if you can give - intelligent. It wasn't about making indiscriminate cuts, it was about spending less and better. We therefore enter into the detail of the 2014 forecast balance sheet, which confirms the virtuous dynamics of the main items of income and expenditure. As senators Quaestors and as Presidency Council we have begun, and will continue throughout this period, an intelligent spending review, a common perspective and the same as all constitutional bodies. We have transposed the budget agendas approved last November and, in particular, the G1, which deals with very important points such as the dematerialisation of support for parliamentary activity and the activation of conventions with the Council for tendering procedures. We are working to establish a uniform legal status for the employees of the two branches of Parliament just these days, with the support of President Fedeli and all the other members of the Council. The 2013 estimate, the 2014 budget and the 2014-2016 three-year budget clearly show a decisive factor: we must overcome the logic of one-off interventions. The cuts made must affect and improve expenditure on a continuous basis. The accounting documents presented today are, in fact, its concrete result. Faced with a rigidity of Senate spending, which is 90% compulsory expenditure, we have adopted a series of interventions aimed at reducing costs. The structural reduction measures concerned three areas of membership: the senator's area, the staff area and the area of expenditure on goods and services. With regard to the first area that concerns all of us, all the allowances and accessories of the senators holding an institutional office have been reduced by 30%. We have confirmed the reduction of the parliamentary allowance, the cuts in the diary and ancillary skills. The reduction in Members' allowances has resulted in savings of EUR 1,231,000 per year. Thanks to the cut of the senators' diary and the reimbursement of expenditure, we have achieved a reduction of 3.840,000 euros per year. Thanks then to the contractual changes of the insurance services, we have reduced the expense of 785,000 euros. The second area of intervention concerns the Senate staff. Thanks to the agreement with the employees' organizations of the Senate, we have established the stop to the adjustment of the contracts and the blockage of the turnover. The stop of the adaptation of the contracts and the economic incentives will produce a saving of approximately 4 million euros in 2014, while the block of the turnover will decrease the costs to regime much more, to the extent of approximately 30 million euros. From 1,230 employees we have increased today to 800 and in 2015 we can go down to 770. This means a 35% reduction in the employees of the Senate. I believe that, compared to the public administration, the rationalization of the resources we have, in order to have clearly lower costs but also a profit and a better context, is very important. Chamber and Senate have also defined, always in the context of staff, the joint guidelines for the introduction of maximum limits on wages - the famous roofs - in analogy to the provisions of Decree-Law No 66 of 2014. These measures lead us to work in order to quickly and jointly achieve a unique role for Parliament's employees and thus reorganise administrative functions and structures. The process of reorganization, carried out in collaboration with the Chamber of Deputies, concerns the Services - among other things - of documentation, computer science, logistics, tenders and contracts, library center and health center. In addition, the recent resolution of our Presidency Council, No 42 of 24 July 2014, has activated the process of unification of the administrative activities of Chamber and Senate that concern the status of parliamentarians. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 35 and 36 of 11 June 2014 result a further item of savings: in fact, the measures relating to the introduction of the solidarity contribution to the social security treatment of former senators and former employees have been transposed into national law. The savings achieved amounted to 5.2 million euros for 2014, 5.7 million euros for 2015 and 6.2 million euros for 2016. Among other things, this corresponds to the G6 agenda, which was adopted when the budget was examined last year. The third area of intervention concerns goods and services. In the technical sector there is a structural saving of about three million euros. It is about 2.915,000 euros of decrease of rentals and utilities. In this context of cost containment there are also the savings of about 130,000 euros resulting from the movement of our garage in a less commercial area of the city, a little further away, but owned by the Municipality of Rome and therefore with significantly lower costs, if not those for living expenses. Under the scheme, savings for goods and services are over EUR 3 million per year. These are economic benefits resulting from new tendering procedures and measures already taken or under way. The interventions decided by the College of Quaestors concern the digital reproduction centre, television monitoring, computer science and dematerialization of documents. A cost rationalisation operation concerns the tendering procedure for the digital reproduction centre, which combines the press services of parliamentary acts into a single contract. This is a significant reduction in costs, estimated at 60%, which involves more than EUR 1 million per year of less spending. A race for radio and television monitoring is underway, which provides for savings already in premise of 72,000 euros. Another important area where we are changing all infrastructure is the IT one: with new virtualization technologies, many services have been merged with the cloud system. The result was a savings of 878,000 euros, not to mention the additional downs that are supposed to be obtained from the race. Another 120,000 euros of lower costs per year can be attributed to reductions in electricity costs (60,000 euros) and lower operating costs. In the field of information technology, synergy with the House of Deputies should also produce an important reduction in expenditure. It is therefore in the process of being discussed the creation of a single centre of Parliament with the opening of a new data processing centre of Parliament, thus without a division between the House and the Senate. In this perspective, the collaboration between the House and the Senate led to the approval of the unified Internet connectivity, which saved 400,000 euros for both branches of Parliament. In addition, the invitation to tender for catering services is about to be launched, which already provides for an auction-based reduction of more than one million euros. Dematerialisation was then carried out, a measure also adopted in response to the G21 agenda adopted last year during the examination of the budget for the financial year 2013. In fact, the agenda concerned the dematerialisation and computerization of parliamentary acts. Precisely the dematerialization of the acts and the internalization of the prepress services will bring an immediate reduction of 770,000 euros but it is assumed that as the service is internalized, the savings will increase a lot. The balance sheet for 2013 recorded a total effective expenditure of €512,993,041 net of the sums to be paid to the State as savings. Since in 2012 the expenditure amounted to 520,625,482 euros, the Report for 2013 recorded a decrease in actual expenditure of 7.632,441 euros. Although it was the year of the legislature change, with all the problems attached and related to the renewal of the Senate, there was therefore a significant and important saving. Then there are a number of expenditure reductions that have been recorded by the Presidency Council, by the Presidents of the Commissions, by the Parliamentary Councils of about 30%. A reduction in expenditure was also achieved in the chapters Rentals and utilities, Services, Supplies and Ordinary Maintenance where an advantage of 10 percent was obtained. With respect to the supplies to which I referred, EUR 4 million has been saved. These items include reductions in the insurance services chapters, which decreased by 20%, rentals and utilities (-39 per cent), transport and shipping costs (-18 per cent). In addition, capital expenditure is also reduced by more than 66% as far as the balance sheet is concerned. The items that most contribute to this result are the expenditure reductions related to the expenditure chapter Extraordinary maintenance that records a -72 percent and the purchase of books and publications that record a -37 percent. The virtuous development of our accounts emerges even more from the comparison of the final accounts over a longer period of time. The comparison, for example, shows a 10% decrease between 2009 and 2012, while the 2009 and 2013 accounts (therefore, considering the annual balance sheet of the current year) show a 15% decrease. Which means that the trend of the Senate is always attentive to the containment of expenses and therefore to the reductions that I have just mentioned to you, also following the approaches adopted by the extraordinary commissioner for the revision of the expenditure, the so-called Cookarelli Plan. The budget for the financial year 2014 continues the virtuous path undertaken. Expenditure amounts to EUR 541 million, net of the savings to be paid to the State. In detail, the forecast balance for 2014 marks a clear distinction between operating costs and those of a strictly social security nature. As you know, the Senate budget as well as being a cash balance sheet contains social security charges unlike the budgets of any other public body. So this year we wanted there to be a marked distinction between the two areas. The running expenses of the Senate during the three-year period 2011-2013 decreased by 13.88 percent. There is also a clear reduction in operating costs, including staff salaries and senators' allowances, which increase from 335. 935,000 euros in 2013 to 329,735,000 euros in 2014, therefore, with a saving of 6,200,000 euros also in this sector. As I pointed out, in total spending there is a strong incidence of social security expenditure compared to the running expenditure of the Senate. Just look at the two figures: in the 2014 forecast budget the total amount of Senate expenditure is 541,000,000 euros. Of this figure, EUR 329,735,000 are earmarked for operating expenditure and EUR 211,265,000 for social security expenditure. If we compare the figures for the 2014 budget with those for the previous years, we will notice that compared to 2008 the total expenditure of the Senate is stablely lower than the values achieved in the previous seven years: it has decreased by 17.1 percent in real terms compared to 2008 and by 9 percent in nominal terms, always compared to 2008. There is therefore a real reduction in the appropriations for all macro-areas of expenditure. In 2014, the budget (that is, what the Senate costs to the State) amounts to 505.360.500 euros. The budget is also reduced by EUR 21.6 million this year. Therefore, it is an important and constant reduction. In other words, the Senate is demanding less and less money from the state: 21.6 million euros less this year. The second aggregate consists of revenue such as transfers from the House and social security contributions from the senators and the initial cash fund. Only one chapter can be increased compared to this: it is the chapter of studies, research, documentation and information; increase ascribed to spending residues committed last year but not carried out in 2013. Since it is a cash balance sheet, we clearly find it in our actual budget this year. In summary, Palazzo Madama's savings amount to €75.5 million for the period from 2013 to 2014. In 2014 there are 21.6 million euros of less budget; 5.2 million euros of solidarity contribution and 14.6 million euros of savings that we clearly pay in the state coffers. The solidarity contribution this year amounted to 5.2 million euros for 2014; 5.7 million euros for 2015 and 6.2 million euros for 2016. Based on a comparative reading of the budgets, in 2014 the Senate contributes almost 30% to the savings of the constitutional bodies. The expenditure for the Senate, in the 2014 budget, amounts to a total of 541,000,000 euros and the budget of Palazzo Madama represents 0.066 percent of the state budget. I remember that in 2011 this figure was 0.081 percent. After all these issues, which I have tried to illustrate in the shortest possible time, I recall once again that both the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors and the whole Senate have tried to make an important contribution, at a time of great difficulty for Italy and our citizens, ensuring that our expenses are reduced as much as possible. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u47	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Vacciano is a member of the Committee, who will also present the G3 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u48	Mr President, I will present the G3 agenda, since we frequently support the need to bring the citizen closer to the institutions and to build or restore a relationship of trust in this House and in the report on the internal budget. In our view, the main way to recover this relationship of trust is inevitably through the maximum transparency of the institutions. It is precisely on the subject of transparency that our agenda draws all the attention, with reference to transparency towards the citizens but, even before that, to those who, within the Senate, must have full and timely confidence in the budget items, in order to be able to carry out effectively the tasks related to their role. We therefore propose that in the appropriate section of the Senate's website, budgets and published statements are provided with drop-down menus, detailing the individual items of expenditure. I think it is clear that these voices can be made transparent to those who want to get closer to the Senate budget in order to have a greater level of knowledge of our expenses and their types. We also request that the documents related to the budget being approved be forwarded to the members of the Presidency Council at least 30 days in advance of the date of deliberation, including in Excel format or in electronic form as well as in pdf format, to allow for a better examination. Finally, in the last commitment to the administration, we call for the deadlines to be respected: we must set a good example for the budget to be actually presented within the first quarter of each year. These rules are already laid down, so we are not asking for anything exceptional, except for compliance with the rules: these are requests that would not substantially entail additional costs, but would bring great benefits in terms of the quality of the work carried out by the Presidency Council. As it is clear, these are simple demands for transparency and common sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u49	Senator Bertorotta, who will also present the G10 agenda during her speech, is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to outline the agenda for the G10, in order to suggest to my fellow Members, as I did last year, a simple and quick way of saving money by reducing our allowances and allowances. Once and for all, we ask you to imitate us in the 5 Star Movement, which in one and a half years we have been able to donate EUR 7,234 million to the Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises - which unfortunately still does not work - and EUR 1,570 million to the Fund for the depreciation of government bonds. On 6 November 2013, during the 135th public session, I intervened to explain the G3 agenda with a special commitment, namely the same council that I gave you just now: to reduce the parliamentary allowances, as well as to regulate the parliamentary diary, which we benefit from. I would remind you that the Senator Commissioner Malan, who left me speechless in saying that the net allowance of the members of the Italian Parliament, the Senate and the House, was the lowest of the great European countries, as well as the diary. I would like to ask Senator Commissioner Malan, engaged in another conversation, if he really believes that our allowances are low; if he really believes that with the reduction of our allowances we cannot make a small contribution to this society. As far as the daily - and here I am addressing all of you colleagues - is it stupid to report expenses? For us it is not; indeed it is necessary, especially because the method of reporting, once started, is simple and fast. To publish our report is a satisfaction because we do not fear disputes; our voters deserve it: transparency and coherence are the principles on which our way of conceiving politics is based. After all, I think your voters would also like to know how you spend citizens' money. Among other things, ladies and gentlemen, excuse me for being frank, but all this money is also exaggerated to me: we work from Tuesday afternoon to Thursday afternoon; I would like to remind you - and we do this because we have just entered Parliament - that an average citizen who works six days a week for 40 hours certainly does not receive a salary like ours; while we, who do not even reach 30 hours a week, take four times more, apart from the diary, the expenses for telephony, flights and trains free of charge to go to work. Don't tell me this isn't about salary: call it what you want, but it's always money. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, at the end of my speech to explain the agenda which I referred to earlier and which I have retabled, because I firmly believe it, I urged you to show respect for the citizens who voted for us. You have the opportunity to prove that you are changing and that you are not tied to the chair and money. We all have the opportunity to change the overall pay, without weakening the role we play, with the sole and simple objective of restoring dignity and value to the politics and political class to which we belong. Unfortunately, I have the well-founded fear that the terms "dignity" and "coherence" do not fall into the vocabulary in use here and I say it with deep disappointment. However, I hope to rethink myself, and that is why I trust in your common sense and in the adoption of the agenda that I have just presented. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u51	Senator Blundo, who will also present the G17 agenda during her speech, is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u52	Mr President, the G17 agenda is intended to commit the Senate Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to take any measures necessary to make equalisation of the vital allowances paid to the senators who have ceased their mandate and their family members. Mr President, in our Group's view, this is a commitment that the institutions should absolutely have to make, especially at a time such as this of great economic difficulty for all families and workers, who will be out of here today to tell us. The adoption of the G17 agenda would also be an important signal and would help bring citizens closer to the parliamentary institution. The budget of the Senate foresees, for the year 2014, an expenditure of 82,5 million euros for the chapter "Treatment of the senators ceased from the mandate ". With this agenda, we call for the senators who have ceased their mandate to contribute to the containment of the Senate's expenditure, paying a 10% equal contribution to the gross amounts up to EUR 90,000, and 20% for the part exceeding the gross amounts of EUR 90,000, allowing not only the recovery of some resources to be used as a cover for the adoption of important measures for labour and small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for a concrete reduction in public expenditure, as Mr Bertorotta has already explained. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u53	Senator Gaetti, who will also present the G18 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u54	Mr President, the G18 agenda concerns the solidarity cheque, that is, the cheque that we will receive at the end of our mandate and that corresponds to about EUR 30,000 in five years and therefore to about EUR 5,000 per year, for an expenditure of about EUR 2 million per year for the Senate. When such a cheque was created, it had its rational meaning; that is, it was a contribution to allow each of us, having completed our parliamentary activity, to return to normal working life, especially with regard to freelance professionals, but many of them do not stop carrying out their professional activity, during their term of office: doctors continue to make visits to the clinic, and lawyers earn more than plots, engaging in proxy activities and in the most important Italian processes. It therefore loses its meaning for them and for civil servants or that, after this period, they will return to their work. Finally, it makes no sense for those who in recent years have reached retirement age and do not need this help to return to their work. Beyond its positive significance, it has been shown over the years that this institute serves little. For this reason I ask that it be abolished also because we of the 5 Star Movement have already decided to return it, resulting in a saving of 2 million per year for the Senate or 10 million in the five years of legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u55	Senator Battista is enrolled to speak, who will also explain the agendas of the G14 and G16 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u56	Mr President, I will present the agendas for the G14 and G16 days. The first is asked to document half of our mandate exercise. There is already a four-monthly report, but at the moment none of us have been subjected to it. The idea is to give you at least a boost. On the other hand, the G16 agenda calls for a commitment to equate our pension treatment with that currently in force for most workers. The current deduction in our pocket-pay is about 913.91 euros and, if we end the 5 years of the legislature, the pension will start at the age of 65, while the pension is taken at 60 years if you are senators for ten years. The G16 agenda calls for an equalisation that gives a signal, since with the examination of certain measures we find ourselves having an impact on the lives of all workers. The quaestor senators should guarantee the right to return to the quota set aside by the senator if the legislature does not come to an end. These two agendas are subject to the judgement of the quaestors senators, who have the possibility to integrate and improve our reporting and our social security contribution, giving a signal also in relation to what we ask the rest of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u57	Senator Giarrusso, who will also present the G19 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u58	Mr President, I will present the G19 agenda, which is of great importance because it tends to give back dignity and prestige to those who serve their country in these classrooms, exercising a parliamentary elective mandate. Those who carry out this service, according to the provisions in force, obtain a benefit of a social security type, called a life benefit with a much lower number of years than the workers of this country. Well, allowing us to perceive this treatment with such a short period of time is linked to the high office that we cover. The G19 agenda, therefore, is intended to strike at those who have offended and distorted the mandate conferred on them by the citizens. The proof of this vulnus comes from the sentences of conviction of the judiciary for infamous crimes. We believe that the life allowance cannot be paid by those who have brought final sentences to sentences of more than two years of imprisonment for crimes, consumed or attempted, provided for in Article 51, paragraphs 3 -bis and 3 -quater, of the Code of Criminal Procedure; they have brought final sentences of more than two years of imprisonment for crimes, consumed or attempted, provided for in Book II, Title II, Chapter I, of the Code of Criminal Procedure; they have brought final sentences of more than two years of imprisonment for non-injury, consumed or attempted crimes, for which the penalty of imprisonment is provided for not less than four years, determined in accordance with Article 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. These are serious crimes: crimes against public administration, crimes related to Mafia crimes. At this moment we are giving these treatments to persons detained with heavy sentences or who have suffered heavy sentences for serious crimes, and this is being experienced in our country as a very serious injustice. The agenda aims to restore a principle of fairness between those colleagues who carry out their mandate with dignity and honor, as prescribed by the Constitution, and those who have offended this mandate and the office they have held in their own conduct, in and outside the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u59	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u60	Mr President, the documents we are examining are set within a scenario which sees two very important points insisting on our institution. The first concerns the process initiated by this House with the approval at first reading by the constitutional reform; the second, as the debate of these hours and days is there to demonstrate, the need for necessary reform processes to be carried out in the country in a short time, able to allow also a different and greater rationalization in the use of public resources. In this scenario, therefore, our discussion cannot help but ask a simple but significant question: what contribution can be made to further rationalise the functioning of this Chamber and consequently to better use the resources made available, also making additional and even more marked savings? Moreover, this objective can be considered not only necessary but also practicable, taking into account what has already been done during the last three years of the administration of the Senate. In fact, if we look at the 2010 financial values, during the last three financial years, we have promoted and achieved a first path of rationalization and containment of expenditure that has covered almost all the chapters of the Senate's internal budget, obtaining expenditure savings even of a structural nature. In this respect, it should be noted in particular that these first objectives were achieved through a reduction in operating expenditure and in the part relating to expenditure on the senators' term of office. A point, the latter, strongly desired and pursued by the Group of the Democratic Party, starting with the abolition of the vitality and the introduction of a pro rata contributory system. The same surplus in 2013, which stands at just under 18 million euros, testifies to what has been done during the last managements. The budget for 2014 is consistently proposed to further reduce overall expenditure by 9% compared to 2010. I would also like to point out to my colleagues that there is a further decrease of about EUR 2 million in current expenditure compared to forecast in 2013, as well as the savings that may result from the process of restructuring the remuneration structure of employees in service and from the combination of common functions and services with the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps it should be pointed out that some further reduction in expenditure could be achieved mainly in functional aggregates relating to particular secretaries and advice. In my view, the current forecasts can be further reduced by strengthening the rationalization measures which have already been implemented in this area at the beginning of the parliamentary term. In any case, the 2014 budget also aims to achieve the objectives of reducing expenditure achieved in 2013. In essence, precisely because of the objective conditions under which the State finances are located, it is appropriate to understand whether there are still margins for better use of the resources available, without taking away anything from the positive assessments of the performances so far recorded. From this point of view, it is evident in the reading of the data available that the overall improvement recorded does not, for example, confirm the increase in expenditure on the treatment of employees, as well as in the expenditure chapters relating to the treatment of former senators. It is clear, therefore, that a more careful and articulated assessment of these expenditure aggregates should be put in place immediately in order to foresee the setting-up of appropriate corrective measures, thereby improving their trends. At the same time, in addition to the initiatives already put in place and to be carried out in connection with the unification of parliamentary structures, these intentions should be implemented as soon as possible, also immediately promoting the unification and strengthening of certain services. I am thinking, for example, of those relating to the budget and to the study department itself. As reiterated in the discussions on the Senate's internal budget on previous occasions, a further point that could lead to a rationalization of expenditure and an adequate qualification remains in the field. I am referring to the need to address the issue of parliamentary collaborators, by adopting those regulatory measures to give contractual certainty and transparency to the activity of assistance to parliamentary work. This would allow us, Mr President, to discuss seriously the same issue as the ancillary allowances of Members. Finally, but not least, a substantial aggregate of expenditure on which to intervene, precisely with decision, certainly concerns the so-called treatment for the former senators. This is all the more necessary in relation to the very nature of the solidarity fund if it is projected in the years to come. From this point of view, some experiences of parliamentary institutions in other parts of Europe could be taken into account, i.e. to promote regulatory solutions which, taking into account the current regime, are able to guarantee in future the provision of a coherent cheque to the actual payments made. I will conclude by highlighting all the attention paid to the documents under consideration, pointing out - in particular - the opportunity, with regard to the sensitive issue of staff, to continue the work already undertaken on legal and economic treatment, with the aim of creating a unique role that can enhance the highest quality and the recognized professionalism of the workers of the Chambers. Finally, Mr President, starting from the commitment of the College of Quaestors to proposals and activities, which will certainly not fail, I therefore believe that it is possible, in the immediate future, to put in place further measures to rationalise and qualify expenditure, addressing those aggregates which still present considerable scope for action. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u61	I call Senator Giarrusso to explain the G20 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u62	Mr President, on the G20 agenda, we intend to remedy a further and even more serious injustice which has unfortunately been perpetrated and lived in a very penal and humiliating way by the citizens of our country. We know that in our system, for many decades, public employees who are affected by protective measures in prison immediately obtain a suspension from the service and economic treatment in enjoyment of which residual only a part that is called their own food allowance. Only part of the economic treatment is left to allow the family of the person subject to the precautionary measures to survive. We understand well how, in the face of this which is now a peaceful institution of our order, to have, even at this moment, inmates parliamentarians who take full advantage of economic treatment throws a great discredit on all of us: it is a great discredit, almost to make us seem even collusive or conniving subjects with those who commit so serious crimes that they are confined in jail. Now, in order to repair this which is experienced by the Italians as a huge injustice, as an absurd privilege that - I repeat - casts discredit on this institution that we intend to defend and bring back to the levels it deserves, we believe that those who are confined to prison as a result of precautionary measures should not achieve economic treatment in enjoyment for the exercise of the mandate that it does not carry out being held in prison. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u63	I would like to make it clear to the House that Senator Giarrusso has spoken twice because of a lack of communication, so his speech must be linked to the previous one. The precise reason why we don't want to create precedents: it was just a mess. Senator Castaldi, who will also present the G23 agenda during his speech, is in attendance. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u64	Mr President, I rise to explain the G23 agenda: it is another small box of open tuna. As we know, we receive 4,180 euros for parliamentary cooperation, but the institution asks us to report 2,090 euros. Simply put, even to make people understand the issue, the Senate gives us 2,090 euros of black. It is serious that this happens in the institutions. It is necessary - as the Senator of the Group of the Democratic Party has just said - to regularize these working relationships, both to avoid the black, as I have just explained (I repeat that we receive 4,180 euros, but the Senate asks us to report only 2,090), and to give certainty and protection to workers precisely in the most authoritative institutions that are Chamber and Senate. We must solve the problem of the recognition of these professional figures: this is already the case in the European Parliament and we can apply a similar rule also for the Senate, directly and without having discussions. Let us apply it today; let us vote on it and apply it. Therefore, with this agenda we commit the Government, for their respective competences, the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, present here, to extend the remuneration arrangements currently provided for the collaborators of the members of the Presidency Council and of the Presidents of the Commission, i.e. the direct payment by the administration of the Senate of the Republic of the compensation established in favour of the collaborators themselves, subject to the same amount of the reimbursement of the expenses for the performance of the parliamentary mandate. All the more so, this commitment is required in view of the prospect of the new Senate, for whose members no compensation is provided. The new senators will only have a lump sum for the reimbursement of expenses, but they will also need to hire collaborators in order to be able to perform their best service to citizens in this building. Finally, the direct payment of the compensation of the collaborators, managed and provided by the Senate administration, will represent an appropriate signal of transparency and equality towards all professional figures who will be called to make their indispensable contribution to the works of Palazzo Madama. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u65	Senator Cioffi is a member of the Committee, who will also present the G47 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u66	Mr President, on this agenda we want to highlight the need for the publicity and transparency of parliamentary work, which are certainly fundamental principles that must be implemented if we do not want them to remain a dead letter. But we have to improve a lot if we want to achieve this: for example, what is happening in the Commissions, where the real work is done, where we are discussing, we get into the detail, in the analysis, where all the senators express their logical position on the various measures, of all these activities not always the citizens are able to be informed, because the work of the Commission is not broadcast on a YouTube channel or on a web TV. We must therefore absolutely improve this aspect, provided that the Senate wants the citizens to be really informed and attentive. The question is whether we really want to do this because, if so, we have to do something. For example, the informal hearings that are held in the Bureau in the Commissions are not recorded, do not go live streaming, nor is the Minutes made, so the things that are said in those seats remain only in the minds of those who have listened to them. When, for example, we spoke in the Commission about the variant of the crossing point, the ANAS, the Autostrade company for Italy and the companies were audited, but there is no trace of these reasonings, so it is not possible to have a memory of what has been said, nor do the citizens have the opportunity to learn about it. We must therefore increase the opportunity for citizens to know what is going on within Parliament, so that they are all really informed. If the aim is to increase - as we would have once said - the critical capacity of the citizen to be really active, we must provide him with all the necessary information and information. Our Group has always made transparency a point of pride and so we would like to achieve this. As far as the cost is concerned, we do not have to deal with any expenditure, because in any Commission, when Ministers come, all the documentation is already being sent via the web. The infrastructure is already there; it would only be a very small cost. With the agenda G47 we therefore ask that the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors of the Senate put us in a position to be able to transmit on the Senate website all the work of the Commissions, the Parliamentary Councils and the collegial bodies. It is therefore desirable to strengthen the web tools in order to have this greater dissemination. There is a great deal of talk for the institutions of the glass house. I think the metaphor is very beautiful, but if it is not implemented, there is nothing left but an enunciation or a university manual metaphor. That is why we are calling for this agenda to be accepted, with great conviction. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u67	Senator Girotto, who will also present the G52 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u68	Mr President, the G52 agenda very simply calls for the implementation of energy efficiency policies on the ten buildings in the Senate (about 100,000 square metres). In the last parliamentary term an intervention has already been made for the realization of a photovoltaic plant of 200 kilowatts. We are calling for an organic plan of action to reduce energy consumption and to train staff to be more efficient, and we are asking for this for many reasons. First of all, we are asked by Europe, which in its Energy Roadmap 2050 reminds us that decarbonising the energy system has costs equivalent to normal maintenance of the current energy system. This is what the International Monetary Fund is asking us to do. In its last report, it explicitly states that the taxation of fossil products must be increased considerably in order to incorporate externalities, because the environmental and health damage caused by the use of energy from fossil sources is such that they must be fully incorporated into taxation. The World Bank, which hopes and points out that in many countries a carbon tax is finally being introduced to incorporate these externalities. We are asked by the International Energy Agency (IEA), which makes us sadly present as the subject of energy efficiency is extremely underestimated and that two thirds of the interventions that should be done are not put in place for pure and simple underestimation of what can be saved and is a dramatic fact because in Italy, for example, a badly done building throws away on average two thirds of the energy it uses, which are therefore dispersed. Considering the fact that 40% (compared to the total Italian) of the energy we use is consumed by the buildings, it is a dramatic fact. Finally, we also have an obligation as a result of the recent transposition of Directive 2009/27/EU, which obliges central government buildings to be efficient by 3%. In this respect, with great regret, I stress the fact that the transposition of this directive has been extremely negative for us because we have limited ourselves to placing this obligation on the central public administration, so a few hundred buildings throughout Italy, when, if we had done so for all the national public administration, there would have been tens of thousands of buildings and therefore tens of thousands of open yards, hundreds of thousands of jobs, which is the absolute priority in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u69	Senator Cappelletti is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G54 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u70	Mr President, I shall proceed with the presentation of the G54 agenda. Allow me to make a very brief point: I have noticed a sentence from the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, who struck me: we must reflect on the fact that democracy has a cost. But you, Senator, and this majority, have even voted for the repeal of the elections of this institution, namely for the repeal of the Senate elections of the Republic, replacing them with second-degree elections. What are we talking about? This is about approving only the expenses that please you and your parties, other than the costs of democracy, Senator Azzollini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The G54 agenda commits the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to cancel, or not to renew any subscription relating to the purchase of newspapers and magazines, I emphasize, paper, distributed to the offices and services of Members regardless of whether or not they hold the office. I would like to point out three reasons, very briefly: there is certainly a general need for cost containment, but it is certainly not a priority, although it is considerable costs (we speak of 140,000 euros per year). It is a motivation, this, just and well-founded but certainly not the main one. Instead, I recall the general need for a progressive dematerialization of paper that should involve the entire public administration of our country, starting, as an example, precisely from its most representative institutions such as the Senate of the Republic. A third and last reason is the one linked above all to the least environmental impact that would result, naturally linked to printing, consumption, disposal and recycling of paper, for obvious reasons of reduction of the environmental impact. That is why we are calling for this agenda to be adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u71	Senator Serra, who will also present the G55 agenda in the course of her speech, is a member of the House. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u72	Mr President, I will present the G55 agenda. According to data from the Bureau of the Economist, currently all the paper that is used in the offices of the Senate and the parliamentary groups for prints and photocopies is paper of virgin fibers, without any recourse to the use of recycled paper. The protection of forests and sustainable forestry are central issues within the macro issue of environmental protection and the proper management and protection of the environmental and forestry heritage represents the degree of evolution of a society. Printing less paper should be, even before saving, a normal assumption in a computerized society and, in particular, within its institutions. So, what a better example would be to have the Senate as the institution that initiates the virtuous cycle of the use of recycled paper! Therefore, with this specific agenda we want to reiterate how we could gradually increase the percentage of recycled paper supplied to both senators and groups and we could offer an option of use between natural and recycled paper always in the current equipment, thus committing ourselves to saving and avoiding a waste. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the draft internal budget and the accounts is an important appointment for the life of our institution, at a time when it is possible to carry out overall assessments of the functioning of the Senate and the administrative machinery, its problems and the guidelines to be adopted. Of course, the debate is taking place today at a particular stage, which saw the adoption, before the suspension of parliamentary work for the summer break, of the draft constitutional law that goes beyond the perfect bicameralism. As Senator Quagliariello rightly pointed out, during the session of the Assembly of 8 August last, in motivating the final favorable vote of our Group on that project, the perfect bicameralism that we have known so far responded to the needs of the historical time in which it was introduced and the new bicameralism will respond to a different logic, to the needs of our time. It will correct the distortions of the current Title V and will make the legislative process much more streamlined and faster, because we can no longer allow ourselves, in the era of global markets, a time of approval of the laws more than double the average of our European competitors. The need for faster times in the parliamentary decision had been underlined by me - you will allow me to do so - in my speech on the internal budget, at the sitting of the Assembly on 6 November 2013. It was precisely on that occasion that I pointed out that the times of society, the complexity of relations within society and the economic and social dynamics at European and international level postulate greater speed in the legislative process in the Commissions and in the Assembly. The adoption of that draft constitutional law has a significant impact on the ongoing discussion because, on the one hand, the budgetary documents we are discussing here are related to the running costs of the Senate in its current structural and functional configuration. On the other hand, in view of that approval, we are faced with a different perspective, which is to carry out today an evaluation of what may be the administrative structure functional to the exercise of the new powers of this branch of Parliament. The adoption of that draft constitutional law brings, in fact, a strongly innovative discipline of the composition and functions of the Senate. The outcome of the complex process of constitutional revision, which is now continuing before the Chamber's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will therefore need to reflect on how the structures will have to respond, in organisational modules, to the new functions assigned to this branch of Parliament. From this point of view, I would like to refer to Article 39 of the draft Constitutional Act concerning the final provisions - on which I reserve the right to go back further in the course of my speech - when reference is made to organisational solutions which will affect the administrations of the two branches of Parliament. Let us now look at the draft internal budget and the data that emerge from its reading. It is without doubt a document - as has been found also by the quaestors senators - that records a generalized reduction of the burdens. The total expenditure of the Senate is inferior to the values of the previous years: in the years 2014-2016 the budget is reduced of 21,6 million euros - as has already been mentioned - regarding the amount of 2011; in the generality of the cases the appropriations of the chapters of expenditure record a reduction. If we consider the relationship between the forecast expenditure of the State and the forecast expenditure of the Senate - equal, for this year, net of the savings to be paid to the budget of the State, to the value of 0.066, as recalled by the commissioner De Poli - we note that this result, absolutely positive, has been achieved with a decided action of containment of the expenditure implemented from the previous years. These figures, and the others offered by a detailed analysis of the sums entered in the internal budget, constitute a concrete response to the applicants, sometimes demagogic, controversy over the costs of the Senate and, more generally, the constitutional bodies. The figures for our examination testify to the commitment of this branch of Parliament to continue with the policy of reducing expenditure which has been initiated since the last parliamentary term, and this must be duly acknowledged by President Schifani. This expenditure containment activity deserves appreciation, but at the same time it must be stressed the need to avoid any logic that addresses the issues relating to the functioning of the institutions, and for us in the Senate, according to a mere logic of costs. The expenditure in the internal budget is in fact an expression of the cost of democracy. And the Senate, both in the current form known to us and in the different new form that it will assume, at the end of the constitutional revision process, will still need resources to enable the actual performance of its functions. It is not just a question of projecting economies. It cannot be thought that the cost of the Senate that comes from that project is zeroed just because its members will not receive compensation from the Senate itself. The new Senate model will involve the establishment of a structure that will enable it to function and, therefore, will require adequate resources. On the other hand, on the point of treatment for senators, it should be emphasized that the comparison between the actual revenue of the Senate budget and the expenditure on compensation of Members registers over the years is a progressive decrease. The absolute value of expenditure on parliamentary allowances also decreases. In this regard, we also recall on this occasion that - as explained by the so-called Giovannini Commission - the overall cost by way of economic treatment of the European Assemblies with the highest GDP is higher than that borne by the Italian parliamentarians. Precisely the consideration that the new administrative model of the Senate will be defined - as I mentioned before - following the adoption of the draft Constitutional Law causes the reading of paragraph 3 of Article 39 of that project to raise doubts. This provision provides that, taking into account the provisions of that draft, within the current legislature on the date of entry into force of the constitutional law, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic shall ensure, in accordance with efficiency and rationalisation criteria, the functional integration of parliamentary administrations, through common services, coordinated use of human and instrumental resources and any other form of collaboration. To this end, the single role of Parliament's employees, consisting of the staff of the two Chambers, who adopt a single Staff Regulations, is established. Meanwhile a first consideration from the point of view of the system of the normative sources. I believe that the use of certain constitutional instruments should be evaluated in order to define matters which are of mere administrative importance. In other words, it does not seem convincing to me to use the procedure provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution to regulate matters - functional integration, a single role - which should be reserved to the determinations of political management bodies and administrations and to the agreement with the trade union organizations of the employees of the two branches of Parliament. Article 40 of that draft constitutional law, then, differentiates the date of application of the provisions brought by it. While paragraph 3 of Article 39, like some other provisions, is immediately applicable once the law has been published in the Official Journal, other provisions will apply from the legislature following the dissolution of both Chambers. In other words, a time mismatch is determined, since the measures provided for in paragraph 3 will affect the current administrative structure of the Senate even before the new functions of the Senate are concretely operational and, therefore, even before the time of the adaptation of the administrative apparatus to the new functions. There is, therefore, the well-founded risk of intervening several times on the administrative structure of the Senate: a first time to give application to that paragraph 3 on the basis of the current organizational structure; a second time to adapt this structure to the new functions of the Senate and a further time to give application to the same paragraph 3 on the basis of the administrative structure as well as adapted to the new functions. In conclusion on this point, I believe that the whole of the considerations put forward suggest that serious consideration be given to the hypothesis that the provision of paragraph 3 of Article 39 should be expunged from the current text of the draft constitutional law leaving, as said, to the determinations of the political management bodies, to the administrations and to the agreement with the trade union organizations the task of continuing in the path of the integration of certain structures defining their times and modalities, all supported in the manner I used to refer to. As the Quaestor Senators have already pointed out, it is a path that has been initiated for a long time and that must bear in mind the specificity of the two administrations. Experiences of integration of structures have already been positively tested, as in the case of the constitution of the Librarian Pole in addition to those already underlined by Senator Questore. This integration path must start from more easily integrated services. Senators Quaestors, for example, reflected on the integration of the first aid services of the two administrations. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that these services are aimed not only at parliamentary users, but at the service of anyone who accesses the Palace. They are therefore hundreds of thousands of people who, in different ways, are present every year in the Palaces of the two branches of Parliament. It is therefore easier in this area to imagine a structure that has in the shape of a single coordinator the person able to ensure in the best way the use of internal or external staff of the two branches of Parliament that operates in the sector with a view to a more economic management of the total resources allocated to this function. In conclusion, steps in the direction of the integration of the structures have been made, others can be made, but we escape from abstract constructions such as those outlined in paragraph 3 of Article 39. This provision therefore appears completely abstract where, as I mentioned earlier, it provides for the establishment of a unique role of the employees of the Chamber and Senate as a functional element for the integration of their respective administrations. The establishment of a single role neglects to consider that, as I have already had occasion to argue, the process of reform of bicameralism will lead to a new Senate that will require the use of staff to date in service that, even in relation to the known events linked to the decrease of economic treatments, is being reduced. I therefore believe that the issues of the integration of the two administrations and the achievement of a single role should be removed from that project and entrusted to that procedural model which I referred to earlier, which I would like to stress once again the need for the involvement and sharing of the staff of the two branches of Parliament. The theme of the single role refers to the more general one of the policies for the staff on which I wish to express some consideration, but not before having addressed to all the employees, from the Secretary General to the parliamentary assistants, a non-formal thanks for the commitment, professionalism and the willingness to work that they demonstrate every day in support of the activities of the Senate, lending their work well beyond the working hours and outside of any programming. Just think of the contribution made by officials in the various legislative, documentation and administrative fields, but also of the activity that parliamentary assistants carry out in maintaining the order in the sessions of the Assembly, in controlling the entrances, on the occasion of visits to the Palaces of the Senate. The interventions on the economic treatment of this staff, which constitutes a reserve of excellence, must therefore be carried out bearing in mind the objective not only not to disperse in any way this wealth of knowledge, but to enhance it. We also consider that already in the 16th legislature the Senate and the House, in the context of savings policies, had addressed the issue of staff salaries, reaching the approval of new pay curves for future recruitment staff. In addition, measures were taken to limit the economic treatment of staff in service. We are careful not to constantly change the framework of economic treatment thus creating a permanent situation of uncertainty that is negatively reflected on the staff. In this sense, the number of requests for retirement should lead to prudent assessments of those who care about the autonomy and authority of this branch of Parliament. In this respect, I note that the provision made by Decree No 66 of 24 April 2014, which sets the maximum wage limit at EUR 240,000 per year poses serious constitutional problems. In fact, in the general system, public employees are prohibited from paying compensation in return for their work. This is a principle repeatedly stated by the Constitutional Court and I shall confine myself to mentioning certain judgments on the subject. In judgment No 153 of 1985 it was established that the prohibition of reformazione in peius is now so well established that it is not even necessary to mention it in the provisions of law relating to remuneration: this is a general principle drawn up and constantly affirmed by the case law. Moreover, judgment No 271 of 2011, with reference to a regional rule that retroactively reduced an additional allowance for remuneration, considered that a substantial amendment of the previous legislation could not be carried out retroactively, affecting, in breach of Article 3 of the Constitution, in an unreasonable manner the legitimate expectation in legal security, which constitutes a fundamental element of the rule of law. The principle of non-reform of remuneration was last reiterated in judgment No 223 of 2012. Any reduction in the economic treatment of the public employment in the absence of a redefinition according to reasonableness of the obligations related to the employment relationship was considered unlawful. Therefore, changes in remuneration can only be considered reasonable if there is a change in that ratio. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) also intervened on this issue in its 2000 decisions, which considered that the employee's right of credit to remuneration agreed in the established forms, i.e. a future income for which the person can have a legitimate expectation of practicality, constitutes an asset to be protected under Article 1 of the Additional Protocol to the ECHR. These principles I have now mentioned apply to public administrations. The extension of the same within the order of the Senate and the Chamber must be carefully assessed by virtue of the constitutional autonomy granted to these bodies. Moreover, it is not possible to foresee the application of that decree-law to the economic treatment of the staff of the two Chambers and at the same time to safeguard the specificity of the work at the same time. However, the governing bodies of the Senate and the Chamber - the Permanent Representation for the questions of Senate staff and the Committee on the Affairs of the Chamber's Staff - have considered, on the assumption of the applicability of the provision referred to, that they must give rise to a comparison with the trade union organizations of the two branches of Parliament in order to assess how to transpose the provisions into their respective systems. I repeat what I said earlier about the effect of constitutional autonomy, noting, however, that transposition into national law cannot be excluded from the principles expressed by the Constitutional Court which, in judgment No 223 previously mentioned, considered tax relief to be a reduction in the economic treatment ordered unilaterally and untied by a redefinition of the counter-performance of work. I should like to point out here that the transposition of provisions which pose serious constitutional problems may have financial consequences at a later stage. In this regard I recall the story of article 9, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 which provided for the reduction, for the years 2011-2013, of 5 and 10 percent of the economic treatments exceeding certain amounts of the annual wages. In the past legislature, in my capacity as Quaestor of the Chamber, I pointed out that this provision was exposed for more than one profile to constitutional censorship and I advised, unheard of, not to proceed with transposition. Article 9, as is well known, has been declared unlawful by judgment No 223, which I mentioned earlier, and the sums collected had to be repaid on the basis of those provisions of which constitutional illegitimacy has been declared. Let us avoid the repetition of similar situations and, more generally, let us not be overwhelmed by the wind of demagogy. The Senate staff, at all levels, have been subjected to strict procedures of public competition at national level to access the role: at the time they passed these severe selections, they entered a career of which they were defined functions and responsibilities, but also the initial economic treatment and the relative pay curves. In addition to what has already been mentioned, it should be added that a worsening change in the economic treatment of employees also integrates a hypothesis of injury to the principle of legitimate expectations, which, as is well known, constitutes the development of the principle of good faith and has been affirmed in all areas of law. The principle of legitimate expectations has also become very important in the European Union's legal system in situations where a public entity is a party. Let us always remember that it is much easier to demolish than to build and on us, in the moment in which a passage so delicate in the life of our institutions appears on the horizon, it is the responsibility not to disperse that heritage of professionalism, dedication to the work and institutional spirit expressed by the employees of the Senate and - let me say, on the basis of my previous experience in the other branch of Parliament - of the House. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is a question of ensuring today the conditions for the new Senate to be able to count on staff of excellence tomorrow, all the more necessary at the start of the new functions provided for in the draft constitutional law today under consideration by the Chamber's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For this reason and with this wish, in renewing the thanks given to Senators Quaestors for the careful work they have done and for their constant commitment to solving the big and small problems of our administration, I shall be voting in favour of the budget documents on the agenda. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u76	Mr President, my brief speech, which does not have as its main objective an agenda, will focus on a subject which I have already discussed with the Quaestors, on which there is no specific measure and on which I am therefore merely recommending that we make a commitment. Since we do many symbolic acts, one important thing would be to allow the place where we go to eat food to be made with raw materials from our country's food chain, at least mainly. It is not only a matter of genuineness, but also of setting a good example, especially for what we consider one of the most important things we export, made in Italy in the agro-food sector. Not being, as I said, a specific measure, an agenda or another mode, I limit myself to a recommendation that I ask the quaestors senators to take into account, as a good example; even with this we can give meaning to the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Serra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u77	Senator Fucksia is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G45 and G56. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u78	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G45, we are asking, as is the case with the sitting of this House, for the publication on the Senate's website of the full reports of the meetings of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, as well as for the approval of the minutes of these meetings at the next sitting. We also call for the creation of a database of the deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors available for free and easy web consultation by citizens. Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013, in the matter of transparency, obliges all public administrations and their bodies to publish and render intelligible all documents and acts concerning their work, in order to facilitate widespread forms of control over the pursuit of institutional functions and the use of public resources. Only in this way can the citizen participate in the life of the country and verify whether the person who administers it does so with conscience and honesty. Advertising is the means to prevent corruptive phenomena in institutions, promoting, from our ruling class, the culture of integrity. Transparency is a condition for guaranteeing individual and collective freedoms, as well as civil, political and social rights, as well as the instrument that allows the implementation of the constitutional principles of impartiality, good performance, responsibility, effectiveness and efficiency, especially in the use of public resources, fundamental corollaries, these, to a loyal and integral service to citizens. We believe it is essential that transparency also finds citizenship in our palaces, especially with respect to those top administrative bodies in charge of managing the financial resources allocated by the State to the Senate for its operation. With regard to transparency, I would like to explain the G56 agenda for the chapter 'Contributions and subsidies'. This is an important figure of EUR 1,294,000, most of which is donated as contributions to cultural foundations and other third parties. In my opinion, this figure could be completely zeroed, with an immediate saving of 100%, but with this agenda, also in implementation of a principle of gradual reduction in expenditure (we are magnanimous), we are asking that the College of Senators Quaestors and the Presidency Council commit themselves to reducing this expenditure by at least 50%. An entry on all of this chapter, which applies for example: 81,500 euros are allocated to the Circle of Palazzo Madama. Frankly, I don't know where this Circle is, I don't know what it does, and I don't know who's part of it. I tried to search the Senate website and call, but I couldn't find out much. There is, however, a sort of secret site, accessible only by entering username and password, from which it is known that they can register senators, former senators (of course) and employees of the Senate, and that the activities of the Circle relate to culture, leisure, sport and tourism. Sports, leisure, tourism: it's a bit like saying "I do things, I see people, I turn, I move." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Senate must have been inspired by "Ecce Bombo" by Nanni Moretti in giving public money to the Circle of Palazzo Madama. Now, I repeat that I don't know much about this Circle except what I've been able to read from the site, but I'm sure of one thing: spending a similar amount to recreate senators and employees of the Senate is an inexcusable waste. Just as the EUR 420,000 that this institution spends on contributions to the Interparliamentary Union and the Mediterranean Union sound a waste, but above all the EUR 195,000 that we reserve for not better identified cultural foundations. You know me, ladies and gentlemen, I am for simplification and I do not want a certain detail, which, on the other hand, can be an increase in work and a further cost and I would therefore be content with the minimum. However, I would like to know at least what these cultural foundations are. This, however, is not known, for fantastic reasons of confidentiality. My fellow Members, the trust we have received is first and foremost rewarded by transparency. I translate: if we want the citizens who have taken us to sit on these scrabbles to regain a shred of trust in the institutions, why don't we get the list of foundations that receive money from the Senate? I am sure that at that point, some scissors can come out and maybe the sums saved can be used for purposes that would certainly have higher priority.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u79	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u80	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to approve the 2014 budget, which could not be examined in July, as envisaged by the Presidency, for other urgency in this House and for a different decision of the Conference of Leaders. I would like to say straight away that I welcome the draft budget before us and that it is a rigorous budget, based on the reduction of expenditure - as we have been told by the quaestors - on the reorganisation and transparency of procedures, as indicated by the Presidency Council and the President in particular. This is a development that I could certainly call virtuous, with a substantial decrease in expenditure compared to previous years: we are working on this issue as a whole. So, as has already emerged from the introductory speech and then also from what Senator Pegorer mentioned, I believe that the path we have taken is useful and that it is necessary to proceed in this direction. We have done so with balance and in the typical ways of an institution that I would say is the highest in the State and from this point of view I believe there can be satisfaction on our part, also with regard to the Presidency Council, which is moving in this direction, an organ of which I am honoured to be a member. The trend is therefore that of reducing spending, in line with the indications that come from the country and that have been well reflected in our budgetary choices; a result of which I am satisfied and which the Group of the Democratic Party shares and from this point of view I believe that the work done has been excellent, precisely in the perspective of achieving certain results. What we have spent, colleagues, has been complex months. We have been asked for a great deal of proof and I believe that this is closely linked to what I am going to say about the Senate budget and our organization. It has been months in which the Senate of the Republic as a whole has had to reconsider its role in the light of constitutional reform and we - we know - have been intelligent protagonists of the change of this institution. I am referring to overcoming the perfect bicameralism and therefore to a new interpretation and a new way of thinking this Senate, which however is a House that remains and has precise and very important functions. It's a new Senate to think about and launch. Hence the analysis, which we have carried out in recent months during the debate that we have carried out, of the activities carried out, of the new structures, of the new functions, of the new composition of the future Senate. The next legislature will see different people here. When the path of institutional reform is completed, we will see here regional presidents, regional councillors and mayors, institutional experiences different from those currently represented here, and there will be new structures. However, the path has now begun and the Senate as a whole, in its deep structure, made up of its staff, will have to be able to respond to the choices that politics, which we, senators and senators, have made expressing our vote. I am sure that he will do so with the usual pride and with the enviable professionalism of his staff, a staff so adapted to his role, a specialized and I would say proud staff, which appears at all times adequate certainly, but also very aware of the privilege that is represented by performing their functions in one of the highest places of democratic representation. This is also the richness of this place and I believe that each of us, in our relationship with all of them, with these employees, with the officials and managers, has realized this. This place, which is so dear to those who have been carrying out their activities here for years, has become immediately very dear to those who, like me, have been here for a single legislature, to many of us who had a different experience, to other public administrations perhaps, who here could not fail to notice the difference in terms of efficiency and recognized excellence of the staff who deal with us and overall of this structure. We have been able to see an excellent organization; of course, everything can always be improved, but an organization like this is not easy to find: extreme attention to the needs of senators in terms of efficiency of services that are necessary to us to carry out our mandate; services certainly at the forefront regarding documentation, assistance for legislative activity, but also support services for the maintenance of the structure. A leadership of high professionalism, ready - we have all noticed - to respond in times I would say impossible, President, to the demands that the convulsive parliamentary life requires. So what's going on here is a very responsible job - we notice it minute by minute - and I take this opportunity to really thank everyone, the management and all the staff for what they show us at all times. We must start from here to think about the way and also the respect and delicacy with which we must intervene: this is our task, certainly the Presidency Council, but also of all the senators and all the senators as a whole, because it is clear that the restructuring that we politically wanted requires a great deal of attention in order not to devastate or in any case not to destroy - which nobody obviously wants to do - a balance, a competence and an excellence that this institution certainly has and that it clearly qualifies at national level, but also in comparison with other parliaments at European level and not only. It is precisely in these days that the proposal of both the Chamber and Senate Councils is being discussed on the restructuring of the remuneration structure of the employees in service. This is certainly a sensitive issue but to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. For this reason, I would like to thank my colleagues who are dealing with the trade union negotiations, starting with the vice-president, Fedeli, and all those who are directly following this very delicate affair. We are trying, according to a choice also strongly desired by the President, that we as members of the Presidency Council have supported and fully share, to respond to the needs that come from the country of adjustment and rebalancing of salaries within the public administration; we are in this vein. The negotiations in progress certainly cause moments of tension, some stiffening - it is normal - but the objective of fairness and at the same time the recognition and enhancement of professionalism is very clear among the members of the Board of Directors, i.e. those who directly have to deal with this. I want to reiterate here the greatest willingness on our part to listen so as to find shared solutions, which nevertheless eliminate no longer sustainable privileges in respect of history and the prerogatives developed over the years by each of those who work here. A complex work, which has rightly been carried out in consultation with the Chamber of Deputies, because it is clear that this is what it is about: the strategic objective is to give a unique role to the staff of the Chamber and Senate within services that we tend to unify or at least integrate. Unification is the ultimate goal that will ensure savings and efficiency. We must respond to the needs dictated by the economic crisis and the demands that come to us loudly from Europe, and not only, to simplify our public apparatus. We must therefore be part of this process and we must be in it and see ourselves again. Of course, duplication, which we observe here as well as in the Chamber of Deputies every day, of services of all kinds, is no longer sustainable; therefore, the idea of being able to unite them between the House and the Senate is a strong, high objective; a strategic objective, on which much is being worked, which is not easy - we have seen it - anything else. In fact, given the autonomy of the two rooms and their ancient history, it is certainly not so normal to go towards a new perspective, but certainly this is the effort as well as a new challenge that we are called to pursue. This is the effort, the challenge that both the Councils of Presidency and the executives of the Senate and the Chamber have called for: no hesitations or strongholds, no maintenance of established situations, but a firm openness to change, innovation of processes and functions. Hard? Yes, of course very difficult, Mr President - it is a matter of giving up what we are used to - but the transformation of Italy also goes through the transformation of Parliament and we are once again the protagonists of this change. We have to try and we have to get the result. We must, first of all, be an example to the other administrations of the State precisely because we are the highest institutions in the State. We must not be stopped by old and reassuring customs, but we must pursue a more agile organization that does not involve duplication, as I said before. I would like to give an example of computer science, but it can also be widely used and widely used in other sectors. Computer science, in particular, given its transversal nature, is a central element for this kind of perspective and strategy. The unification of services must move from a modern and technologically advanced infrastructure. It is clear that all services, precisely because they are between two different rooms, will have to have a powerful computer infrastructure, modern, networked and technologically advanced. So, for this, perhaps, we Senate can really be a guide because the Senate on this has a consolidated tradition that is now recognized at European level for decades. We are also recognized outside the borders of Europe, in the exchanges that have taken place between our Parliament - the Senate in particular - and other countries in other parts of the world. Innovation has been pursued over the years with an avant-garde service that other parliaments did not have. We have already set an example. It is now a matter of continuing on this path, but in order to do this it is necessary for the House of Deputies to share systems and infrastructures with common investments and, above all, with this great category of thought that must become common use, now shared, that is the concept of reuse: those who have already done something, especially from the computer point of view, do not make it refer to someone else in the same way; let us try to use what is done in places as similar as the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies are. From this point of view, we have a very strong innovation and I thank for the professionalism of the Computer Service of the Senate; I make this example even if I could make others, precisely for the transversality and the infrastructural necessity of the computer. So it is clear that we should also have the opportunity and the strength - I hope - to make sure that the House moves in this perspective with the necessary conviction. In this budget strong investments are proposed in this area, but this will certainly allow us to maintain our primacy: a primacy that we make available, first of all in the Chamber of Deputies, but not only; we could go far: also other structures and administrations of the State, starting from the Ministries, could use much more than what has been developed here regarding, for example, the formation of laws and all the software that has been developed to make available to senators and, therefore, ministers and joints within the various Ministries, all the information necessary to make better decisions and above all to simplify the number of rules. This would finally lead to a process of legislative simplification. We are truly ashamed at international level of the excessive production of standards and also of the inability to know what the rules are in force. In fact, it has never been strongly directed towards real simplification, including by ensuring that all the ministries require the different heads of the legislative offices, for their area of competence, to simplify by establishing the rules to be repealed. In this respect, I therefore believe that an excellent result could be achieved, but this will be the reason for meetings that we will have with the Presidency of the Council and with its Legislative Office to give this impetus to all the Ministries. We already have software here in the Senate that can serve this purpose and we are ready to make them available. Therefore, the prospect of interoperability and infrastructure sharing, of Chamber and Senate, could be part of a really more complex and articulated strategy, but already ready, that sees a progressive overcoming of the current duplications both in relation to the basic services (e-mail or the various governance services of the other apparatuses), and in relation to the software applications developed internally or acquired externally. Let's think about the library, the archives and other areas, such as unified databases, press agencies or reviews: on all this you can find something important to do. The example that I wanted to bring serves me to say that here all the services could be unified with the House, from the basic ones to the more evolved ones, connected to all the administration and management of the Rooms. Our Presidency Council is very cooperative; I hope that the same will happen within the governing body of the House: we would thus favour the process of spending review and give the signal that the Italians expect from us. It is a signal that we have already given with clarity and I thank the Quaestors who have done this work and who have allowed us to move in a serious direction of spending review and cost reduction, which is what everyone expects from us. [[Applause from Senator Commissioner De Poli and Senator Ghedini Rita.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u81	The joint debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the joint debate on documents in other sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u84	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I will be very brief as we are quite out of time. I am delighted that you are here because I believe that the President of the Senate must absolutely help the senators to enforce their activities and powers. I have recently heard a Minister declare that an agenda is not denied to anyone. Well, we, in addition to the agenda, often present questions, which are acts of inspection union and respect the dignity of the role of the Member of Parliament. In this regard, I would ask you to give an authoritative speech to the Environment Minister, Mr Galletti, who refuses to answer two questions, of which I am first a signatory, the first of which is Question 4-02556, with which I asked him to pay attention to a fact which has then regularly occurred, namely the killing of the Daniza bear in Trentino. I then presented a new question, the 3-01209, to get news of what happened and what the Ministry wants to do, but for over twelve days I have not received an answer. Why do I do this sitting-end surgery? I intervene because, as colleagues have also heard from the press, the emergency concerns the survival and life of the two cubs of the Daniza bear, who are not self-sufficient and do not know exactly how to get away with it, who cannot go hibernating without the mother and are exposed to certain death without a rescue intervention. What do I ask in the question and what do I hope the Minister will do? The Minister must respect the law that considers the wildlife to be the property of the State: therefore, he cannot delegate it to the provincial police of Trento, but he must urge an authoritative intervention by the State Forestry Corps. Man is the master of everything, except for some things, one of them is meteorology (not much at the arrival of the cold), while the other is death (not much even at the death of these bears). [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u87	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have not put a question to Mr Galletti, but I cannot fail to point out that the delay with which he is replying or trying not to answer Mr Cirinna's question creates a further controversy in a situation where polemics should be quickly abandoned. While on the one hand, in fact, the motivations and heartfelt questions posed by my colleague Cirinna are all true, on the other hand, it is also true that an important project such as the one at the head of the Province of Trento, which has allowed 50 bears to find hospitality in the territory of Trentino, has moments of crisis linked to the fact that the number of these bears is now high, positively elevated, we say, but certainly this causes tensions or determines situations of difficulty that, instead, should be absolutely resolved. If on the one hand we see that the Province of Trento has certainly not handled this matter well, on the other, we can only thank the Province of Trento for what it does and for having taken charge - unique in Italy - of such an important project. We are talking about a project that is certainly widely funded and supported (more than 6 million euros committed), which, however, is not only useful for bears, as everyone knows: it is not necessary to be particularly expert in order to grasp - even an inexperienced one like me can not fail to understand it - that point of balance between the fauna and the system, and therefore the great eco-sustainable system that these bears bear witness in our territory. I'm sure the Province of Trento did its best to deal with this situation. It has not been possible, but today, please, Mr Galletti should not also add controversy and confusion to this situation. I therefore call on the Minister to answer the question, as a good institutional etiquette, and to take action to ensure that these small bears, who have been orphaned by Mother Bear, do not die of carelessness and the failure to adopt a timely solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-316.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.17 p.m.
