ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Ironic applause from Senator Morra]] Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u10	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask you a moment of attention. Today we remember the 51st anniversary of the sad anniversary of the Vajont catastrophe. Today, as a Belluno, being close to those places, I feel the duty to remind the 1,910 victims of the blind selfishness of men who have put the economic interest, the profit to respect for human life. At 22.39 on October 9, 1963, a flood wave of more than 200 meters high, caused by the 260 million cubic meters of rock slipping from Mount Toc in the artificial Vajont invaded, swept an entire community: children, women and men, all innocent victims. Devastation and pain for a population and a territory that, even today, raising its gaze, looks at that intact dam overhanging the silence of memory, of the thousand questions, of pain. Last year, in this House, I asked the institutions for a sign of concrete respect as there was and there is an infinite pain for those white tombstones that, aligned in the monumental cemetery of Fortogna, in the Longaronese... [[Brusio]] Madam President, I would like to ask you to be quiet, because I believe it is due to these people. Otherwise, I refuse to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u11	Senator, you're absolutely right. I ask my colleagues to be quiet and to turn down the volume of their chatter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u12	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Repeat. Last year, in this House, I asked the institutions for a sign of concrete respect for this infinite pain, for those white tombstones that, aligned in the monumental cemetery of Fortogna, in the Longaronese, lead us to the endless list of names of men, women and children carved inside the chapel. For that cemetery I had requested the recognition of an annual contribution, presenting an amendment to the law of stability, necessary to preserve with the dignity and respect due the memory of our deaths to the survivors who still mourn them. The amendment, however, was, as always, unfortunately not considered. I will return to it, because the government must fill its absence, it must have a minimum of respect for my people: 1,910 people died, of which the majority in the municipalities of Longarone, Codissago, Castellavazzo, Erto and Casso and 200 from other municipalities in Belluno. I do not want to make controversy, but, last year, on the 50th anniversary, in words, the representatives of the institutions present at the official celebrations, from President Grasso, to the former President of the Council Letta (but I also address the current President of the Council Renzi), had given their willingness to find the resources, few, requested, but still nothing to date. Not even the invitation to the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano to go to honor the places of memory, in order to bring those excuses that still too few have felt the duty to express today, has been answered. I turn to the institutions, to those who represent them, with that force of silent pain that distinguishes us mountain people: do not forget, do not forget us, and have respect for those who have suffered this enormous tragedy and injustice because you no longer have to feel that sense of shame that at present too many have yet to endure. A minute of silence is due, but I also ask for a concrete commitment because to date silence is no longer enough. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u13	The Presidency - but I believe I interpret the sentiments of the whole House - is associated with the memory of the victims of the Vajont tragedy. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u14	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative is convened on Wednesday 15 October 2014, at 8.30 a.m., at the Senate of the Republic to proceed to the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1119, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 734, 845, 903 and 1067. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u16	Madam President, Mrs Senator and Senators, the draft law we are examining comes from the House Act No 925, approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 17 October 2013 and assigned to the Justice Commission on 30 October 2013. This is a set of rules which amends Law No 47 of 8 February 1948, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the matter of defamation, defamation by the media or by other means of distribution, in the matter of the plaintiff's injury and conviction. The measure addresses the sensitive issue of defamation through the press, seeking to combine the need to protect freedom of information with the right of the citizen not to be defamed. On the one hand, there is the right to freedom of expression and criticism and, on the other hand, the need to ensure, always and in any case, effective protection of the honour of persons offended by the news or slanderous judgment. Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) states that "1. Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion, freedom to receive or communicate information or ideas without interference by public authorities and without border limits. This Article shall not prevent States from subjecting broadcasting, cinematographic and television undertakings to an authorisation scheme. 2, the exercise of these freedoms, as it entails duties and responsibilities, may be subject to the formalities, conditions, restrictions or sanctions which are provided for by law and which constitute necessary measures in a democratic society to national security, territorial integrity, public security, the defence of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, the protection of the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the disclosure of confidential information or to ensure the authority and impartiality of the judiciary. In its case-law, the European Court of Human Rights has always stressed the role played by the press, for its role in reporting to the general public on events of interest, and has considered sanctions against journalists as interference in the exercise of that right. An interference that becomes legitimate only under three conditions: that it is provided for by law; that it is a necessary means of pursuing legitimate aims in the context of a democratic society; that it is proportionate to the fact. The right to freedom of expression of thought and freedom of the press and the news, enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution, can therefore be exercised even when it results in an injury to the reputation of others, provided that certain limits are respected: the truth of the published news, that is, the correspondence between the facts happened and those narrated, in the social usefulness of information, in relation to the current and the relevance of the facts narrated and the need for information to be maintained within the limits of objectivity. Only the lack of these requirements revives in all its fullness the right to the honor of the individual, making illicit the manifestation of thought and integrating the extremes of the crime of defamation. In its judgment of 2 April 2009, the Court of Strasbourg, condemning Greece to the compensation of a journalist, considered that prison sentences are not, in principle, compatible with freedom of expression because prison has a deterrent effect on the freedom of journalists to inform with negative effects on the community which in turn has the right to receive information. The Court also pointed out that the provision of a prison sentence imposed on an infringement committed in the field of the press is not compatible with the freedom of journalistic expression guaranteed by Article 10 of the Convention, except in exceptional circumstances, in particular where other fundamental rights have been seriously harmed, such as the spread of a speech of hatred and incitement to violence. The draft law in question essentially confirms the system already voted in the Chamber, excluding the prison sentence and preparing a series of instruments aimed at restoring the truth in an effective and adequate manner, with the new discipline of correction. The correction, under the conditions described in the draft law, allows the non-criminality of the author and of those responsible for the offense. The Justice Commission has brought together the examination of a number of other draft laws and a petition, which is proposed to be incorporated into the text of the above-mentioned bill, which has also been supplemented by significant additions. Article 1 contains amendments to the aforementioned Press Act. The salient feature introduced in Article 1 of Law No 47 of 1948 is that the provisions of this legislation are also extended to online newspapers registered in accordance with Article 5, limited to content published, transmitted or networked. The application latitude of the law extends, moreover, also to the newspapers broadcasting. This general rule, which reaches the Assembly of the Senate in the text identical to that adopted by the other branch of Parliament, is followed by a rewriting of Article 8 of the aforementioned law which concerns the correction. Corrigendum to be published free of charge without comment, without reply, without title and with clear reference to the article deemed defamatory. The complexity of this issue, on which the Commission has reached a point of understanding, can be explained by reference to three main points. Firstly, there is an express reference to cases where declarations or corrections must not be published and this happens when they have content liable to criminal indictment or are documentaryly false. Secondly, it has been established that the Director or the person responsible has an obligation to inform the author of the article or service of the request for rectification. In this way, the correction procedure (and its consequences, such as the condition of non-penalty) can also be used by the offender in cases of inertia of the director himself. Thirdly, that obligation shall be established only where the article being corrected is signed. Point (b) has introduced significant changes in the way in which online news headlines are corrected. Here, too, the exception to the obligation to publish declarations and corrections is reiterated if they are documentaryly false. The changes made by the Commission to the framework for the correction for non-periodical printing are also of minor importance. Adds completeness to the protection system the explicit reference to the case where it is not possible to reprint or re-release the printout or the publication on the website. In this case, the corrected publication must be made in a national newspaper. In the course of the examination in the Commission, two rules were inserted concerning respectively the request for correction, which must be accepted in any case by the judge when it was falsely attributed a determined fact that constitutes an offence, and the provision of the communication to the prefect for the purpose of imposing the administrative penalty in case of failure or incomplete compliance with the order of publication. It was also considered to include a further period to link the imposition of such sanctions with the communication to the professional order for the adoption of the determinations of competence. In the matter of damages, the Commission has not amended the new Article 11-bis of the Press Act (introduced by the Chamber of Deputies), while it has limited itself to remodelling, with a slight mitigation, the penalties for defamation contained in the new Article 13 (also introduced by the Chamber of Deputies). The Chamber, in fact, has merged in this only article - repealing Article 12 of Law No. 47 of 1948 - the various sanctions relating to defamation by press, for which the penalty of imprisonment is eliminated. An amendment approved in the Commission must also be introduced with a specific cause of non-perpetuality whereby the offender is not punishable when he has requested the publication of the denial or correction requested by the offensed party. Coming on the changes made to the penal code, which constitute the second qualifying part of the entire bill, the Commission has tended to confirm the establishment of Article 57 of the penal code, as reworded by the Chamber of Deputies, with regard to crimes committed by the media, broadcasting or by other means of dissemination. However, the title of responsibility to which the Director or Deputy Director responsible for the newspaper, periodical or newspaper of various kinds is responsible has been specified for crimes committed by such means of dissemination where the unlawful act is a consequence of the violation of the obligation to supervise the content of the publication. The choice to make it clear that this form of responsibility is assumed as guilt seems preferable to the idea of maintaining a certain regime of ambiguity. The addition of a second paragraph, to the text of Article 57 of the penal code, seemed particularly useful, since it attributed responsibility for the crimes committed by the media to the director or vice director responsible for the daily newspaper, periodical or newspaper magazine in case the writings or circulations are not signed. As regards the offences referred to in Articles 594 and 595 of the Criminal Code, respectively in the matter of slander and defamation, no changes have been made to the new wordings prepared by the other branch of Parliament. I remember, moreover, that the law 28 April 2014, n. 67, has entrusted to the Government the delegation for the decriminalization of some minor crimes, among which the one referred to in article 594, that is, the iniuria. A last but very important novelty, introduced by the Commission, lies in Article 3 of the draft law, which brings further measures to protect the slandered or injured person in honour or reputation. These are provisions with certain complex application aspects, but for the first time they regulate the right of the interested party to request the removal from websites and search engines of defamatory content or personal data processed in violation of the law. Two specific paragraphs govern the right of the judge to request the removal order or the prohibition of dissemination, as well as the right to exercise these means of protection in favour of the heirs, in the event of the death of the person concerned. Finally, the amendments to Articles 427 and 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are confirmed in the text in accordance with the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I shall conclude by highlighting two issues on which the intervention of the legislator, in my opinion, is urgent and which have only been touched upon by the debate in the Commission on this draft law. The first concerns the intimidating use of justice. It is a well-known phenomenon in the field of information that of the fearful lawsuit or requests for abnormous compensation for the alleged damage suffered. The Commission did not consider it appropriate to accept the amending proposals, which were designed to penalise the recklessness of civil or criminal proceedings against the author of the article. However, a more comprehensive and comprehensive reflection on this problem of our justice, which is not limited to the information sector alone, is now indisputable. The other theme is the web, the network, an extremely complex world, but that cannot remain nobody's land and escape every rule. Perhaps my colleague, Senator Capacchione, will have the opportunity to talk about some episodes of which she was, despite her, protagonist and victim. We all want to protect the full freedom of the network, but at the same time we believe that the citizen must also be protected, whether it is a journalist who tells the facts of which she is aware, or perhaps a little girl wounded by a perverse game of insults defamatory in a social and who decides to put an end to its existence. Not today, not here, but it is time for a serious and mature debate and a law that regulates that world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u17	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u18	Madam President, the relationship between freedom of the press and the right of every citizen to protect their privacy and good repute is among the most complicated in terms of the necessary balance to be found between the interests of the individual and the collective. I am speaking of collective interest because it is our own Constitutional Charter, in the initial part, in particular Article 21, which indicates the freedom of the press and the freedom of expression of one's thought, with the word, the writing and any other means of dissemination, as fundamental rights, not only for the protection of the individual, but as institutional principles that must be guaranteed by the State and by each institution. Now, we have tried repeatedly in recent years, even during this parliamentary term, with diversified proposals that sought to find the right balance between these two constitutionally protected interests and which, often, can also conflict. In past legislation, we have come to the point of approving a new and reforming regulation of the criminal code which dates back many years, and we have, moreover, always stopped in front of us and those which in some cases have been defined as unjustified and unjustified resistance within the parliamentary classrooms. We know that freedom of the press is one of the gradients that are used to measure the so-called degree of civilization of a country, and, if we are to stand by what the international organizations that have repeatedly intervened also towards Italy (or to condemn it or to urge it to regulatory changes), we realize that the degree of freedom of the press within our country is certainly not among the highest in the Western world, in particular of modern democracies. In fact, there are many interventions and the demands that have been made in this respect from several quarters. First of all, I would like to mention the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the United Nations Special Rapporteur, Article 19 and, last but not least, the Committee to protect journalist in New York. All of them represented the need for intervention, first of all, to eliminate the provision of prison for journalists and freedom of the press, but above all to adapt Italian legislation to European standards. It is indisputable that the bill that is presented at the examination of this Senate, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading, represents a step forward especially because finally the forecast of the prison for journalists is cancelled: this I would say responds precisely to the need for a change of legal and social step. However, there are other challenges and other points that should be addressed and that, as the rapporteur has also pointed out, can be discussed in this House. Before moving on to two specific indications, I remember that, about a couple of years ago, we had found ourselves at the last burning case, incandescent in certain moments, the case Sallusti, that re-proposed to our attention the story, precisely, of the prison for journalists. Well, the President of the Republic had to intervene in 2012 to resolve that case because, once again, Parliament had not been able to give an urgent and consistent solution to international demands and calls. I recall that in that case, with an extra-ordinam measure, the power of grace was used by switching the prison sentence into a fine and, at the same time as the use of this extraordinary power of the President of the Republic, there was a request to Parliament to amend the rules on defamation without delay and especially taking into account those which were European appeals. Now, this text comes to us from the House of Deputies, which we have widely discussed and addressed in the Commission among all political forces together with the Government, but we are convinced that there is still a chance to take a further step. I shall confine myself to giving an indication, in the wake of what the rapporteur said a moment ago, of the fact that at this moment perhaps it becomes fundamental, that of the reckless quarrels, both in the civil sector and in the criminal sector. Before moving on to this illustration, however, I believe that we should point out an aspect that is put to us by the international bodies that I recalled, that is, the need to think whether it is really the case, in the matter of freedom of the press and of defamation, to completely eliminate the criminal aspects: this not in order not to give protection to the citizen or to those who may feel defamed or unjustly insulted, but to bring this matter back to the right contour and to give a fair balance. In this sense, the proposal was presented to entrust the Government with a delegation to eliminate the crime of defamation, without prejudice to civil liability and the consequent compensation of the damage according to certain principles that are clearly illustrated in the first proposed amendment. I realize that our society, our Parliament, has not yet reached the level of deciding on such a peremptory, so clear change, by eliminating the criminal prospect of the crime of defamation. I remember, however, that this Senate, as well as the entire Parliament, only a few months ago (last year), voted, with a large majority, a law that concerned the criminal system as a whole and contained an invitation to the Government, with delegation, to decriminalize a whole series of crimes. This would be one of the ways to achieve a rationalization of our penal system, which is still based on the setting of the code Rocco-Mussolini and which would be time to bring to a higher level of civilization. Now, I repeat, I realize that the step I propose is perhaps longer than the leg, because I call on this Senate and Parliament to delete the criminal aspects of this matter, but I think it is time to bring Parliament also to a debate on this subject which has been taking place for a long time in the social and civil spheres. Basically, and in general, it is a question of trying to eliminate criminal matters for certain situations, concentrating the criminal interest of the state, the law, the police and the judiciary on the real problems that generate alarm of a social nature within our State. The other point that I would simply like to mention was mentioned in the final part of the speech by our rapporteur and refers to a situation that has been constantly occurring, for years, in the country and which concerns in depth the freedom of the press, especially journalists, and those who work for small newspapers in particular, that a little for the whole of our peninsula, when scandals and serious news events occur that may have to do with one or the other powerful, with one or the other political force, do not allow themselves to be intimidated beforehand and, precisely in order to fulfil their duty to communicate and to inform, run serious risks not only of a physical nature - as we have sometimes seen because some journalists have also been killed - but also from a procedural, civilistic and criminal point of view. Sometimes, unfortunately in some cases many times, journalists have been intimidated, especially in the territorial press, who wanted to talk about great scandals, perhaps even in advance of the investigation of investigators, of the judiciary and have been sent between head and neck quotations in the civil court with claims for damages for millions of euros or even for criminal proceedings with requests for arrest. I mention only one case that in this period is, so to speak, to the honours, or rather to the dishonors of the chronicle: what concerns the consortium Venezia Nuova and the scandal MOSE. In this particular case there have been journalists from the local press but also national journalists who have been quoted for millions of euros in an attempt to intimidate them. I believe, on the other hand, that those who write true and found facts should be given a medal and should not be subjected to civil quarrels or reckless lawsuits precisely in order to protect that freedom of the press of which I said at the beginning and to find a balance between the right to think and write and the protection of the goodness of the people. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u19	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is part of a framework of necessary interventions in relation to changing time: the new technologies, the new methods of communication and information require action to regulate situations previously unknown to the legislator of 1948 and which are now specifically identified by the new legislation. I am referring, in particular, to the online newspapers that have long been waiting to be regulated. The freedom of manifestation of thought, first and foremost protected by our Constitutional Charter in Article 21, cannot fail to take into account the protection of the person and his reputation, a legal asset protected by the criminal rules referred to in Articles 594 and 595 of the Criminal Code, as amended by this bill. One of the most novel features of this measure is the abolition of prison sentences for crimes of defamation and injustice. The bill, in fact, amends Article 13 of the law on the press bringing up to a maximum of 10,000 euros the financial penalty provided for this crime, eliminating, at the same time, the prison sentence previously provided. This will, of course, bring our legislation into line with most mature and liberal democracies in relation to crimes of opinion. Not only that: the case law of the European Court of Human Rights also requires us to change this. In fact, according to the European Court of Human Rights, the provision of a prison sentence for such offences is incompatible with the Constitutional Decree. I refer to the judgment of 2 April 2009 (Kydonis v Greece). The Court of Strasbourg, condemning Greece to the compensation of a journalist, considered that prison sentences are not, in principle, compatible with freedom of expression because prison has a deterrent effect on the freedom of journalists to inform, with negative effects on the community which in turn has the right to receive information, stressing that the provision of a prison sentence imposed for an infringement committed in the press is not compatible with the freedom of journalistic expression guaranteed by Article 10 of the Convention, except in exceptional circumstances, in particular, when other fundamental rights have been seriously harmed, such as, for example, the spread of a speech of hatred and incitement to violence. According to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, every person has the right to freedom of expression and this right includes freedom of opinion and the freedom to receive or communicate information or ideas without any interference by public authorities and without border limits. This Article shall not prevent States from subjecting broadcasting, cinematographic or television undertakings to an authorisation scheme. The exercise of these freedoms, as it entails duties and responsibilities, may be subject to the formalities, conditions, restrictions or sanctions provided for by law and which constitute necessary measures, in a democratic society, to national security, territorial integrity or public security, to the defence of order and to the prevention of crimes, to the protection of health or morals, to the protection of the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the disclosure of confidential information or to guarantee the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority. My speech, however, is intended to be a speech in favour of the very great work done by my colleagues in the Commission. It is a praise to them who, on the text coming from the House, have introduced important novelties, such as overcoming the ambiguities on the title of responsibility to be attributed to the responsible director who has not carried out his supervisory work on the published articles. The reference is to the amendment of Article 57 of the penal code and to the overcoming of the so-called ambiguities that had led to various doctrinal and legal disputes. I wanted to conclude by saying that if the extension of Article 1 of this draft law on the application of the law on the press also to online newspapers and broadcasting is something that had to be done for some time, it is now equally necessary to focus our attention on another similar front: I refer, in particular, to the draft law on cyberbullying - the bill No 1261, of which I am a signatory - which will be under discussion in this House in the next few days and which will introduce measures to combat a phenomenon that increasingly exploits social networks as a privileged way of offending young victims. Because of the origin, sexual orientation and anything else that sees diversity as a negative element rather than a wealth, many teenagers become victims of insults that result in psychological prostration, depression and, in the most serious cases (as the news has unfortunately made us known), also in suicide. In confirming support for this measure on defamation, I hope, in conclusion, that measures against cyberbullying will also become the law of the state and, therefore, the heritage of all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u22	Madam President, the text that we are going to debate and vote on today has been extensively explained by the rapporteur, both in her basic structure and in the changes made by the work of the Senate Justice Commission. I will therefore not go back to the fundamental criteria of this rule. I shall confine myself to a reflection on the role that such a law can play in the difficult relationship that, several times, even in this mandate, we have had to discuss between freedom of expression and the need to protect from possible abuses of this freedom who can become its victim. I would like to start by quoting Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which states that "everyone has the right to freedom of expression" (which includes freedom of opinion and the freedom to receive or communicate information or ideas) without interference from public authorities and without border limits. It is a principle of fundamental juridical civilization, which speaks in a particular way to those countries where freedom of expression is conculcated by a power of the State that prevents the free deployment of opinions, political positions and cultural debate within the borders of a country. After that, the European Convention on Human Rights enters into the substance of what must necessarily be an antibody to the abuse of freedom of expression, if there can be harm to others. He then goes on to the second paragraph saying that the exercise of these freedoms, as it entails duties and responsibilities, may be subject to the formalities, conditions, restrictions or sanctions provided for by law and that they constitute necessary measures, in a democratic society, to national security, territorial integrity or public security, to the defence of order and to the prevention of crimes, to the protection of health or morals, to the protection of the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the disclosure of confidential information or to guarantee the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority. It is therefore a series of limitations; but, especially with regard to the issue of freedom of the press, therefore the free expression of thought through the communication bodies, not only paper, but also radio and film, the Convention lays down exceptions only in some cases, strongly defined and strongly motivated. In particular, the exceptional circumstances which are enunciated by the European Convention on Human Rights are the injury of other fundamental rights and the spread of a speech of hatred or incitement to violence. The Commission's work on this proposal, which detains the crime of defamation meritoriously, is in this difficult quest for a balance, for a reason which has previously been enucleated by the rapporteur, namely that the prison sentence would be an unbearable deterrent to the free expression of freedom of the press. I would like to mention, for example, the case of France, which, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and the European Court of Human Rights, lays down only financial penalties, fines for defamation, except where it has a directly discriminatory content, i.e. concerning race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or the condition of the victim's disability. Thus, the French law clearly distinguishes only a pecuniary sanction for defamation in the broad sense, but it intervenes in a specific way where discrimination is imposed on the basis of the victim's personal conditions. There is another aspect to be highlighted and another important element of balance, which, with the proposal today to the attention of the Senate, has been endeavoured to find, in addition to that between freedom of expression and the defence of the citizen from a damage resulting from an abuse of freedom of expression: it is the question of the relationship between the limiting intervention of freedom of expression, in the exceptional cases provided for by the law, and that relatively new reality, not on the cultural level, but from the point of view of regulatory interventions, which is the world of the Internet. Until a few years ago, if we were talking about freedom of the press, next to paper, we were just talking to the maximum about broadcasting and film. Today we know that the network has become the privileged place, enormously majoritarian, for any form of expression and communication. It is therefore necessary to include - as we are doing - a specific reference to freedom of the press through the Internet and the limitations of this freedom within this legal provision. On this, however, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take note of a limit of the legislative action carried out so far, in the sense that the regulatory actions that have so far concerned the sphere of the Internet have been specific, fragmented, fragmented regulatory actions that do not take into account the great challenge that this new phenomenon poses, also from the regulatory point of view. Today we intervene with a limiting element of the freedom of expression of the network, when we insert, within a bill against the extension of defamation, also the possibility of acting on the web. Let me say, however, that we do it in an approximate way compared to the objective, in the sense that, for example, our forecast of eliminating from the web a defamatory content, detrimental to the honor of a person, may perhaps approach the objective, but with great difficulty will succeed in achieving it, given the character difficult to identify and arginable of the very fast dissemination of information on the Internet and the rapid rebound of information between one site and another. In any case, we are intervening with an element of limitation and therefore it will be very important that Parliament, acting on a meritorious basis, with limited action in relation to the expression on the Internet, should be concerned at the same time with addressing this reality, trying to create favourable legislation so that this instrument can express its potential at the highest level. Therefore, with today's proposal we are going to address a number of very important issues that will come back to the action of our Parliament, with the awareness that there is still a lot of work to be done to better define those two nodes I mentioned earlier: I am referring to the relationship between freedom of expression and its limitation in the event of damage to third parties and the relationship between freedom of expression on the Internet and the necessary placement of the web between those communication tools on which the norm must place limits. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u23	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about libel. Well, just a few days ago an important political exponent of this majority declared, precisely speaking of defamation, the following (I literally quote): We are not going on the edge of the abyss for Article 18. We go there for the Boffo method, because if one says his, he must be able to say it without his dignity being removed. The author of this statement is Mr Bersani and the recipient of the charge is the President of the Renzi Council, that is, the person who controls, directly and indirectly, all the information that passes daily through the three main channels of the RAI. As many of you well remember, RAI 1 was the absolute domain of Christian Democracy, RAI 2 of the Socialist Party and RAI 3 of the PC-DS. Now all these three channels are controlled by him. And by "he" I certainly do not mean Berlusconi, but his emulation, Renzi, who passes daily on the three main RAI networks and, with the Nazarene pact, has guaranteed the alignment to his political line also of the main Italian private television network. An extraordinary firepower. And you can actually see it. This weekend the votes for the Provinces will take place but, if you ask the Italians, they will reply that it is not true and it is not possible, because the Provinces have been repealed by Renzi. You have lowered the penalties to the mobsters or, worse, politicians who get elected through mafia agreements, in the substantial silence of the media. You're turning the self-recycling law upside down, and not even a self-recyclist could have done better. And still silence on TV. Candidate to the Constitutional Court a "wise" is forgetful about the State-Mafia negotiation which, however, well recalls that the Severino law is unconstitutional. But he only remembers it when it's applied to Berlusconi. Here, in the hundreds of interviews with your beloved Premier, notoriously more present on television than at Palazzo Chigi, there has been a question about these topics. Now, let us imagine that this information, which cancels real and irrefutable facts and creates non-existent facts out of nothing, can be consciously, scientifically and repeatedly manipulated to damage or even destroy the dignity and reputation of one or more subjects. In Italy this practice even rises to the role of method and has conquered even a proper name, the well-known Boffo method, precisely. The "Boffo" method is a defamatory campaign made of half-truths mixed with lies, with the only intention of discrediting the "political" opponent by using information, or rather by manipulating information. A method which we know has been cleared by Mr Berlusconi, or rather by his associates, and which, according to Mr Bersani, has now been done precisely by Renzi. Information and freedom of the press are the pillars of democracy and on this I believe that no one can have any doubts; but it is good to remember that the press and information in Italy are only partially free and that we cannot fail to take account of, addressing the subject of defamation. In fact, two opposing rights need to be balanced: on the one hand, the freedom of expression of thought as a constitutionally guaranteed primary good and, on the other hand, the rights of personality, hence dignity and reputation, which are also constitutionally guaranteed. Freedom of expression of thought is also a fundamental human right; it is recognised, inter alia, by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and is a cornerstone on which all other fundamental rights and freedoms rest. Although communication has profoundly changed in recent years and there has been a providential multiplication of the media, it remains a substantial difference: the world of TV, the printed media and, more generally, of the registered newspapers is recognized as an enhanced credibility or even a sort of officiality. These means therefore have the capacity to influence public opinion very incisively, decisively, I dare say deadly. It is therefore not possible to sanction in the same way a professional journalist who writes on the front page of a national newspaper and a citizen who maybe writes his thoughts online, perhaps addressed to his own narrow circle of friends. With regard to the web and online newspapers, which I certainly do not want to subtract from, this specific point is even provided for in Article 1 of the draft law that we are discussing. The planned registration of the newspapers in the court guarantees the existence of an effective structure behind the website and therefore we agree. Correct is also the exclusion from liability for the publication of any comments of readers of an article, comments from the content that could be defamatory (I refer to objective responsibility, of course). This is in line with the jurisprudence of the Cassation. In fact, those who write an article cannot be held responsible for the comments collected. All this said, we are of the opinion that, although defamation can be systematic and conscious, even scientific and elevated to the rank of method and therefore objectively very serious, especially in a country, like ours, in which, as I have mentioned, the press and information are strongly manipulated, it is time to finish punishing defamation with prison. The Court of Strasbourg also held that prison sentences are not compatible with freedom of expression, because prison has a deterrent effect on the freedom of journalists to inform, with negative effects on the community, that it is also entitled to receive information. After all - and I conclude - those who make the defamation, scientific, repeated and conscious, a weapon of political struggle is certainly very sensitive also to their portfolio and, above all, afraid of having to restore the truth of the facts, rather than prone to the protection of their reputation. And that's where this rule has to go to intervene. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, adopted at first reading in the House and amended in the Senate, addresses the sensitive issue of defamation by the press and seeks to combine the need to protect freedom of information and expression with the inviolable right of the citizen not to be defamed and harmed in his reputation. The measure is the result of careful reflection and proper study during the parliamentary examination, thanks also to the numerous hearings held that have helped to clarify some of the problems related to the concrete application of the current discipline, with particular reference to the thorny question of the objective responsibility of the director. It is undoubtedly an important step towards dealing with the delicate balance of two constitutionally protected and often lively fundamental rights with seriousness and responsibility. The issue was widely addressed in the past legislature when some events known to all (Mulè and Sallusti cases) brought to media attention and above all political the contrasted theme of press freedom and its limitations and the opportunity to amend a law dating back to 1948 that had as a corollary application a dissemination of information characterized by the media and the provisions of the penal code in the matter of crime of defamation that, as formulated, is no longer relevant. The corollary of the application of the principle of freedom of expression of thought (Article 21 of the Constitution) for the historical moment in which it was written saw in the press the place where this freedom could best be exercised, placing itself in clear cesura compared to the previous period characterized by a prior check by the regime, with possible seizure before the printed one saw the diffusion. It is April 15, 1947, when Article 16 of the Charter was placed on the agenda of the constituent assembly, which will subsequently become our Rule 21. The constituent Fathers had well in mind as only through a freedom to freely express their thoughts could one make that democratic leap towards the new Republic. Over the years the print has slowly given way to new forms of communication, first with the radio and television system and, in more recent times, through the different web platforms. It thus increases the ability of writing to spread through an ever-increasing range of media. This also has obvious consequences in terms of the possibility that from that manifestation of thought, whatever the means of diffusion, also comes as a consequence the injury of the goodness of the person, as the rapporteur recalled in her introductory report. From the point of view of the overall system, regulatory intervention responds to a general and shared demand, for a large part, by the majority of political forces to introduce into our system some indispensable measures aimed at ensuring more free and, at the same time, more responsible information. It is also right to compare what is happening in other parts of Europe and the world with a subject in which we still often hear the profound difference between Italy and the rest of the world. It doesn't have to be like this, and what we're doing brings us closer to the rest of the world. In Germany, for example, the prison sentence is provided, but in fact it has never been practiced. But the extremely different cultural and social context, with a balance of coexistence, means that, if there were a defamation in the media in fact slanderous, because it defames when it is known to lie, this would be considered an advertising suicide by the newspapers themselves for the loss of authority and authority they would have on the moral plane towards the public. In France perhaps there is even more severity than in us and, even if there is no prison sentence, much stronger is the right to reply and the protection of citizens and their privacy: it would never be possible to publish in France all the minutes of interrogation of a person under investigation. In England, for example, press defamation was only decriminalised in 2009, but also in this case very strong is the protection for the citizen in terms of correction, compensation for damage and reparation. In Spain there is still a prison sentence, even if it has never been imposed, except in cases where in the press there was incitement in some way to terrorism and violence, especially in areas affected by Basque terrorism. In the United States, still, there is no federal crime of defamation, but there are also strong forms of reparation and 17 federal states also include a prison sentence. Of course, we are putting in place an adaptation and alignment action that tries hard to reconcile the right to freedom of expression by newspapers and the manifestation of the thinking of publishers, directors and journalists, with the right to protect the goodness of people. In a context, however, in which we are witnessing the constant exasperation of the way we relate to each other, in the degeneration of a civil coexistence that no longer finds the common denominator of the reasons for coexistence, the banging of the monster on the front page has often been the instrument to destroy people, political opponents, and I believe that this deserves a careful observation well beyond the redefinition of the criminally prosecutable cases and the sanctions related to them. Of course, to revise the discipline of the correction, establishing among other things that it must be published free of charge without comment, without reply, without title and with the indication that it is a correction referring to a certain article, identified with the date of publication and with the name of the author, is extremely important, much more than happened so far, pursuant to article 8 of the law on the press. There is an express reference to cases where declarations and corrections cannot be published, i.e. where they have content liable to criminal indictment or are documentaryly false. There is an amendment to the administrative sanctions, while the elimination of the penalty for imprisonment is certainly to be shared: this is extremely important, as we have all seen and seen during the debate on the Sallusti case. I believe, however, as was said in the report's conclusion, that we must be very concerned about what is now the relationship we have with a web that must remain free, but which is often badly used: the spread of the conculcation of the goodness of people, of defamation and of slander, without any particular consequences, is a problem that we must all pose. In short, with this law we certainly go in the direction of adapting to a common order absolutely indispensable in a world in which the free movement of goods, services, people and ideas is the cornerstone of the new way of life in competition and in the global world. We are adapting to legislation that is widespread in other countries. At the same time, we have to pose the problem of how to protect people against the wrong use that the web allows to anyone today, so that anyone feels entitled to be able to hit anyone. All this will lead to a revision of the existing legislation. For now I believe that the obligation to delete from websites, from search engines of defamatory content or personal data processed in violation of the law is an extremely positive fact, useful to reconstruct a balance that has often been altered. We shall therefore vote in favour of this measure with these reasons and reserve the right, in the light of the ensuing debate, to speak in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u27	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new law on press defamation, which has been tried in vain to approve in the last parliamentary term, especially after the Sallusti case, is a priority that is also imposed on us by the increasingly incisive jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. The balance established over half a century ago, however, also needs to be adjusted with regard to the very structure of the means by which the crime is committed. For a decade now, pandettes have known the most advanced notion of editorial product, so it is incomprehensible that the precept of important sanctioning predictions remains attested to the definition of "printed" dating back to 1948. The principle of the typical criminal offence has rightly prevented, so far, the jurisprudence provided it in an interpretative way, but it is time that the legislator equals all paper products to those on computer, telematic media and in any case on virtual platforms. This is what we intend with our amendment to Article 1 to rewrite the law on the press, since a second and better level of protection is what comes from the presence of the element of disclosure. The delicate problem of products placed on the Internet by private individuals is not missing. If you consider the cases of mail bombing that are repeated against public officials in order to achieve dangerous alterations of their freedom of determination you understand how urgent a legislative intervention in this matter is. The bill against anonymity on the web, announced last spring by Mr Moretti and Mr Hope on the Unity, is to be welcomed as an important progress against the computer agnosticism of the left that so far has allowed the snipers of the Internet. Amendment 1.1, to our signature, also tends to this because it guarantees sanctioning mechanisms which, borrowed from the agreement concluded by Deputy Minister Catralà with computer companies, allow the anonymity to disappear in cases where it is attentive to the honour of people with a twitter or with a computer post. With it, in fact, we want to encourage the contractual clauses that the main servers, also at international level, conclude (most of the times by membership) with the user, in order to their right to remove the offensive content that appeared on the web or on the moderation of the content, this especially in the case of contributions covered by anonymity, susceptible to viral shares that make it even difficult to trace back to those who said it first. This is a phenomenon of particular gravity and our attention should be higher and more detailed on the spread of real hoaxes on the web. Even these days we have repeatedly noticed the use of such a tool that constantly alters reality. These clauses must be considered and encouraged, both in order to deflate the litigation and, above all, for a better and faster protection (as already attempted for cyberbullying, when the Ministry of Economic Development has entered into an agreement with the main IT companies in the sector). From the text approved in autumn 2013 by the Chamber of Deputies, our main amendment draws, for most of the boundaries of the responsibilities of online newspaper editorials, as well as for the exercise of the right of rectification (including the predetermined format of its publication, with adequate spaces and without editorial clasp) and for the elimination of the additional financial penalty to compensation for the damage. On the other hand, it is not considered that the case of Article 57 of the Criminal Code is too incisively altered beyond the obvious elimination of any objective liability of the Director. In fact, the law on the press is its own place to determine precisely the chain of responsibilities, even manslaughter, starting with the director, passing through the editorial delegate, to arrive also to the title owner, who often causes greater damage to the journalist, improperly emphasizing minor or even absent elements in the article. This practice, ladies and gentlemen, and Madam President, is particularly prevalent in certain tabloid newspapers, which aim to increase the number of sales and also to act as a political attack on competitors. Here we propose a better definition of the responsibility for supervision and control of the Director, also from the point of view of respect for the ethical canons of cross-checking the plurality of the sources, nor do we neglect to consider the relations of connivance that can be established between the great signatures and their director, valorizing the autonomous role of the latter, thanks to the opportunity - which is offered to him following the request for correction - to avoid any kind of responsibility, if the artist does not accept his request for self-certification of the truth of what is claimed. Also on the front of the right of criticism, as well as on that of news, the interventions that aim to enhance the autonomy of the professional contribution of the journalistic category. The director is responsible for monitoring against the methodological daily desecration, renamed character killing, increasingly stigmatized even in the most authoritative deontological sites. The absence of the element of novelty, which is precisely of any journalistic campaign, makes the slight recurring defamation more and more similar to the misconception that led to filming the pervincous socks of a Milanese judge (service that, aired in the first evening, has rightly earned its authors the suspension from the Order). In principle, in terms of sanctions, the House's proposal is satisfactory. If anything, it should be added, for the sole author of the defamation, also the temporary ban from public offices, which has a deterrent effect even stronger than the hypotized reposition of detention. Finally, it is proposed that civil action be regulated more and more in line with the general rule of Article 2043 of the Civil Code, even with the particularity of the possible joint responsibility outlined above. However, it is completely separated from the need for a prior trial of the criminal case and rather enhances the possibility of an autonomous adoption of precautionary measures only civilistic like the temporary injunction. Moreover, the fearful dispute, in the cases of Marchiana disproportionate between the damage complained of and the content recognized in the judgment, deserves the exclusion of any compensation (and indeed deserves a special additional penalty to be allocated to the Cassa delle fines). In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, without the amendment 1.1 that we are proposing, there is a serious risk of prolonging that Far West computer science in which sowers of hatred are hiding which take root in the social and moral degradation of our country. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u29	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u30	Madam President, this measure is not easy or easily intelligible. In a historical moment like the present one, in fact, talking about communication means referring to almost all the knowledge that one can have of a subject. We are at a time when the great trials are done in the newspapers before even inside the classrooms, because what we suffer is what is actually known, so this component concerning the freedom of manifestation of a thought, from the right of news to the right to be informed, sometimes causes injuries of an absolute interest of those who want to save and always make their goodness stable. This draft law currently before us, as approved by the House of Deputies, also finds us in the North League in favour of certain aspects. By the way, another measure had had a long iter in these classrooms but without achieving a positive outcome. With the text approved by the House of Deputies, and amended in the Justice Commission to the Senate, we can finally also distance ourselves from countries such as Rwanda, Iran, Vietnam, Burundi, North Korea, Sudan, Laos and Syria where - we remember - almost 150 journalists are held. In fact, the great innovation contained in this bill is precisely the exclusion of imprisonment in the case of defamation crimes through the press for journalists. In fact, the abolition of the prison for journalists, which is not the only important passage of this measure, is essential as a definitive port of civilization. In fact, two cornerstones and regiments of fascism actually fall into the proposal to amend the current regulatory framework: jail time for journalists and the aggravated hypothesis of the offense brought to the political, administrative and judicial body. In Italy, in fact, there is still an increase in the offence against those representing the State. In this context, we will have to talk about the issue of freedom of opinion which may lead to a crime. Let us remember, in particular, since we have made ourselves bearers of great doubts about the Mancino law, that also in this rule sanctions are provided for those who express opinions that may be hard, difficult, but the freedom of expression, of opinion, does not only concern those who do information or those who deal with communication, but all citizens as the right of all. However, freedom is a right but it is basically a duty. From this point of view, being free to express one's own opinions is fundamental, and the media are nothing but vehicles of our communication, of our freedom of opinion. However, it is necessary to stress how difficult the relationship between communication and the truth of situations is, taking into account also how structured it is and the very nature of the means of communication of our days, which is very immediate: sometimes it needs so short times that it is difficult even to carry out an analysis, a sincere verification of the truth of the news. Therefore, when we talk about the role of correction in this measure, which is fundamental, and which is analysed, explained, better carried out, we must remember, however, that the correction may not even restore a denied right. In fact, it is enough a news that jumps to the chronicles to create serious difficulties, in addition to the serious difficulty, then, to be able to restore its goodness. Agatha Christie, in one of her many books, said that where there is smoke it is always suspected that there is also roast. Maybe it's just a smoke, but in common opinion, if you talk about it, it means there's probably something going on. So the correction is yes fundamental but let's remember that the problem is upstream because at the very moment when it is expressed, revealed, communicated a false news or denigratory news, a slanderous news, this can create really serious problems, especially in a context like the current one where the processes, as I said before, are often done on the media before in the classrooms. We believe, however, that this measure already takes a significant and very important step forward, I repeat, not only for the elimination of the old legacy that provided for the imprisonment of journalists, but because it wants to analyse, consider and discuss the issue of communication. In this respect, the component, the result of technological developments in the field of communication, which concerns online communication, has also been included. This is not easy too but in order to avoid that everything that is written remains sculpted and crystallized in the net it is necessary to set up a system in order to eliminate and correct all components possibly defamatory. This is also an extremely sensitive context, and for this reason an amendment has been proposed which refers to the identification of the perpetrator of the crime, for example, for a slanderous news published on a blog, which is not simple but already the fact that the Commission has committed itself to this issue shows how sensitive and sensitive the problem is. The role of the director's role and responsibility and the difficulty for a director to monitor and verify all the news being published were also discussed. At the end of the day, however, what we want to emphasise basically is also an appeal for us who are involved in politics, because we can try to resolve the difficult contemplation of interests between freedom of expression and the limits of it in media communication. I believe that we should always remember that all the work we do, from politics to journalism, the press and everything else, is serious and must be taken very seriously because the consequences of our work can also be serious. That is why, as we will also remember in an explanation of vote, we shall vote in favour of the measure before us. We have proposed a number of amendments which we consider to be improvements. Probably, as they say, the excellent we could reach with who knows what further analysis, but this is an important step. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for what she has done, for the work she has done, which is not easy. We in the North League will make our full contribution so that the text can also be further improved. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u31	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u32	Madam President, the legislative text before us, with a solution that excludes prison sentences, constitutes a substantial adherence to a path that other Member States of the European Union have already taken and thus puts us in a position of perfect symmetry with the laws of other countries. It is clear that the law poses a serious problem of balancing two constitutionally guaranteed rights: that of the free manifestation of thought, but also that of the protection of very personal rights, such as the right to honor and reputation. In this regard, I would like to anticipate what is my thinking: the goodness of the structure of the legislative text will be able to evaluate it when, once it is applied, we have effective contimacy of the fact that it actually succeeds in protecting both sides of which we have discussed so far, therefore the freedom of expression of thought, especially with regard to the elimination of a prison perspective for the journalist who committed crimes by the media, that is, for those who have offended the dignity and reputation of others in the context of the traditional crimes of insult and defamation and, on the other hand, the effective protection of honour, an aspect in which we certainly cannot be indifferent in any way. Just to give an indication that in this phase of general discussion it can be more useful and differs from what then must be said in the explanation of vote, the law of this takes charge, having some aspects of utility on the side of the extension of the criminal responsibility, because it basically includes Article 1, within the entire discipline, not only the online newspapers but also the broadcasting ones, thus determining a legislative equalization on the level of the criminal responsibility of the press understood in the traditional sense, therefore of the periodicals on paper, compared to what is then perhaps the most widespread instrument of the news, i.e. the online newspapers, that is the newspapers, that perhaps compared to the printed paper, they are a character of greater diffusion and therefore of greater danger, with reference to the commission of crimes of defamation. Of course, the most important body in contrast to the traditional crimes committed by the media is the correction and this is where a very demanding speech, which, in my opinion, has certainly been developed in the Commission, is unfolding, because the correction is indeed the most important and persuasive sanction instrument in conjunction with the other sanctions under administrative law. I find it difficult to believe that the pecuniary penalty is an effective instrument of contrast to the commission of crimes of defamation, not being able to seriously perceive the criminalistic specificity of the pecuniary penalty in the context, precisely, of the contrast to the commission of crimes committed by the media. In this regard, I open a parenthesis that I close immediately: the pecuniary penalty is, if anything, an indication of the administrative nature of the wrongdoing. Perhaps, in taking the step that Parliament is preparing to take, we should have been more consistent and even more courageous in a certain sense. If one considers to be punished only with the financial penalty, perhaps it would have been better to move to decriminalization and therefore to the exclusive relevance within the punitive order of administrative law of these facts. In so doing, we are serious about the traditional punitive structures of the State, therefore on the public prosecutor's offices of the Republic, and then have to say that if there was any defamation, this fact deserves the intervention of a financial penalty that the administrative authority could have applied directly. Therefore, the context of this law, in a way, responds to the solutions adopted by the countries of the EU and mainly fits in the wake of a jurisprudence of supranational jurisdictions, but certainly it will still have to be tested as to its effective effectiveness in countering the commission of crimes committed by the media and, on another plan, perhaps it will have to be subsequently assessed the opportunity in the context of decriminalization. If the administrative instrument that supports the financial penalty is sufficiently capable of countering the trend towards the commission of such crimes, leaving the criminal law to manage only financial penalties honestly would appear to be a contradiction. So, of course, the legislative text deserves the utmost consideration; it is part of a framework of compliance with European legislation, to which no one today can think of escaping, but of course it is a text which must then be evaluated, if it ever came into force, precisely with reference to two particular aspects, which I recalled: its ability to neutralize the facts of defamation and, secondly, the usefulness of its permanence within the criminal system, for the obvious reason - which I repeat absolutely clearly - that the financial penalties, even though provided for by the penal code (and no one could seriously deny it), are, however, revealing the administrative nature of the illegality. Of course, every time we face only financial penalties, we need to reflect on the opportunity to leave that particular offence in an area that can only seriously provide for financial penalties if they are combined with prison sentences. Financial penalties alone do not have a serious right of entry into a criminal system. Moreover, the refusal of the prison sentence does not necessarily involve the use of so-called financial penalties; in the middle there are non-convict but not necessarily prison sentences. Then there are technical concerns, but these are things that I believe have been valued in some sense unnecessarily; I am thinking of the reference to Article 57 of the penal code, which would solve the problems of the title of the charge. If the facts are actually wrong (I refer to those committed by the director or the deputy director responsible in order not to prevent the publication of slanderous facts) or if they are arson facts, which are punished only quoad poenam in the act of manslaughter, Parliament must, to be honest, know clearly: these are problems that have been overcome for at least tens of years now. On the contrary, the text responds to the expression "guilty" which was precisely the one that generated the doubt of a punishable crime of actually manslaughter, which would have been better selected by a grantive expression (if manslaughter) rather than of arson events punished only with reference to the penalty as guilt, but structurally arson. I am speaking of facts that are certainly overcome by dogmatics, as well as by jurisprudence, if we take account of the fact (repeated in the text of the norm replicated in the current draft law) that the director or the deputy director responsible responds to the fact committed by others as a competition, if they act as a dole. Therefore, if the Director or Deputy Director responds in accordance with Article 110 of the Criminal Code, if they have acted with malice, it is clear that punishment in different cases, i.e. in cases where they have not acted with malice, is only due to a liability on the ground of guilt. On this point, therefore, honestly, the bill does not introduce any novelty to which the interpretative path of doctrine, but also of jurisprudence, have not already arrived. Finally, leaving the further reflections on the debate and the enrichment that may have to take place during this debate, it is certainly a demanding text, which solves the problem of the balance between these two opposite hemispheres: the rapporteur should therefore be thanked not only for my staff, which would be worth little, but for the whole Commission, for the way in which the work has been carried out. I repeat: it will be the experimentation of this legislative text to say whether we will actually be able to achieve the double objective of guaranteeing freedom of expression of thought without mortifying the right to the dignity and honour of citizens. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u35	CIRINNA' (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in the debate on this text, which has seen us working for a very long time in the Commission on justice, for me it is certainly a reason for interest in my work as a senator. I would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, and my colleagues in the Committee on Justice, who, as my colleague Mr D'Ascola has said, have given a great deal of thought to this issue. Among the thousands of activities I have done, I was assistant professor Cordero to the Chair of Criminal Procedure at La Sapienza University in Rome. This experience has taught me to always try to know the historical part of everything that is introduced in the novelation of the codes, both the criminal one and that of criminal procedure. For this reason, before entering into the specific analysis of the text, I carried out a historical research on what defamation has been over the centuries and years in the various legal contexts. To do this I used a book, which I would like to quote, also out of respect for the authors: The rules of journalists. Instructions for a dangerous trade", written by Caterina Malavenda, Carlo Melzi d'Eril and Giulio Vigevani. In this book there is a beautiful chapter, in which we historically reconstruct what has happened over the centuries to the crime of defamation. The authors say that: "Living with writing is difficult and also dangerous," but that it has always been during the centuries. The XII tables of Roman and distant memory provided, for the most serious defamations, the death penalty and the flogging. Thus, in Roman law there was even the death penalty for those who defamed. In medieval times things have changed and in case of injustice, the tongue was cut. Those of you who have followed God's ordalies, judgments and all that was carried out by the Inquisition know that this type of physical, physical and violent punishment was often carried out. In the Middle Ages, in case of defamation, the tongue was cut. Since the news circulates with the press, the consequences for the "skin" and for the life of those who spread what they think or see are usually less drastic. It is evident that the moderation of punishment, with the increase of civilization and respect for people, has improved. However, the authors of the book I am quoting state that: However, the risks of stumbling into a sanction have multiplied, and the news of these days has given us news. The historians date around the beginning of the seventeenth century the birth of the gazzettiere craft - that is, the journalist in the medieval age and in the most historical part of our researches - and immediately many of them begin to know the rigors of justice. Thus, around the middle of the 17th century, we begin to find processes with names. Johannes He underwent arrests and kidnappings because of his activity as a "reporter" - as a gazzettiere he then switched to reporter - until he had to rush away from his old Venetian workshop that was his editorial staff and move to Florence, it is not known whether on suggestion, in order not to risk a conviction, or why he fled. Historical and famous people have entered the ancient judicial chronicles for reasons of defamation, and even those who wrote for pleasure and not for trade could suffer severe punishments. I take the example of Michelangelo Merisi from Caravaggio, well known to the artistic chronicles also because of the proximity of his wonderful paintings to this Senate, which in 1603 was brought to trial, along with other Roman masters of the time, by Giovanni Baglione, for having written libelli, that is small writings, with licentious "rime" and "versi infamatori." He was then imprisoned in Tor di Nona before the trial, after which he was sentenced. The Caravaggio, who died - as we all know - on the beaches of the Argentario, in Maremma, also suffered a trial for defamation. Only thanks to the intercession of the ambassador of France, who evidently appreciated his art, could he serve the sentence under house arrest. Still looking for historical situations with respect to defamation, which we need to understand how this crime has evolved over time, the widespread censorship, before the spread of a printed one and the prediction of severe criminal sanctions among the offenders are the tools used by the illiberal regimes to limit the circulation of uncomfortable and dissenting ideas. The archives preserve numerous traces of trials that, before the recognition of freedom of the press, ended with draconian condemnations of journalists, usually guilty of having corrupted the customs or vile civil or religious authority. Very often, in the past, it has been precisely the cowardice of authority and of important figures that has dragged, in illiberal regimes - as we have already said - journalists or reporters on the courts. "Sometimes the excessive use of force has led to antithetical outcomes compared to the desired ones of the rulers" because - as we have pointed out previously, and in the text under consideration it has now been understood that prison is by far the most wrong measure - the deterrent effect has not taken place, especially after great debates such as - for example - in the 18th century on freedom of expression which, after freedom of the press, was long established at least in England in some papers. An example of not a lack of interest in the restrictive climate of restoration - we are talking about the early 1800s - is the case of journalist Magalon. The dramatic way in which he was led to prison, on foot, chained, along the streets of Paris, for publishing an anti-government booklet, provoked such a reaction of public opinion that the punitive intention, instead of turning off a voice contrary to power, produced an amplification of libertarian demands. It is precisely here that the point must be emphasized and that from the '700 to today it has been understood: the hammer, the chain, the prison, the cage however do not close their mouths to the thoughts of freedom and, therefore, also the defamation must be punished, but not with these systems. I'm not going any further. We even come to the Albertine Statute in which we begin to talk about freedom of opinion. Then there is a final part, which has been transposed and perceived in almost all the statutes prior to our current penal code - I remind you that it is still dated 1930, although now completely novel - and the data remains clear anyway. The fact that it goes through centuries and regimes makes it clear that the pen is powerful and therefore a source of dangers, for authority, for power, for individual citizens who can be harmed in their own right. But it is also powerful for those who - and I am happy that after me the most important intervention for the Democratic Party will be made by my colleague Capacchione, known free pen of this country - own living pen, using it to express their convictions and to project on reality, often, a light that wants to be kept off. I should like to conclude by saying that we have worked hard in the Commission to find a balance - as Mr D'Ascola mentioned earlier - between the exercise of the right to information, a subjective legal situation which is constantly changing because of the development of the media, and the protection of the honour of individuals, to which effective protection must always be guaranteed through a plurality of institutions. It is, in fact, now appreciated by all those who have spoken - you will then see it in the long work we will be dealing with on the amendments - the basic option that the text in our examination has guaranteed: the exclusion at the root of the applicability of prison sentences and their replacement with financial penalties. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u38	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking with reference to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, indicating to the Assembly the list of draft laws that the 5 Star Movement Group has adopted since today: Acts of the Senate Nos. 624, 872, 904, 906, 983, 1018, 1148, 1189, 1268, 1339, 1384, 1493, 1498, 1514, 1574 and 1597.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u39	The Presidency takes note of this and will inform the relevant Commissions for the purposes of applying Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press is certainly a fundamental heritage for a civilised country, even more so for a democratic country. It is right to deal with the issue of prison sentences of journalists for defamation. It is right to intervene on this issue and find alternatives to this type of condemnation, which, among other things, although very few, are the main cause of Italy's classification in positions not particularly exciting in the area of freedom of the press. 11:27 a.m. (Malan followed). However, freedom of the press is exercised, like any other civil liberties, in the sphere of legal certainty. [[Applause from Senator Marino Luigi.]] And legal certainty must be one of the concerns; therefore, it is very good to reduce penalties and find alternatives. However, we should know what defamation is. There is no intervention on this. We agree that, speaking at the academic level, among the lawyers we have heard and will hear, the ideas are clear; but then we see the application in practice, what happens in the courts and we find some abnormity. We see that personal assessments, even polite ones, presented as opinions, are punished, as well as, sometimes, we see that the attribution of specific facts, even serious ones, is considered a right of criticism and, perhaps, those who have supported the action of compensation are condemned to pay tens of thousands of euros for having dared to protect their own goodness. One of the demands in the amendments is that defamation should not become a productive sector. Let me give an example: if I publish de facto slanderous news in a newspaper or on a website I can sell many copies or many advertisements by earning 100,000 euros and this costs me 10,000 euros of fine, I do a profitable activity, much more profitable than many others that frankly I would think more honest than to destroy the reputation of the people. That is why I have tabled an amendment which provides for a measure of the amount of damage, introduced in Article 11-bis, where it is said, quite rightly that: A determination of the damage resulting from defamation (...) the judge takes into account the quantitative spread and the national or local relevance of the means of communication used to commit the crime, the seriousness of the offense. I give two examples, without naming names, for good reason. A journalist years ago was sentenced to pay 250,000 euros of compensation, in addition to several months of imprisonment which, fortunately, being incensured, did not have to serve, for having released a press release not even published - he turned only in the editorials of some newspapers of a small area of Italy - where he defined himself not particularly diligent - these were the words - a prosecutor of the Republic in dealing with a certain complaint that, in fact, went on prescription. The words "not particularly diligent" cost him 250,000 euros of fine. We don't know how it could have been defined, but it is in fact that he went on prescription without having any news of investigations. In another case also quite well known a few years ago a high office of the State, which had been attributed collaboration with mafias in his professional activity prior to his political commitment, got yes the condemnation of those who had written, but as many as 17,000 euros of compensation. They're publicly giving you mobsters, and you're getting 17,000 euros in compensation. Basically, maybe he paid his lawyer. That this can be considered as compensation even for family damage and personal relations seems to me to be very ridiculous. You must have greater clarity of what is and what is not defamation. We must defend in every way the freedom of the journalist, but also of the non-journalist to say his opinions, even in a strong, controversial and aggressive way. However, we cannot allow the truth to be wasted, people to be destroyed using defamation, perhaps by making it a political business, i.e. by building consensus on the basis of these things, commercial or media, for which a site is set up, systematic defamations are made and then, if it happens, we pay the fine, otherwise, most of the time, they will tell you that it is within the sphere of the right of criticism. With regard to the attribution of specific false facts, we could collect dozens of anecdotes from the people who have attended this House, who have been attributed specific facts that constitute crime, who have not only received no compensation, but who have also been sentenced to pay the costs of the other party. We are talking about tens of thousands of euros, which is a strong deterrent to protecting your rights. I would like to refer to Article 13 of the text proposed by the Commission, which states that: In the case of defamation committed by the media and by radio and television, the penalty of the fine of up to 10,000 euros applies. Then it is added that: If the offence consists in the attribution of a certain false fact, the spread of which took place with the awareness of its falsehood, the penalty of the fine from 10,000 euros to 50,000 euros applies. But what does it mean to be aware of his falsehood? It means that, imagining a journalist without scruples or that in any case I have a site not registered as a newspaper magazine, but that perhaps collects advertisements - to which the discipline of this law would not apply, but let's leave this extreme case alone - I could publish at random all the voices that come to me (title is pedophile, that other is mafia, that still beats children, that other steals from neighbors and so on). I'm not sure this news is true, but I'm not sure it's fake. 11:34 a.m. (Malan followed). Of course, I make accusations against well-known people; I collect a lot of publicity or even sell subscriptions and then, really bad it goes, I pay 10,000 euros, unless paragraph 4 of Article 13 always applies of the text proposed by the Commission, in which it says that: The offender of the offence shall not be punishable if he has requested, in accordance with the eighth paragraph of Article 8, the publication of the denial or correction requested by the offensed party. Frankly, I find it disconcerting. In the United States, for example, public figures - certainly not private ones, for which it works exactly the opposite - cannot basically initiate a defamation claim against them because criticism of a public character, in particular of a politician, must be free. In other words, a redivive Adolf Hitler couldn't say: You can't speak ill of me, so it's right to be able to say anything about him. The problem is, you don't know that before, so you have to be able to say anything about him. There is, however, a small fact: in the United States the director of a media that has leaked a false news, especially to the detriment of a famous person, resigns and, if he does not resign, is thrown out of his newspaper and however, once discharged, he certainly does not go to direct another newspaper earning some other ten million euros. He doesn't work in that business anymore, and he has to hope to find manual and humble work at five dollars an hour. That is the reality. It doesn't work that way with us and we decriminalize the crime of defamation. I would like to pay attention to this, although I see that the rapporteur is engaged on other fronts. I would ask you to pay attention to this, I repeat, because we are not in a position to liberalise defamation or to provide for low cost defamation, which, however, has a high yield from the point of view of the resulting fruits, with the risk of doing bad journalism, which should be the greatest enemy of the good and conscientious journalists, who I am convinced are the majority of the category. Clearly, though, if it becomes more profitable to be a professional slanderer, we discourage them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Marino Luigi and Maran.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u41	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope - and I appeal to the rapporteur, also to the President of the Justice Commission, Senator Palma, who is well aware of the matter - that today's debate will not be the next event, such as the Loch Ness monster, since the debate on the draft law on defamation occasionally appears in this House, except then disappear, just like the famous monster who was supposed to live in that Scottish lake; it is also time that we no longer talk about it and who knows how it is. We would therefore like a conclusion to be reached. I say this because having also personally insisted on the calendarization of this bill - I also say it to the Government that, so to speak, it has less blame in this case, since it is mostly a parliamentary affair of the Senate - I would not want what happened in the last legislature to happen. I am referring to the fact - few in fact are the Members present at this time who were in the Senate in the last parliamentary term - that we took weeks of discussion on whether or not to stop or fine, judging the fine too low and the correction too short. We know how complex the issue is, but, as a person who has been a journalist and a professional journalist but who also has a public function, I have experienced the problem on both sides. The correction, in particular, that already today some laws in force preview, is never done in the forms, in the spaces and in an editorial placement similar to the news defamatory. Today the newspaper headings are full, on page 804 (especially in very voluminous weekly) of letters of correction of denial which, however, do not have the same evidence as the defamatory articles that occupy the front pages. The problem of the alternative to prison, which I hope, must therefore be compensated for by an adequate economic refreshment or by the image and reputation that for anyone, but especially for those who perform a public function, has an important significance. My appeal is for the law to be passed. What will happen now, ladies and gentlemen (in this sense the appeal is also addressed to the rapporteur, to President Palma and to all the parliamentary groups)? Today the debate will take place (I don't think we will pass on to the amendments); Tuesday is then scheduled to examine the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, then there will be the bills of conversion of decrees-laws (which never fail and which have precedence), so this issue will abyss again and the monster of Loch Ness will come back underwater. And what happens to him? My speech is more on the order of business than on the substance: I hope that this issue will be completed because it is a number of legislation that we are talking about. There are citizens who do not see adequate guarantees of the restoration of their good repute and, at the same time, there are journalists who risk prison with a clear disproportionate penalty. This text is the result of a debate which has lasted for many years and I hope it will be adopted. At the moment, the rapporteur and the President of the Commission are examining the amendments which are not so many. We must commit ourselves, bearing in mind that the decree-laws take precedence and everything that parliamentary procedures impose (I am well aware of the rules) so that we can get to the adoption of this text. Allow me to raise another question. I have presented a bill on the famous issue of cowardice to abolish the related crime that corresponds to Act No. 1421. I know that the President of the Commission, Mr Palma, - whom I thank - has planned this proposal (but there are others from other groups) and I hope that the Commission will discuss it. In the meantime, however, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on libel quite simple (because it proposes to repeal a rule). I do not do this because I want to leave it to everyone to vile the President of the Republic (for the last time, in my long parliamentary experience, I also voted for it, having never voted for the Presidents elected in previous times). I would like to remind you that the President of the Republic himself on 16 October 2009, so five years ago he said, precisely because there was controversy over some events that, as regards Article 278 of the penal code (not touched on by the reform of the crimes of opinion of a few years ago), anyone who has the right to exercise the legislative initiative can freely propose its repeal. He concluded by saying: "Judge citizens what is freedom of criticism and what is not, with regard to the institutions, that should be kept out of the political and media mix" Not that the opinion of the President of the Republic of Naples is decisive: the laws approved by Parliament. However, from a person who has been engaged in intense institutional activity for a long time it was almost a kind of exhortation to the legislative initiative, which I have assumed, not alone (also other groups have done so). I took this initiative also because in a few days - I don't want to make laws ad personam, but for five years we have been talking about it - the trial will take place at the exsenator Francesco Storace for vilipendium, for a sentence all in all quite banal on which he clarified himself with the President of the current Republic (which was, at the time of clarification, what we re-elected). So there was also an overcoming of hatred and personal litigation. But for Storace the procedure was authorized for the villainy, since for this crime the authorization of the Minister of Justice is necessary. Every day we read insults, even of parliamentarians, of newspapers, to the Head of State and I do not know if Minister Orlando or those who preceded him attend the Aules, read the newspapers, but I have not seen permissions. So, there is a condolences between a person who risks a conviction in a few days and others who can vile every day. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Therefore, the bill that I have presented to repeal the crime of cowardice would also serve to recreate a par condicio (there would also be rules on defamation and everything else, so one could not offend the President of the Republic, whoever it is, at will). In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that this measure will continue, that it can be dealt with on a calendar basis, despite the numerous decrees that take precedence, and that it will be concluded. I also hope that the amendment that I tabled in particular on the abolition of the crime of cowardice will be adopted and, in the alternative, I would ask the Court that the draft law on the repeal of the crime of cowardice be discussed and approved in the Justice Commission. The opportunity is important, however, because this debate on the rules of defamation has been going on for several years and the Senate may not even survive its duration. So let us try to achieve this reform before the Senate goes on to perform other functions with other compositions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u43	President Gasparri, of course I cannot be the one to suggest it to you, but there are the regulatory instruments, in case you want to go to the vote: if you convince another seven, you can do it. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u44	Mr President, Mr Gasparri's speech has once again highlighted the complexity of the matter, which Mr D'Ascola had previously masterfully illustrated. All this reminds me of the old joke about the son of a magistrate, who, hearing the father listen and give reason to one side, and then hear him speak and give reason to the other, when he pointed out that he had given reason to both, despite having said opposing things, he heard the answer: You're right too, my son. 11:45 a.m. (Young people follow). And here lies the whole history of freedom of information and the need for the press to be free in a democratic country and be able to exercise its role of criticism, things that are not discussed, because they are constitutionally guaranteed. On the other hand, however, we have the honor and prestige of people, who cannot be harmed, especially when the media can destroy the reputation of a person, who also pays hard for the slanders that can be addressed to sounds. For years we have been looking for a mediation that can put together and combine the two opposing needs. It is true that we have talked about this for a long time in the last parliamentary term, without pulling a spider out of the hole, because then there are emergencies, such as that of a journalist who risks ending up in prison under legislation that still provides for defamation through the press or even for directors who have not exercised their control. Therefore, always in the wake of the emergency, we try to find a balance that is, however, polluted by the fact that the case, being addressed also to a single fact, is politically questionable. Here too, Mr Gasparri, when he referred to the Storace case in the case of the vilipendio, also recalled another issue on which we are debating, which risks derailing the discussion on the vilipendio. I would remind the House, as I have already done in the Commission, that we live in a system in which the blasphemy towards the deity is sanctioned with a fine, while the vileness to the person of the Head of State costs the prison. I realize that, in a secular world, the penalty for blaspheming god may have been debilitated at a mere fine, but that prison remains for those who vile a man is an imbalance in our legislation which is difficult to understand. As far as the cowardice is concerned, therefore, I also believe that everything should be done to try to bring the legislation into line with what we are talking about now, in order to create a system that does not have these enormous disparities, especially in its application. Here too, I would like to refer to something which Mr D'Ascola intelligently said: we are struggling to find balance and we are writing rules - which the rapporteur has explained - which seem to us to be substantially balanced, but which will be the subsequent facts and the case-law applications which will show whether or not this balance has been found. Of course, we also need to take account of all the issues that Mr Malan has put forward in relation to the double standards and the two measures that are, unfortunately, put on the ground according to who the people who feel harmed by the defamation are: if it is a magistrate, alas, the law and its application so far have been inflexible and the compensations disproportionate. If it is a politician, on the other hand, a criterion is used which is fundamentally opposed to what concerns the magistrate: we are actually in a totally contradictory situation. With regard to this, without repeating the comments already made by my colleague, Mr D'Ascola, I would like to remind you - the advance already in general discussion - of an amendment that we have tabled, signed by Senators D'Ascola, Giovanardi, Torrisi and Compagna, which concerns an innovative case compared to the old smearing by means of the press, that is, the problem of those who find themselves seriously defamed or slandered on a blog or on a website, a way that in recent years has multiplied to a great extent. There has been a strong debate in the Commission, which has not been resolved, about what happens when the citizen is in a situation where he has been slandered through one of these instruments. According to the Ministry of Justice, it should be the citizen who takes responsibility to monitor the thousands and thousands of existing sites, all those that have been registered, that is formalized, and that therefore also have a physical-juridical person who responds to them, to verify if any slanderous or defamatory statement has appeared on some site. It seems to me - and I say this to my colleagues - to be a lunar thing, because I wonder how a citizen can know if there have been certain facts attributed to him on a site in a certain way. Moreover, among other things, these facts if they are not challenged, are consolidated, because anyone can read in a site a slanderous statement towards a person and say: But how? It has been published for months and no one has contested it. On the other hand, it is impossible to do so if you do not know about it. In the amendment that we have tabled, we say something very simple: because these sites or blogs have a manager, natural or legal person, and those responsible for each of these structures know very well what is written on their site or what is inserted in it by third parties, they will be responsible, within 24 hours, for the cancellation of slanderous or defamatory phrases. In this sense, the citizen is protected, because he has the guarantee that the slanderous or defamatory sentences that are written must be removed; there is a person responsible for the removal, and if they are not removed even later there is someone who pays for this serious injury to the right to good repute of every citizen. If the amendment were not to pass, it is clear that, with the multiplication of these modern communication systems, which many times now replace paper, no one would be able to defend himself against this type of aggression. We believe that this House should welcome our proposal, not least because, to be honest, neither the Government nor any opponents have yet understood the reasons why this should not happen. Therefore, we reiterate the positive view of the balance that we hope has been achieved by this legislation, but I would like to refer - once again, Mr D'Ascola - to the following experience, to when the law is passed (in this sense I agree with Mr Gasparri on the need and urgency for this text to be adopted, because when Parliament continues to discuss a subject for years and years without ever reaching a conclusion it only makes the situation worse), hoping that this balance will be supported by a case-law that can find a reconciliation between the protection of great principles, constitutionally guaranteed, and the need for the different needs to be met. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u46	Mr President, you yourself have just pointed out that this measure stems from a debate in this House during the last parliamentary term, to the extent that, to a large extent, the text voted by the House incorporates paragraphs and articles that had been voted on in the Senate. Some aspects had not been included in the text, and we have therefore made a number of corrections in the Commission to determine, as far as possible, a balance between two requirements: firstly, that of not affecting freedom of information and, secondly, that of ensuring effective protection for the good of citizens. There is, however, something that is still not working, and I am speaking essentially to the rapporteur and to the Government. It was a mistake not to reopen the deadline for tabling amendments because this text was voted on in July, then it was actually scheduled for September, and the situation, of course, has escaped many of us. Let us bear in mind that it is a text born from the initiative of the People of Freedom and, despite this, as you can see, it always presents the need for changes. I begin with a few remarks. In article 1, paragraph 5, of the bill to our examination, that refers to article 13 of the law n. 47 of February 8, 1948, in the case the offence consists in the attribution of a certain false fact is previewed a penalty - Senator Malan has referred - from 10,000 to 50,000 euros. The penalty provided for in Article 595 of the Criminal Code should be the same, so much so that in the part not related to the aggregation of the determined fact, making the forecast of article 13 of the law on the press heavier, a fine from 3,000 to 10,000 euros is expected, instead of 1 to 10,000 euros. For the attribution of a given fact instead we foresee a fine of up to 15,000 euros, and therefore we have two norms that conflict with each other while referring to the same fact, considering that the penalty of the fine provided for in article 13 of the law on the press refers to the crime of defamation and not to a hypothesis of disciplinary sanction. I now come to disciplinary sanctions. I am sincere: in this matter, having dealt for years, as a magistrate, with the liberal professions, and in particular with journalists, I have always considered that the criminal penalty or the civilistic sanction do not have a great deterrent value - I say this with knowledge of the case - to the point that in the past legislature I had proposed that all the clauses of malpractice included in the journalistic contracts should be declared null and void. This is in order to have greater respect for the profession of journalists. That proposal, however, was misunderstanding: it was felt that I had proposed that amendment to strike at a particular journalist, of which, on the other hand, I did not know that he had the total loss of the public company. The problem remains, however. If we eliminate disciplinary sanctions and the risk of civil punishment through malpractice, it turns out that the journalist has nothing to fear. So I wonder: are we really convinced that disciplinary sanctions should be removed, for example, for the director responsible? It cannot be said that we have foreseen this, as it is currently, as a result of guilt, because we will also sanction the civil liability of the magistrates - and I hope that we will do that law as soon as possible - but, even in that case, we then have disciplinary responsibility. So I wonder: is it consistent to exclude disciplinary responsibility and not rather to modulate it in relation to the seriousness of the matter? Beware, it is the only real deterrent for a serious journalist, for us who have respect for that profession, and exalting it means doing just that against those who practice a profession that is in the general interest of society, because it represents a link between the individual citizen and the State, society. It is therefore necessary to identify consistent, non-brainical disciplinary sanctions that have their ability to deter certain behaviors. I do not know whether the rapporteur and the government will take charge of these comments to table amendments, but I would ask you to consider, where Article 2 of the draft law, amending Article 57 of the penal code, states that: The ancillary penalty of the prohibition from the profession of journalist does not apply, the possibility of other disciplinary sanctions that are not necessarily the prohibition: you can access a number of alternative measures such as suspension or censorship, in addition to what I have referred to for the determined fact. The rule in Article 3 concerning the so-called right to be forgotten, and as you know, there is now a case-law of the European Court on the need to guarantee this right, has been unanimously approved by the Commission as I wrote it, with the expression of the intention by the Government and the rapporteur to draw up an amendment for the approval of the House. For the sake of respect for both of us, I have not prepared an amendment of this kind. I would point out, however, that this rule correctly raises the question of the need to guarantee the right to be forgotten and is based on the following terms: if there is an infringement, the court, requested, may order the cancellation. However, it is not correct not to sanction the behavior of the person who, as we have foreseen for the correction, requested to proceed with the correction - obviously documenting the necessity of the correction itself - does not adapt in order to restore the goodness of others. The subject is therefore obliged to turn to the judges and to bear a cost in order to have a legitimate result that is due to him. It is true that Article 4 provides, correctly, the possibility for the court to order the plaintiff to pay a sum in favour of the fund of fines (i.e. we want to abdicate what is envisaged for the fearful dispute for those who make complaints to journalists who have no basis), as a pendant, however, precisely because of the need for balance, we must necessarily provide that, in the event that the right to be forgotten is not complied with that specific prescription, it is true that I will be forced to address the judge to obtain the cancellation but, having had to bear these expenses, I think it is right to put a brake, a deterrent against the person who has the possibility to order that cancellation by avoiding the judgment. If, by hypothesis, the subject adjusts, the penalty is not applied, and therefore only applies in the case of refusal or impossibility to do so. In conclusion, I believe that overall this measure has its own structure that needs to be shared. These changes must be made to ensure that there is a real balance so that the measure is perceived as a fair solution outside: it is not a question of decriminalisation, but of imposing a sanction that can be perceived as correct for the purposes of the balance of interests at stake. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr Malan did a great deal of work before, because, while he said that this was a necessary measure, he also explained the limits. If we had an objective, prepared and correct judiciary, there would be no problem. But - alas - I now know that the history is not this (I am a doctor). I note that the rapporteur, Mr President, is very busy chatting with the Undersecretary and does not even realize that I am addressing you. The fact that the judiciary is sick is now established; this disease is costing 2% of GDP of annual expenditure (32 billion is said) and the sick person has no intention of being cured. But we try hard to cure him, and this bill to amend a law of 1948 (No. 47) is a first step. He hoped Mr Gasparri, in his speech, that the measure would not become like the monster of Loch Ness, which is seen from time to time, emerges and then disappears for years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the example of Article 18 of the Staff Regulations. This bill is in fact like the former adiuvantibus therapies. The great discoveries of medicine, such as penicillin, took place because it had to be tried; After testing it, it was seen that they cured infections and lungs, at that time deadly, for 80-90 percent. It was therefore considered that they were right. Mr D'Ascola said that the effects of the rule should be assessed when it is applied. It is a law that must combine freedom of the press with the rights of privacy and privacy of citizens. Freedom of the press is a constitutional interest guaranteed by Article 21. The citizens and the inhabitants of those countries where there have been the cruelest communist dictatorships, as in China, as in the days of Pol Pot, as in Cuba, where freedom of the press was first removed. However, freedom of the press, as my colleague Mr Malan (my homonym Lucio said), cannot result in a defamation and damage to a citizen who is compensated in a ridiculous way, instead revealing itself to be an economic advantage for the newspaper that gives a consciously false news. That's it. We know that there is a lobby of radio journalists. I would like to give an example for everyone: "Report" is a great lobby that only makes junk news, to have high economic consensus from those who obviously give this news. If sometimes they pay a few euros, the gap, the gain is definitely a big deal. I always see undersecretary Ferri and the rapporteur busy talking: we hope that they will conclude something good. Anyway, good work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They will certainly follow his words, Senator Barani. Barani (GAL). Mr President, I come back to Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, which the Reformist Socialists wanted in 1970, even against the wishes of the Communists of that time. This rule did not work because the labour judiciary did not apply it as it should, but it has always wronged entrepreneurs and reason to idle, incompetent and bureaucratic workers. That is all the reason for this failure. If we had a competent and efficient judiciary, with the right balance to impose the right penalties, we would not have this bureaucracy, we would not have the protection of the idlers, but we would have the merits and the needs, which are the fundamental principle. Mr Malan, who will never finish thanking me for his speech, opened up scenarios that I did not know, when he explained that, however, in the United States there must be freedom of the press: the news must be given. But if the reporter or the director doesn't give it right, they'll have to go do another job. For example, I bring you the case of Strauss-Kahn. Members will remember that there was a prosecutor who imprisoned him on the basis of a serious accusation (of course not to make him President of France: there was indeed an international plan), but that prosecutor, within a month, acquitted him. In Italy, the Pacciani case, the monster of Florence, represented the fortune of Judge Vigna, who made a career with that lie, which lasted for years. In Italy you always go after such facts you do not repent. It is for this reason that I support the need for this bill, in the matter of defamation, defamation by means of the press or by other means of broadcasting (radio-television or Internet sites), of insult and condemnation of the plaintiff. However, there is also a need for the right balance on the part of the judging bodies. Senator Cirinna, in her speech, started from afar and spoke about Caravaggio: this made me understand why there is so much conflict in this House. Perhaps because Caravaggio lived here, and left you the spirit of conflict, especially in the benches at the center of the hemicycle, as we saw yesterday. Therefore, the starting point for approaching the topic of defamation through the press is certainly the observation that the media, today much more than yesterday, represent a real power, which, as such, as well as others, must be properly regulated and updated. It is the media that decide who will be the President of the Council, who will be the Minister and who will be the President of a Region, precisely because they begin to instill it in the minds of the citizens, and when they want to eliminate someone they make an outrage, giving false news. Then perhaps its denial is published on the last page and, in this case, there is the postulate of Giulio Andreotti, so a denial news is a news given twice. It does not escape anyone that the advent of the Internet has upset the canons of information that we were used to until a few years ago. Hence the need to adapt existing legislation to new media realities, which have developed increasingly with the spread of the Internet. The other assumption to keep in mind is that information must necessarily be responsible, and it could not be otherwise. The right to information and to information is followed by the duty that the information be complete, not distorted, not resounding at all costs and in any case respectful. Of course, we are of socialist culture and, therefore, we are for the decriminalization of crimes in the field of information - it was not right for Sallusti to go to prison - but also in other fields, such as the medical one. In fact, it is not possible to incarcerate doctors because they have committed an operating error or fail to assure eternal life to a person (though, sooner or later, the Father has established that we must die). We therefore need to review the whole code and above all to carry out further decriminalizations in order not to be a repressive state. We are for a democratic state where freedoms are available to all. Mr Undersecretary, the only appeal I make to you is as follows: if journalists are wrong, they must be removed; if doctors are wrong, they must be removed; if the magistrates are wrong, they must do another job. [[Applause from Senators Malan and D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u49	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u50	Mr President, this legislation deals with a sensitive subject, as has been pointed out several times in the speeches I have heard, all of which are very focused and appropriate. It is a question of combining a typical requirement of our democratic society, freedom of information, with the right of the individual citizen not to be defamed. I can think of a sentence, which I often quote for personal topics, by Indro Montanelli, who said: The truth almost never triumphs, but its opponents always succumb. I like to think that this legislation tends to combine the two sections of the theme, namely the succumbence of the opposers of truth with the re-establishment of truth itself. In fact, the focus of balance between the right to freedom of information and the right to reputation is based on the affirmation of the truth, so much so that the scope - as it were - of compensation is greatly amplified, not only from the point of view of the application of the asset component of compensation, but also of the repair of the damage, with the affirmation of the truth. The correction is extended as a condition of non-perpetuality if it is recognized that the statement made, considered precisely defamatory so that it is not true, is denied. Another commendable element of this legislation, which makes the country overcome the history of a dictatorship that required media control, is the cancellation of the prison sentence for journalists. There is a sort of change in the boundaries of criminal importance: the sanction provided for is, in fact, pecuniary and non-afflictive of freedom and the prison sentence is excluded. Some of the speeches I have heard even indicated the way in which this case is confined in the area of administrative sanctions and not criminal sanctions. But we can come back to this at another time. The foundation of our country's democracy is certainly based on the freedom to communicate, to express ideas and also to criticize, where this exercise is naturally done with the criterion of objectivity and balance. Freedom of the press is not the freedom to slander through the press. It is not the freedom to insult or insult an opponent or simply a person, a political area, a communication content with which one disagrees. However, it is clear that this aspect (the one concerning freedom of the press) has a more pronounced claim in this new legislation. A historical judgment of the Court of Cassation of 1984 which states, with an assertiveness and implacable consistency, that the exercise of the right to report can be considered a cause of justification on the basis of Article 51 of the Criminal Code, according to which the exercise of a right allows the justification of what is happening, exercising that right, even if it is detrimental to some other usefulness for other subjects. All this is due to the hierarchical superiority of the constitutional norm, exactly in Article 21 of the Constitution. It must also be said - and this argument develops in this legislation with an analytical view - that this right can be exercised even when there is an injury to another's reputation, but only and as this happens with some fundamental bases. Meanwhile, the first argument (and I refer to Montanelli's quote) is: the truth of the published or diffused news and the correspondence between the facts narrated and those happened; then, the relevance and the topicality of the information that is intended to be disseminated, even with critical connotations, as it was said, that can also harm the reputation; but if the information is done with objectivity and especially if it does not go beyond the terms of the iniuria (the concept of continence is recalled), all this is admitted. But when there is the lack of even one of these three elements, here is that the protection of one's own reputation, of one's own honor, of one's own respectability, compressed by the affirmation of the right to know, to express a criticism and to manifest one's own thought, still returns in its fullness; therefore, the right of news is no longer configurable as such in an absolute sense, because it becomes, in fact, a defamation. The European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of Article 10 of the Convention, also draws interesting arguments on this point and states that every person has the right to freedom of expression, to receive and communicate information, even outside his territorial borders, without any interference by the authorities; but this right to freedom to communicate, being a very delicate right, because it can collide with other rights (those, indeed, with respectability and honour), must be conditioned, as it is, by certain restrictions. The rules that balance the two rights must be expressed and provided for by law and must move with the aim of full legitimacy, covering the fundamental values of a rule of law: national security, territorial integrity, public security, crime prevention, health protection, and, in the case of confidential information relating to the development of investigation and investigation activities, the confidentiality and secrecy of the investigations. The European Court, in its various articulations and expressions, has often reaffirmed this central right of democratic societies to information. The media are, in fact, as often defined by an evocative image, the watchdog of democracy. Therefore, the function of reporting to the public what is not considered appropriate, even of the functioning of the institutions, is considered a value to be safeguarded. That is why the sanctions on journalists must be modulated and carefully considered, in the face of the right of the community and society to know the facts. The Court considers legitimate the public authority's interference in the communication, where it is provided for by law, where it is considered a necessary method for legitimate purposes and where this intervention is proportionate to the fact. It comes to mind that the progress of this legislative formulation has been particularly thorough and thorough through the hearings of directors of newspapers and qualified representatives of the Association of Publishers and Journalists, precisely because it is a subject of great sensitivity and delicacy. Through this wide hearing not only in parliamentary offices, but also in a complex and extensive activity of conferences, hearings, comparisons and debates in fora outside the institutions he has found a synthesis in what is the final construct, which I summarize in conclusion of my speech, focusing in particular on the elimination of the prison sentence, as a legal conquest of the freedom of information and democracy of our country, and on the extension of the scope of the law on the press to newspapers also extracartaceae. Finally, I wanted to reiterate the particular significance of the correction as a remedial criterion for the reconstitution of the truth, which is considered an element of non-perpetuality of the affirmations, if this happens in the appropriate terms. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u52	Mr President, public opinion is everything: with public opinion nothing can fail the target; without it nothing can succeed; therefore, those who shape public opinion go deeper than those who decree or announce decisions. It ensures that decrees and decisions are not adopted. I don't say it, but Abraham Lincoln many years ago. This means that the subject we are dealing with today has been a subject of long-standing debate and has never found a suitable solution. The draft law in its original wording and the objective that the proposer, Mr Costa, set himself with it were shared by us or, better, desired, pushed and urged. Senator Caliendo recalled that the bill was proposed by Forza Italia and then abandoned in previous legislation. It is therefore clear that there is a basic sharing of objectives which were intended to be achieved at least in the imagination of the presenter, Mr Costa. The objectives were to achieve a satisfactory balance between the protection of the freedom of expression and criticism of the journalist in good faith - sometimes, it must be said, even exposed to instrumental attacks even intimidating - and the equally important protection of the honor of the people offended by slanderous news, often really devastating. As I said, I believe that the whole House can share these aims. But I must also say that this bill does not fully achieve these ambitions and manifests serious criticalities, which are in open contrast with the objectives indicated by the proposer himself. I refer, in particular, to the central point and characterizing of the plan constituted - I believe it is evident to all - by the reform of the incriminating norm, referred to in article 13 of law n. 47 of 1948, reform today realized with article 1, paragraph 5, of the measure under consideration. In the original system of 1948, in fact, Article 13 limited itself to establishing more serious and prison sentences for the case of defamation committed by the media and the attribution of a certain fact. While, therefore, the constituent elements of the crime remained those established by the rule of the penal code on defamation, namely Article 595 of the penal code. This bill intervenes in various respects: first, it intervenes on the qualification of the conduct of defamation by means of the press, which consists in the attribution of a definite fact, the diffusion of which took place with the awareness of its falsehood. I agree that there is a strengthening of the element of the dole, with greater incisiveness than the profile of the voluntaryness of the fact. It must be said that in this respect my conviction is consistent over time: in fact, I have always been in favour of this strengthening compared to all the measures I have examined. I must say, however, that I do not match and do not record the same coherence between the forces of the left. I would like to recall that, when we wanted to strengthen the element of dole and voluntaryness within the framework of the bill on the vote of political-mafia exchange, we spoke of the need for the politician to have the awareness that the subject with whom he concluded the agreement was criminal. It was then said - I remember the speeches of the most authoritative leftists, both in the Commission and in this House - that there was no need to refer to awareness, because the element of the dole itself was already sufficient to clarify that there had to be the need for knowledge. Today, however, the reference to the need for the awareness of the falseness of the fact by those who have spread it is expressly added. I note, with satisfaction, that the authoritative left-wing leaders realize that there are cases where perhaps the element of the dole needs to be further strengthened with the reference expressed to awareness. What's going on? A further specification of the psychological element of the crime originally unsolicited is introduced. This novelty stands in striking contrast with the interpretations established over decades in jurisprudence. Who does not remember - Senator Albertini has just mentioned it - the so-called decalogue of the Cassation that in the eighties identified a series (precisely a decalogue) of elements for the configuration of the hypothesis of crime? Well, ladies and gentlemen, in order to get out of technicalism, today the publication of an offensive news for the other honour and reputation to be justified, in addition to the truth of the fact exposed, must present additional requirements, also important and subject to extensive investigation in case studies, but that we can summarize: that there is a public interest in the knowledge of the facts related to their topicality and social usefulness; that there is a social interest in information (so-called requirement of relevance). These were part of the elements referred to in the decalogue of the Court of Cassation; moreover, the information is kept within the correct limits of the most serene objectivity, respect for the confidentiality and goodness of others, or formal correctness of the news or criticism. In other words, there are reports that, even if they are true because of the absence of these additional elements, they must not be unpunished. Thus today's article, in this respect, far from guaranteeing that balance that the author of the text had set himself, is on the contrary a significant backwardness in the protection of the honour and reputation of the citizens; and it is all the more serious because it is realized - let us say surreptitious - with the insertion of an inscription placed there almost by chance, inter alia interrupting the perfect structural synchrony between ordinary slander and by means of the press. Equally unjustified to me seems the automatism introduced with paragraph 4 of the reformed article 13 of Law No. 47 of 1948 between publication of the correction and exclusion of the punishableness. Practically if the journalist with a defamatory news, even though aware of the falseness of the news in the times and in the ways indicated by this law, corrects the news, such action purifies and becomes existentially, he can no longer be condemned. I would also like to turn to the rapporteur. This correction has not been amended. We did not have much time because this measure fell on us during the examination of the constitutional reform in which we were given lightning times. This measure has fallen there and we have not had time to look into it, but the rapporteur can always, at any time, table amendments that adjust the rule. Madam Senator, I would like to point out to you that it is very difficult for a correction in 30 lines to restore the honour of an offended person with a press article. I want to remind you, Senator, of Professor Schillaci's specific case, I don't know if he remembers it: her two-year-old daughter was diagnosed with sexual violence. Two years old was his little girl, and Professor Schillaci in the entire national press was presented as the father who raped her. He then made sure that the diagnosis was wrong and that it was not a result of sexual violence, but of a tumor, so that the child died little by little. Does anyone in this House - and you, rapporteur - think that with 30 lines we can give Professor Schillaci the honour again? I don't think so, even though someone might answer that the press, generously, will be able to emphasize further the falseness of the published news. But do you think that the honour of a person is negotiable with the generosity of a journalist who in conscience will eventually be able to publish the correction on a wider space? Well, I would not entrust to this generosity the recovery of a person's honor. I believe that the correction, when a person is seriously offended, must at least occupy the same spaces occupied by the slanderous news. Article 2 of this text amends Article 57 of the Criminal Code, stating that the Director's responsibility exists only if the crime is a consequence of a breach of the obligation to supervise the content of the publication. This is a clarification which also incorporates the content of the case-law which is now prevalent, and we therefore agree. This is a measure and our intellectual honesty on this side is such that we have the courage to say what points we share. On the other hand, the reduction of the sentence and, above all, the exclusion for the director, also for cases of recurrence, from the ancillary penalty of the prohibition of the profession, where the responsibility of a director, in pursuing and carrying out forms of journalism potentially aggressive of honor and confidentiality, is certainly analogous if not even greater, than that of the author of the single piece, precisely because it translates into the editorial line of an entire editorial staff. The ancillary penalty of the ban, in this case, failing the detention, becomes the real penalty, other than accessory: that is the serious penalty, that is the ban for the journalist who committed a fact that has damaged the honour of others. What do we do with this measure? Let's say that doesn't even apply this ancillary penalty, in case the subject isn't relapsed. I do not believe that this last and final arrangement can be shared. Forza Italia, my Group, in the general lines of the measure, shares the exclusion of the detention of the journalist, an ancient and fascist system, but would like the measure to solve equally important issues, which in the end can make a product more appreciated, current and shared by everyone. Gentlemen, the mass society has neither an audience in its own sense nor a relatively independent public opinion, compared to the large mass sources of information. If we are good, we must achieve the best balance that Mr Costa, the author of the text, had imagined, and I thank him for his parliamentary initiative. We can do this, we are still in time, and I appeal to the rapporteur for this measure which I hope can be fired from this House together. I greatly appreciated the intervention of Senator D'Ascola, whom I share, who recommends that we wait for the effects. We do not entrust to the jurisprudence, Senator D'Ascola, the correct interpretation of the norm however; we try as legislators to make it as clear and punctual as possible. We do not expect the judges to do so; we have the qualities, the ability and the power to make the rule clear so that a judge, in his own judgment, will have to do nothing but apply in a technical and strictly perfect manner the rule that we dismiss today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u53	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed time to speak on this rule. We all remember the period of bribes, the era of great excesses and the great complaints from which the first proposals started. I am referring to the one signed by Gargani, presented after the case of the two suicides of socialist Sergio Moroni and manager Gabriele Cagliari broke out. At that point we became sensitive to the possibility of damage that can still arise from the spread of facts to the limit still not true. Specifically, he even proposed to prevent the publication of information on investigations. The starting point was that a guarantee notice, filtered through newspapers and television, made the suspect appear as indeed already guilty. So the only remedy could be to avoid publication tout court. However, the bill rightly caught the opposite reaction of journalists and some parliamentarians until it came to a mediation so it came to think that it was possible to publish the reports of the judgments only at the end of the preliminary investigations. In fact, in today's speeches it has been pointed out that even a possible correction often does not necessarily fill the damage. However, this is still badly used today. I am referring, for example - and it is the subject of a parliamentary question which has been waiting for months to be answered - to the darkening of certain articles published on the Tuttoggi website. info of an Umbrian newspaper, who spoke on the case of an investigation of the People's Bank of Spoleto, although the investigation is now public and therefore out of the time of preliminary investigations. What, then, should we legislate today? At the same time, we must respect, precautionary and preserve the sacrosanct right to free information, giving full implementation to Article 21 of the Constitution, which establishes the principle that everyone has the right to freely express their thoughts by word, writing or any other means of dissemination, but at the same time precautionary those legal assets, in this case the esteem and protection of reputation, enshrined in particular in Articles 594 (delict of injury) and 595 (defamation) of the penal code. With this law we also intervene on the framework law of the press, that is, Law No. 47 of 1948, specifically dealing with Article 8 of this law, that is the right of correction that is also taken up in Article 2 of Law No. 69 of 1963 (establishment of the order of journalists). The Court of Cassation has repeatedly expressed itself and has reiterated and emphasized how important it is - in the same way as it is important to protect life and therefore it is necessary a criminal rule that sanctions those who harm this legal property, or property against those who steal - intervene criminally, with a precise rule, and sanction those who harm the honor that is not only, in the ratio, a widespread esteem in the social environment and that concerns the acquired professional decorum, but is also an indispensable minimum good of each individual. Therefore, in my opinion, it is right to intervene on the subject, in the most organic way possible and as far as possible when we intervene not through a single text but by merging several proposals of different laws that provide for amendments. Today, with the bill No 1119, we actually amend the House Act No 925 approved in October last year and on 30 October last it arrived in the Justice Commission to the Senate. After several months he returned to the Chamber and was told that the right time to look into the matter was not there. So let us always re-examine this difficulty to legislate well for a speech of procedures and regulations that perhaps we might even review. It is so important to intervene because, ladies and gentlemen, we are at 41st place in the area of freedom of the press. That's what the International Non-Governmental Freedom House says. We are after Niger, after Haiti, after Ghana, after Namibia and Jamaica, just to understand the extent of the problem. From this point of view, I believe it is essential to guarantee always and in any case freedom of the news but on the other hand it is necessary to equip the citizens with the appropriate means to protect the subject who is unjustly injured by slanderous news. A starting point, in my opinion, could be to improve the institute of correction that, if well used, can represent a fast and effective tool to meet those who consider themselves injured by untrue news. That is why I have tabled an amendment which states that in the front pages of newspapers, on-line newspapers and radio and television will have to indicate the name of a person responsible for the corrections to take charge of the requests and, if they are justified, to correct them in a short time, let us say seven days. If the journalistic newspaper does not publish the correction, the amendment must provide for a more rapid and simplified procedure, without prejudice to the competence of the ordinary judicial authority to protect the subjective rights, which gives the possibility to address immediately and free of charge to the Agcom who will act as the referee on the merits of the requests for correction. In practice, with this amendment I propose to give a role to Agcom on which there would be a lot to say and little of beauty, starting from the fact of the correctness of the expenses, of what it costs us compared to what we get. I remember, for example, that it has two offices, one in Naples and one in Rome and this, in times of crisis, can also be considered a waste. Let us consider that the expenditure is always borne by the citizens. It would be necessary, then, to deepen on the efficiency of this Authority that, despite the fact that the international agencies have relegated Italy to the posts we know in the rankings related to media freedom, in its last annual report, in the middle of the European Presidency, has not even bothered to ask the Government to account for the failure to resolve the conflict of interest or interference of the parties in the appointments of the boards of directors of the RAI or of the same authorities of guarantee of the sector. Well, with this intervention it would finally give this agency a concrete function, which will allow to have quick answers to the subjects who consider themselves injured by what is reported by a press or even other means of communication: radio, TV, Internet. It would be a way to reduce the burden of courts because many could choose this alternative, faster and less expensive route. I do not know if this has ever happened to you, but I have had direct experience in this regard during the election campaign in 2013 for the untrue statements that had been attributed to me: I tried to contact the director or author of the article, but it is such a company for which at some point we give up, if the arguments are not then so decisive. It is therefore also proposed to include, as is the case in France, a simplification of these procedures. It would be important, for example, for all the publications (newspaper pages, online newspapers or radio and television) to highlight, on the front page, the name of the person responsible for the corrections, who takes charge of the requests and who, where these are justified, arranges for the correction. [[Applause from Senators Mancuso and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u55	Senator Capacchione is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u56	Mr President, I must confess that I am a little uncomfortable to see that this House has been told, a profession that I have been in for more than three decades, in a way I did not know. You always learn something. I have discovered that there is a world of blackmailers, specialized slanderers, criminals who plot, plot and ordeal against everything and everyone, whereas in reality the profession of the journalist, however heavily burdened by the financial crisis, is quite different, without concealing that unfortunately there are some drifts that I do not want to silence, of behaviour that are free and very serious and that should be sanctioned perhaps even in a heavier way than we are predicting with this rule. However, I would like to remind you that stopping a serious journalist normal today, in times of economic crisis, with the publishing sector that is heavily burdened by financial difficulties, is actually a piece of cake. It is enough a lawsuit, which presents itself free of charge in any police office, a letter of warning in which it is sufficient to glimpse the possibility of a civil appeal with the request for a millionaire compensation, any form of pressure on the direction or even simply on the secretariat of the editorial of a newspaper to block an insidious inquiry, an embarrassing deepening, an important denunciation, even if documented and true. In order to move forward, I know from direct experience, we must have strong shoulders, a courageous director and a publisher who can afford to bear the legal costs of a judgment: conditions that now concern a small minority of Italian journalists. This draft law, while containing considerable elements of positive news and while addressing, as the rapporteur and other colleagues have pointed out, the issue of the need to decriminalize the matter, fails to overcome entirely prejudices and mistrusts concerning journalistic activity, with the right-duty to inform citizens, although guaranteed by the Constitutional Charter; a right which, I would like to remind you, belongs to the citizen and not to the journalist, who is and remains a means between the fact and the citizen, not between the citizen and the power, as I have also heard. In fact, this conception of the journalist, of the increasingly widespread opinion also in the vulgata, that journalists are the servants of power, forgers of truth, privileged exponents of a self-referential caste, defamators by profession, especially those who are rich. There is no other explanation for the difficulty of introducing in the measure a rule that protects journalists from reckless quarrels, from the increasingly frequent recourse to judicial action as a form of preventive censorship and the claim to impose fines equal to twice the annual salary of an average reporter, where rightly (I think of magistrates) for other categories is choosing the way of a considerably lower percentage than the annual income. For the magistrates it has been said that a higher claim would be a stake that would limit their activity and freedom of action. The same is true of journalists; for freelance journalists, without any protection, it is even more so. It is not my intention - I repeat - to defend that part of journalists who use the profession to promote other interests, let alone to protect those who use defamation as a systematic weapon of discredit. "Nobody wants to underestimate" - he recalled a few days ago Vincenzo Vita, who has dealt with the subject in the past legislatures - "the sacred protection of people (starting from citizens without power), but the abuse of the complaint leads to an objective censorship, being those who write about difficult topics - from procurement to organised crime - often hit by attacks in civil rather than criminal courts." They are behaviours that are very bad for the profession and that contribute to nourish the prejudice; behaviors that should be strictly sanctioned also by the professional order, first in the regional, even before a request for intervention is activated by third parties. I would like to remind you here that the text we are debating is being taken up, for the correction part, at a preventive stage of the possible judgment, so with a forecast of the possibility of crime that has not been formulated by any judiciary. Therefore, it is necessary to be particularly careful in publishing a correction that could be different from correcting a false news, since it is a intimidation or censory opinion about a newspaper that has published a real news. This of course involves, once again, a reflection on the need to intervene with a structural reform of the journalists' order, also because the information world is changing in a visible, dynamic and unpredictable way. When we talk about libel, we basically think about what happens on printed paper and in part on television, but in reality the world of information is moving almost entirely on the web, where there are all other dynamics. My colleague, Mrs Filippin, referred first to an affair that has concerned me personally, in very recent times, and which I bring to your knowledge because I believe that it can be of public interest precisely because of the repercussions it has had in the dynamics of ascertaining the identity of the author of what is a crime from us. I would like to make a brief point: after a political intervention on a question that concerned a municipality infiltrated by the Camorra, dissolved by camorristic infiltrations and where it was necessary to vote, a nickname on Facebook (notable to a collaborator of justice) addresses me, commenting on the intervention I had made in a parliamentary question with irreferable terms in this House and also elsewhere and blatantly defamatory. More for the author's personality and the context in which we were moving than for anything else (not attributing much importance to what happens on social networks), I made a complaint. This lawsuit took its course. I read you the answer that was received by the prosecutor when he asked for the identity of that nickname, which was a pseudonym, because that's what we're talking about and we'll talk about here a few months later: We regret to inform you that we have not been able to carry out this request because the statements contained in the Facebook page are protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution on freedom of speech, which enjoys a privileged regime in the United States. No one can be prosecuted for the exercise of this freedom, regardless of how unpleasant, offensive and disturbing the conveying content is. This is today's world and what it will be in the next few days. When we talk about defamation we must know that what tomorrow morning will not be available in any newspaper, in the forms contained in our legislation, is enough to post it on any profile more or less anonymous of a social network, to enjoy privileges and impunity that we inadmissible. So, going to legislate, we have to know that the enemy, if we want to define him - I am sorry not to see Senator Falanga in the Chamber - is not the poor journalist who publishes the news, sad and unfortunately true, of the indictment of an innocent father, accused of having raped a child suffering from cancer. This is a very regrettable fact, but it did not concern the responsibility of journalists, but of those who made that investigation. So this is not what we are talking about, but about the possibility of slandering unpunished and systematically on new platforms, on the new tracks on which the information moves, while we are going to look for the quill to block possibly serious and in-depth investigations on issues relating to the management of large business or large contracts or infiltrations malavitous, in regions that pay very high prices for these reasons. I would like to conclude by saying that I do not know how many fellow journalists today would have been able to resist a claim for damages of 600 billion lire of the time and how many people would have ascertained, obviously in fear of losing, a transaction on a fact that was true, ascertainable and subsequently established in court. I believe that even the great Italian newspapers today could not bear the impact of a request of this kind, which has also been made and that even with the measure under consideration would not be sanctioned under any circumstances. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u57	There are many reckless demands on defamation, some of them have also been discussed in this House and we will discuss them again. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u58	The next item is the government statement on prevention measures for the Ebola virus. I call the Minister for Health, Mr Lorenzin.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to provide, on behalf of the Government and in conjunction with the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, updated information - and also a brief representation of the development of the virus, since its appearance - regarding the ever-changing picture of the outbreak of the Ebola virus and, in particular, the further initiatives that the Government intends to take in order to counter the spread of the virus itself. As many people now know, on 21 March 2014, the Ministry of Health of Guinea notified the World Health Organisation (WHO) of a rapidly evolving outbreak caused by the Ebola virus. Already on April 4, Italy, among the very first countries in the world - if not the first - issued a circular to recall the obligations and procedures related to the treatment and prevention of viral haemorrhagic diseases. This was, of course, also done by alerting our border offices and also by immediately activating coordination meetings between all the administrations involved. The outbreak started in the Forest region on the border with the Sierra Leone and Liberia states and subsequently involved the capital Conakry. The first case in Liberia was notified on 30 March and in Sierra Leone on 25 May of this year. It must be added that since December 2013, when the outbreak would actually begin, data from the World Health Organization were reported on 8 October, i.e. yesterday's day, from the latest WHO report, 8,011 probable, confirmed and suspected cases, including 3,857 deaths, with a lethality rate of around 46 percent, in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Such data - as is easy to understand - are subject to continuous variations. In Nigeria, where the Ebola virus was introduced in July from Liberia, 20 cases and 8 deaths were reported. In addition to the index case, secondary and tertiary cases occurred and, after the initial outbreak of Lagos, a cluster of cases was registered at Port Harcourt, with three confirmed cases. Only one case of imports from Guinea has been registered in Senegal, without further secondary cases. Both in Nigeria and Senegal, the 21-day health surveillance period has been completed, with no evidence of new cases of disease, which is very important given the high population and the great trade links between the two countries. Therefore, within a few days, if the situation remains stable, both Nigeria and Senegal will be able to be removed from the list of countries to be monitored in relation to the outbreak of the Ebola virus. In any case, it is stated that the WHO does not consider these two countries among those with wide and intense transmission. The current outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo, with 70 cases (of which the last isolated on 25 September) and 43 deaths (data updated yesterday), is completely independent from those of the West African countries. Surveillance measures are also being carried out in Congo against those who have come into contact with cases of disease which, to a large extent, have already exceeded the 21-day observation period without developing suspicious symptoms. Regarding the manifestation of the virus, as you know, the incubation period of the virus is on average 8-10 days, with a range of 2-21 days. I would point out that 21 days is the maximum period considered to prevent any kind of occurrence of the disease. At present, it is not possible to identify infected patients during the incubation period, as it occurs asymptomatically, not even with molecular tests. With regard to the mode of transmission (which I consider to be extremely important also for clarity among our citizens), the available scientific information, derived from the previous epidemics of Ebola, shows how the Ebola virus is transmitted through the direct count via skin or mucosal, with blood or other liquids, biological materials (saliva, faeces, vomiting, sperm), including salivary secretions, as well as indirect contact, by skin or mucosal, with objects contaminated with blood or other biological liquids (e.g. needles). There is no evidence of transmission of the virus by air. The likelihood of transmission of the virus changes during the course of the disease with the evolution of clinical manifestations. At the beginning, when only fever is present in the absence of vomiting or diarrhoea or bleeding, the risk of transmission is low. In late stages, when bleeding events appear, the risk is significantly higher and remains very high even after death. For this reason, the recommended isolation precautions are increased in relation to the phase of the care course, due to the risk assessment, i.e. the probability that the patient was actually exposed to an Ebola patient, stage and clinical course of the disease. So, we can say that the current epidemic in West Africa is caused by a strain of Zaire virus, Ebola virus, and it is the first Ebola virus epidemic that affects West Africa, the largest ever recorded by number of cases and geographical spread and the most complex in terms of management and control. In addition, this is the first time that this epidemic involves large cities. Then we will also talk about how the epidemic has evolved in the last month and how, as a result of this, Italy has been interested (in addition to the European safety committees, we have participated in theGHSA and, therefore, we are now in a global coordination regarding the fight against the spread of the virus). I would like to reiterate that all the organizations and analysts have said that the virus has been transmitted and has grown because of an inability of the countries in which it has burst to put in place health measures that for us would be basic: to track down contaminated people and to carry out the rehabilitation. Unfortunately, this has led to an exponential growth, on which we must absolutely intervene today, in order to prevent this virus from turning, not only into a great and further health tragedy, but also into a humanitarian tragedy, even with geopolitical consequences that he will speak of, certainly better than me, afterward, Deputy Minister Pistelli. As far as the risk is concerned, we have pointed out that the risk of being infected is obviously higher for health professionals and for the staff of humanitarian organisations providing medical care and care in the affected areas. They are advised to wear protective clothing, including masks, gloves, shirts and eye protection devices, and to implement appropriate measures to prevent and control infections. Comparing us again this morning with the Red Cross, it has emerged the need for a strong turnover of these operators, who are obviously subjected to a great stress, having also adopted precautionary measures greater than those planned for the protection of patients: they have no physical contacts between them, there is no exchange of hands, hugs, contacts of any kind, just to exclude any kind of contamination between the operators. In addition, yesterday, at the meeting we had with International Cooperation, we dealt with another issue: NGOs already apply moral suasion measures in their own right, in the sense that operators are not allowed to leave for 21 days. We will probably have to imagine, together with Cooperation, setting up compensation areas on the ground before we return to Europe. As regards the presence of the virus in non-EU countries, the United States of America has registered an import case. He is a citizen of Liberia who developed symptoms compatible with Ebola virus disease on September 24, 2014, about four days after arriving in the United States of America. This subject addressed for the first time a first aid service in the city of Dallas on September 26 and was put in isolation on September 28. Unfortunately, the subject died yesterday, October 8th. Since the person was asymptomatic during the journey, the persons who were on board the same aircraft on which the person was on board are not at risk; instead, there are ongoing contact tracing and surveillance activities against the persons who came into contact with the person while he was symptomatic, i.e. during the two days between the moment when the person had appeared in the emergency room and the time when he was placed in isolation. This case shows that the danger of the spread of Ebola virus disease can only be prevented by strict compliance with safety protocols, which in the American case have not been respected, given that the person, while presenting the symptoms of a possible infection, has not been immediately isolated from the first access to the hospital structure, which has resulted, in all probability, not to say certainty, that the said person has come into contact with other subjects, for the identification of which are in progress, as shown above, of the health research and surveillance activities, in order to be able to immediately arrange the hospitalization in an appropriate hospital environment when the first suspected symptoms are manifested. Also in the United States, a second case occurred in the State of Nebraska. It is a recovery operator who has worked in areas affected by the epidemic in West Africa. The European continent has also recorded, in recent days, the first case of an infected person. It is a non-professional nurse, that is, auxiliary, who would have contracted the disease in providing health care or in any case in caring for a patient, a volunteer of a humanitarian organization, who had contracted the disease in one of the African countries and had been brought back to his country of origin. This case, like the American one, would have occurred, as it seems to have emerged from the first findings of the administrative investigation ordered by the Spanish Ministry of Health still in progress, due to the lack of strict application of the safety measures. In the species, the nurse would have used the protective tools incorrectly, which shows the need for the health care personnel and, more generally, all those who provide care and assistance to subjects affected by the Ebola virus to be fully trained in the techniques of use of protective clothing, including masks, gloves, shirts and eye protection devices. We hope, of course, that the Spanish case will remain isolated, even if the WHO does not exclude the possibility of sporadic cases in Europe. However, the Spanish authorities have immediately identified and isolated the subjects with which the nurse came into contact. The other cases concern persons voluntarily imported (as they say) because evacuated from the countries affected by the epidemic: one already mentioned in Spain, which unfortunately died; one in the United Kingdom with stable clinical conditions; two in Germany, a Senegalese and a Ugandan, cooperating respectively for the WHO and Emergency, by stable conditions; one in Switzerland, Australian health worker of the International Federation of the Red Cross, considered as a person to be subject to investigation, but not as a probable suspected case. In Italy the numerous reports of suspicious cases - we have had many reports that have intensified in July and August due also to an alert system activated in the country - received so far to the Ministry of Health have been the subject of special epidemiological investigations and diagnostic investigation, as foreseen by the circulars issued, and have all had negative results. At the institute Lazzaro Spallanzani is currently hospitalized for observation an Italian doctor engaged in the non-governmental organization Emergency in Sierra Leone, who had had an exposure considered at very low risk with an Ebola case currently hospitalized in Germany. The person in question was completely asymptomatic at the time of his return to Italy, on October 3, with a journey from Freetown (Sierra Leone) to Casablanca (Morocco) in Fiumicino. To date, it is completely asymptomatic. The observation period will end on the 21st day following that of contact with the case, which took place on 26 September 2014. The report sent to us by the head of Emergency is very comprehensive. The person had been a day and a half before a farewell refreshment with other doctors, including this Dr. Michel, who was then taken to Germany, but there had been no physical contact between people. In direct or indirect relief with the person who then became ill the Italian staff present did not have any kind of direct contact. So what's going on at Spallanzani is a precautionary measure, which is appropriate and we hope it will end in the right time. The increase in the epidemic in West Africa has been confirmed by WHO epidemiological data and has been represented several times in recent weeks with an epidemic curve which is thought to have a peak of 20,000 cases after Christmas. A large number of international organisations have intervened and are taking action, as well as representatives of the military forces. Think of 3,000 people sent by the U.S. Army, 750 British. The Japanese and other global cooperation groups are obviously also taking action to stop the epidemic before it reaches a certain threshold. This leads us to identify stronger initiatives to prevent the spread of the virus having in the context thousands and thousands of Western people and it requires us to take further initiatives that must be added and to supplement those taken already in recent months and which have been mentioned in part. In this regard, I would remind you that the coordination of health measures at European level is under the auspices of the Health security committee of the European Union, which, in addition to the technical advice of the European Centre for Disease Control (ECDC), is based on the recommendations provided by the WHO. The temporary recommendations, issued by the Emergency Committee of the International Health Regulation of 8 August 2014, were repeated in this regard on 22 September 2014. Other forms of coordination for humanitarian and security aspects are covered by DG ECHO, i.e. humanitarian cooperation, and the Political Committee for Security (PSC). The Ministry of Health provided detailed provisions for the strengthening of surveillance measures at international points of entry (ports and airports), chaired by the maritime, air and border health offices, known as the USMAF, with the circular dated 4 April 2014 and subsequent ones (on 8 April, 8 August and 1 October respectively). We have 12 central USMAFs in Italy and 25 territorial offices. USMAFs are located within ports and airports and are a disease filter. They are the first structures to make hygienic and health surveillance on vehicles, goods and people arriving on the Italian and Community territory. The USMAF currently employs 448 people, 79 of whom are doctors (in Fiumicino we have 6 doctors and in Malpensa 7). The USMAF has activated indispensable operational connections with the emergency services of territorial health, both of the National Health Service, as well as of the airport sanitary services and of the ships. In order to allow the strengthening of the surveillance measures at the international points of entry, specific indications have been given that the release of the free health practice to the ships that in the previous 21 days have touched one of the ports of the Countries affected takes place only after verification, from the USMAF, of the health situation on board, while for what regards the aircraft has been recalled the necessity of the immediate reporting of suspicious cases on board in order to allow the hijacking of the plane to the designated sanitary airports under the International Health Regulations of 2005. The USMAF of the airports of Rome Fiumicino and Milan Malpensa, designated as sanitary airports, issued specific airport orders to regulate interventions in case of reports of suspected infectious diseases on board aircraft coming directly or indirectly from infected areas. The National Civil Aviation Authority and the General Command of the Harbour-Coast Guards have been invited to lend their indispensable collaboration for the effectiveness and complete realization of these recommendations. Finally, with the circular of 1 October, indications have been provided not only on national reference centres and clinical centres at the level of autonomous regions and provinces where cases of Ebola virus infection, suspected or confirmed, can be managed, but also on the methods of stratification of the epidemiological criterion based on the risk of exposure, the initial assessment and management of suspected or confirmed cases of Ebola virus disease, the means of transport, the precautions to be taken for the protection of health professionals, measures against those who come into contact with disease cases. These measures, if they are certainly suitable to identify and deal with cases that present a symptomatic picture of a possible Ebola virus infection, are not sufficient for those who show such symptoms only after their arrival on the European continent. Please note that at the moment Italy is only receiving direct flights from Nigeria, a country that, as has been said, has had an outbreak of secondary and tertiary cases linked to a single case imported in July 2014 and that in the near future, remaining the situation of absence of new cases, can be removed from the list of affected countries. These direct flights arrive on a quarterly basis at Fiumicino airport, where the USMAF is ready to intervene in the event of suspected cases, as well as for any other source. All the other affected countries (Guinea, Libera, Sierra Leone) are connected to Italy only by indirect flights, which make European hubs (Brussels, Madrid, Lisbon, Paris and others) or North Africa. As a result, travellers from the affected areas could arrive in Italy via flights from Community or non-Community countries. The measures we would like to take to strengthen the system are as follows: to strengthen and strengthen the procedures for the identification of those who may have infected already in the African countries affected by the epidemic before their boarding on aircraft destined for one of the continental airports (this makes necessary the cooperation of the countries involved and of all the NGOs present, but in this regard will better report the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation); to identify the same subjects at the time of disembarkation, in order to provide the same complete information through the installation at airports of information boards and the distribution of information leaflets that already exist, but that must be even more evident and more capillaries on the behaviour to be kept in the hypothesis that in the days after their arrival the symptoms of a possible infection are manifested. In this regard, I would point out that, in view of the coordinating role of all the European Health Ministers that I am responsible for this six-month Italian Presidency of the European Union, I have already taken steps to ensure that this information campaign is carried out in a uniform manner in all the countries of the European Union by convening yesterday a Health security committee, supported in this action by the current European Health Commissioner Borg. As for the operation Mare nostrum, which arouses concern from the epidemiological point of view, the participation of the Ministry of Health, with own doctors, to the activity of the Navy military (which we have begun to carry out from the 21 june and from then to the day we have carried out more than 80,000 health checks on board the ships, a huge number, and for this I thank the doctors of the Navy and the doctors of the National Health Service that are providing an extraordinary job) is aimed precisely to allow, when still the migrants are on board and before the disembarkation on the Italian territory, the health checks in order to ascertain the presence of signs and symptoms suspicious of infectious diseases, according to the international health regulation of the WHO. To date, the possibility of people suffering from Ebola disease coming through this channel, because of the incubation terms we were talking about before, is really very low. In the event of the absence of the doctor of the Ministry of Health on board, the checks shall be carried out on the ground. We therefore want to stress that there are two checks: most of the checks are carried out on board; if there is no doctor from the National Health Service, the check is carried out on the ground, before the sorting of migrants to the various reception centres. We have already requested, on 12 September, a specific additional appropriation, under the Stability Act, to strengthen the purchase of individual protective equipment. In fact, it seems necessary to equip the aforementioned personnel who carry out all these operations with additional tools, which allow to identify suspicious cases, such as: distance meters of the body temperature, masks, gloves and other, in order to allow the treatment of the same with all the consequent safety precautions. All these initiatives require, as I have already told you, some additional resources, both in terms of personnel and economics, for the possible implementation of screening of entry (at the moment considered by the European Centre for Disease Control of doubtful cost-effectiveness and utility compared to screenings coming out of the affected areas) and for the distribution of information material. In this regard, in addition to the inclusion in the bill of stability of a proposal for a standard for the enhancement of medical staff at the peripheral offices of the Ministry of Health for international prophylaxis activities, on 11 September 2014 the Ministry of Economy and Finance was asked to supplement the budget chapter intended not only for the purchase of prophylactic material, non-recurring medicinal products, vaccines for international prophylaxis activities, but also for the publication and dissemination of data and materials for the prevention of infectious diseases, including personal protection devices. At Community level, following the conclusions adopted by the extraordinary European Council of 30 August last year, there are a number of activities in support of the countries concerned, involving the Member States and the Commission's structures, primarily Directorates-General ECHO (humanitarian cooperation) and DEVCO (cooperation and development), which are working to coordinate the on-the-spot interventions that Mr Pistelli will be talking about. I believe that these initiatives are the main way forward to support the countries affected in the fight against the epidemic and in the effort to rebuild the health systems that have collapsed from this emergency. European bodies also work with the United Nations, its agencies and non-governmental organisations operating in the area. The President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, spoke about this issue in his recent address to the United Nations Assembly. We are also aware that it is difficult to implement a mechanism shared by all, aimed at the medically assisted, high-biocontent evacuation of European citizens affected by the disease. In this regard, it should be pointed out that very few countries in Europe, including Italy, possess all the resources necessary for this eventuality (appropriate air vehicles, ambulances and special stretchers, personal protective equipment, specialised teams of trained personnel and shelter facilities in isolation). Italy is one of the very few countries in Europe that can guarantee the evacuation of its citizens, from taking charge of the patient in the context area to loading on board in full isolation, to the transfer in absolute isolation in hospital (in this case, the institute Lazzaro Spallanzani of Rome), to the treatment in structures at the highest level of biocontent. The overall availability of beds of different levels of isolation in the European Union is 244 units (although they are considered to be of different levels and grades, according to our standards). Of these, 21 units, however with high isolation, are located in Italy. Only 6 countries, to which Sweden will soon be added, have adequate air vehicles for evacuation, 9 countries have equipment for transport in isolation, i.e. stretchers, and medical staff specifically prepared for such activities. Apart from the problems of interoperability between different types of equipment acquired by the different Member States, the possibility of making them available to non-nationals must take into account the fact that this is a very small number of resources across Europe. We therefore believe that it is very important to be able to work on the ground, i.e. in West Africa, in the construction of structures capable of helping operators as well. Various Community structures are working on these issues, in particular the Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC), which is part of the Community Civil Protection structures. The use of military aircraft is being dealt with by the Political Security Committee, which has gathered further information on the availability of member countries these days. In this context, Italy, at its recent informal meeting of Health Ministers in Milan on 22 and 23 September, considered it appropriate to promote a debate on this subject. I would remind you that the Ministers present have reiterated their willingness to coordinate the responses and to work together on an effective and rapid mechanism for action. To the above, I would add that, precisely in these hours, we are considering the possibility of sending mobile health facilities to areas affected by the epidemic, in addition to those already present, of Spallanzani, duly equipped for the treatment of patients, as well as voluntary health personnel who are willing to go to these countries, in order to lend their activity. I conclude my report, which I hope has been comprehensive, by also thanking all the Italian operators and co-workers present at the moment in West Africa, who have been working for months in very heroic conditions, because hundreds of lives have been saved thanks to their intervention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u60	I call Mr Pistelli, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u61	Mr President, my speech will be very brief, simply supplementary, because the picture presented by Minister Lorenzin has been absolutely broad, comprehensive and detailed and has often referred also to interventions that have been carried out by the Italian NGO system in the international context. Moreover, Minister Lorenzin and I were at the first extraordinary meeting in Brussels to respond to the Ebola virus crisis on 15 September, the week preceding the informal meeting of Health Ministers, to which the Minister referred. I say this in order to testify how the Italian Government, together with the others, is concerned about the gravity of the Ebola emergency and that it follows it carefully, in collaboration with all public and private institutions that can bring some added value in the fight against the spread of the virus. I would like to point out, since we are present in those countries with many of our projections, that the current emergency is not only of a health type, because it impacts very heavily on the economic fabric of the affected countries, with less signs of a very important recession, on their prospect of growth, on their social cohesion and on their public order. For this reason it is essential that our work responds to a plurality of instruments and an integrated logic, never abandoning the countries in question after the phase of the most acute difficulties, such as the current one, but also trying to accompany, with the instruments of support for development, the successive phases. I would like to make three points. With regard to the first, in the European Parliament and in the context of the United Nations, we strongly supported the establishment of an international health mission, as proposed and advocated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon. As I have just said, we believe that an approach aimed at coordinating efforts is the only one that can effectively combat a health crisis which, otherwise, in its worst projections, takes on an unprecedented complexity and dimension. In systems that tend, if left alone, to collapse, the management of information and effort is also part of the response that we are putting in place. As Minister Lorenzin reminded us, our country - let's face it when it is needed and when it is possible - is in the absolute vanguard in the field of biocontent. The Air Force has two strategic arrangements for the safe transport of patients possibly affected by the virus and the already mentioned Institute Spallanzani, not alone, is however a center of excellence worldwide for the treatment of infectious diseases of this kind and is able to accommodate up to twelve patients. We have already sent two mobile laboratories of the same institute to Guinea Conakry and Liberia and, as you know, there are a number of Italian NGOs that have been active, already before, at this time in West Africa, especially in Sierra Leone. Overall, at this precise moment, we are talking about something more than 50 operators in the three particularly affected countries. On this very issue, namely the protection of the health and safety of health and humanitarian workers, I would like to reassure you that Italy is available - and also has the capacity - to support medical evacuation operations for any infected international and national personnel. What I want to say, and that we have reiterated in the European Parliament, is that the many operational problems - see under the heading 'interoperability', as the Minister mentioned - and financial problems (every single intervention is extremely expensive) have made us take a position of assessment on a case-by-case basis in the case - unfortunately - of a request and we have avoided easy European automation when we are not sure that interoperability is guaranteed at the levels of safety and standards of effectiveness that we are able to guarantee. The second question is the intervention of Italian cooperation. On the response front, since this summer, cooperation has started a programme of an initial total amount of approximately €1.7 million, consisting of two contributions: one on the WHO (which is obviously the leading organisation of regional level) worth €440,000, and a bilateral initiative of €1.2 million for the financing of care, prevention and information activities - all three absolutely of equal importance - conducted by Italian NGOs present in the region and the sending of Italian medical staff from the Spallanzani Institute in Rome. Thanks to the so-called mission decree (second half of 2014), we will be able to raise this mountain of resources up to five million euros, taking into account the evolution of the situation on the ground. It has already been said by Minister Lorenzin that some strains, such as those in Congo, have been isolated and that the situation in Nigeria, which would be the most problematic case, given the size of the country and also the number of fellow countrymen present, is being resolved. So we act on specific contexts as the virus manifests and moves. In addition, we can do this by working through the humanitarian bases of the United Nations, both the one we host in Brindisi, where we financed for about 20,000 euros (it seems little but they count so much) shipments to Sierra Leone of medical materials and equipment of easy consumption that were intended for the two NGOs most active in the country, that is, ENGIM and Emergency. As the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, we are also increasing our efforts to advocacy new resources and to coordinate the response to the epidemic at European level, and we are trying to promote, by maintaining high standards, common and consistent responses to the guidelines that the WHO has given us in recent months. From this point of view, I just want to re-emphasise the commitment of the two Ministries of Development and Health which have met several times over the past few weeks precisely with the aim of coordinating and integrating this great organizational and financial effort of the Commission. I translate this second point, if you like, into an easy-to-understand slogan: the more we do and the more we spend now and with targeted capacity, the smaller the potential subsequent impact. So the speed and our ability to have a quick response on the ground, clearly, containing, arginating and selecting, prevents the various scenarios that the WHO proposes to us from happening the worst. The more we do now, the less we do later. Allow me, but not for a global vocation but for an observation of the reality on the ground, to express my and our solidarity to the affected countries that are put to the test by this dramatic emergency and are really demonstrating a great determination and courage, as I associate, together with the Minister, with the thanks for the hundreds of health workers and volunteers, also international not only those Italians, who risk their lives every day in often very difficult conditions because, I repeat, there are those who work on patients, there are those who work in the villages to spread awareness and information on the behaviours to adopt, there are those who even do work of extreme risk like the burial teams that are employed, precisely, in the burial of the victims. It is truly extraordinary staff from various countries. Our main NGOs are working in all these areas. Finally, the third point concerns the initiatives taken by the crisis unit, which, as you know, is a bit our unit dedicated to this kind of emergency. We have been monitoring since the first moment, that is, since the news was not so evident in public communication, the diplomatic and consular offices located in the most affected countries and, above all, we have individually monitored the compatriots present in Liberia, Guinea, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Senegal and Sierra Leone. I repeat: in some circumstances we are talking about numerous communities, I am thinking of the more than 1,000 compatriots we have in Congo or the more than 2,000 we have in Nigeria, while in the case of the three most affected countries, Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, the sum does not reach 150 and in any case they are almost all military or religious operators who have been on missions for many years already. We have, in synergy with the other countries of the European Union, taken care to keep constant the safety and health warnings present on the institutional sites, designed to "www.viaggiasicuri.it", suggesting substantially to our compatriots, as you can verify, to avoid, except in cases of absolute necessity, travel to the three countries mainly affected by the pandemic (Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone). Minister Lorenzin has given you very useful information, instead, with reference to the behaviour of the airlines and circuits that we are monitoring, when you can arrive in those countries only triangulating with other European or North African capitals. We are also publishing an in-depth focus on the epidemic always of the crisis unit, done with the help of Medical intelligence, which is the information and security department of the Defense Staff and has been sent to all diplomatic offices concerned a vademecum, made together with this department, with all the precautionary behavioural norms, to avoid contracting, in any form, the virus, which has been distributed, of course, to all the countrymen present there. In the next few days we will put the same information on the website "www.viaggiasicuri.it" for anyone who only had compelling needs to go to the same countries. Finally, I said, we are continuing the mapping of Italians in the area, both in terms of geographical location and type of presence. I open a very short parenthesis: many of these countries, which are small compared to other African countries, are, however, in absolute, very large countries, so when we talk about outbreaks of epidemics, we talk about outbreaks that are well located in some areas of that country, which means that you can stay in that country for other reasons maybe standing 2,000 kilometers away. This is to put those countries in the right dimension compared to ours. This mapping, however, is shared with all the competent Directorates-General of the Ministry of Health and, of course, with all other Community partners, so that in case of evacuation the information is fully shared. Finally, e-mail alert and telephone mapping of our presences and sending medical material to diplomatic and consular offices in Nigeria (embassy in Abuja and consulate general in Lagos) as precautionary measures also for the present staff. This is an extremely insidious challenge, the Italian Government has taken it as it should have taken it, that is, quite rightly seriously, and our role as Presidency of the European Semester has also put us in a position to further stimulate cooperation and cooperation with other partners. We must not create any panic effect, but we must not underestimate what we are facing and it is important to act very quickly and quickly because what we do today will prevent us from having unpleasant consequences tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u62	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u63	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Lorenzin and Deputy Minister Pistelli for the comprehensive information they have provided to us, who have studied the issue in a very precise way both from the epidemiological and health point of view and with regard to the integrated vision, which we fully share, which the Deputy Minister has emphasized to us. I believe that this is the only way we can go, although there are two aspects that I would bring to your attention. The first aspect is that of greater accompaniment and closeness to those research centres currently carrying out research in particular with regard to the development in the production of possible vaccines, which I believe are a very particular aspect to be taken into account, since they can give a very useful response to the prevention of the disease itself, also because we must take into account the fact that either we play in terms of primary prevention, together with secondary prevention, or we do only secondary prevention, but in this case, also because research in this field is giving us the first, timid results, we would obviously do an improper work. I therefore ask that there be an absolute and concrete closeness - I ask Minister Lorenzin to pay some attention to this passage, to us particularly dear - especially to those research centres that are developing very thoroughly, and are at an advanced stage, the development of vaccines that can be extremely useful again. Another critical issue is that of the latency period, where any preventive intervention, we must tell ourselves with extreme clarity, it is almost useless, because within those eight, ten days the pathology is asymptomatic, so we have no chance to identify markers that allow us to define the subject not only at risk, but eventually bearer of the pathology. One aspect that I put to the attention of Deputy Minister Pistelli, who has already dealt with it, is that of taking action, especially on the ground, because, also because of the immediacy of relations and contacts at international level, any attempt, however rigorous, can be carried out at the level of the various European nations, I do not think it can give a full answer except for that programme which you have submitted to our attention, and which we fully share, of intervention at local level, especially in those areas which are high-risk. Only in this way, through aid that is not only economic, but preventive and health care, can we give a complete answer. One thing I fear at the health level: that, if the interventions are not as rapid and rapid as they have been identified by both reports, a fearsome mutation of the virus can be encountered, the consequences of which, of course, are to say the least dramatic, because we would move from an epidemic vision to a pandemic vision and I believe that this is a further aspect. Vice Minister Pistelli - I am quickly beginning to conclude - recalled the possibility of bringing data that are easily accessible to everyone on the site "viaggiare sicuri". I would ask that on the site, integrating this right collaboration with the Ministry of Health, also data relating to epidemiology and centres of reference or excellence that in Italy can be of help in the context of consultations by all doctors. Finally, not least of course, I would like to see more information on the media, in a paper version and not only that, so that everyone is aware of it - as Mr Lorenzin mentioned just now - in an even more widespread way and so that everyone can have the information in real time and concrete. Many times, in fact, in a vast sea of information, we know that too much information corresponds to no information. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u64	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u65	Mr President, I will not dwell on the aspects of the matter dealt with by Deputy Minister Pistelli, but rather on those dealt with by the Minister of Health, to ask for a few simple things. I would like to point out that, as a biologist, I can say that this is a terrible virus, which has a very high level of virulence and diffusion, so the simple contact with surfaces on which the virus has taken root involves the transmission of the disease. It is therefore not the avian, which, however fearful, was a much less contagious virus. The Minister made circulars, alerted and did a whole series of serious and appropriate things. But I, not to serve the Minister, this morning I made a couple of phone calls to friends that I have around some hospitals in Southern Italy and I received the same answer from everyone: the circular was given to them in vision and they were learned of it, but the only thing they had perceived is that, in the case of a patient suspected of affection to the Ebola virus, they should have called the Hospital Spallanzani. It does not seem to me a particularly effective filter, especially in those border areas (see Lampedusa and other areas of Sicily) where hundreds, if not thousands, of people (in twenty-four hours the other day have arrived) who can be potential incubators of the disease. As far as the information aspect is concerned, I would like to point out to the Minister that the Ministry's website is still free of any indications or information in this regard. The U.S. Ministry of Health site, for example, has already released a series of simple information on the routes of transmission of the virus and the primary attention that every citizen, in case he is in a similar situation, must follow appropriately. It would be advisable to inform people who are not aware of the facts; not everyone reads the newspapers and not everyone knows what a virus is and what an epidemic is. It would be appropriate to explain which transmission vehicles are and which basic hygiene standards can buffer this type of disease spread. It is therefore a question of ensuring that in the Hospital Spallanzani or in other hospitals (I imagine the Cotugno of Naples and I can imagine that there are hospitals in Sicily that treat infectious diseases) more places can be arranged, because, in the damn hypothesis that we were to be a source or vehicle of infection, I think we must prepare ourselves for the worst and therefore I think that twelve places are not a great quantity. So, if possible, since it is money well spent, I ask if you can equip other hospitals: I made the case of the Cotugno di Napoli and I also think of some other hospital located in Sicily. We would do well, in fact, to equip these hospitals with the appropriate facilities. I would like to remind the Minister of something else. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I have concluded. To cure this affection, we are talking about an experimental vaccine, son of the research of some Italian researchers and biologists, which is produced by GlaxoSmithKline, which, being a private enterprise, will obviously look at the profits, as it is right that it is. Minister, in this House we are waiting very patiently for the legal and scientific procedures for clinical trials to be approved. If it is possible to approve them during this parliamentary term, we will also have those paths that will allow us, not only in cases such as Stamina or Di Bella, but also in cases such as the one in question, to activate procedures to which the State will be able to chair non-profit or profit. One final point and I shall conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u66	You must conclude, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u67	D'ANNA (GAL). I'm done, ma'am. We have military health and, in particular, a group in which I myself have militated, namely the Army's chemical biological nucleus. I wonder why we don't use it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u68	Mr President, perhaps the Minister's information wanted to be reassuring, but in fact the actual data are not at all. The forecasts say that the epidemic will become worse, the deaths are increasing, the contagion does not stop and the first confirmed cases in Europe and the first suspicious cases in Italy are beginning to register. The picture is certainly not the most reassuring. It is not enough that health protocols are effective in ports and airports, where we believe that only a few tens or hundreds of people arrive in the countries affected by the infection. The truth is that most of the infected potentials arrive in Italy thanks to your Mare nostrum and certainly not through planes and or ships. Has military and civilian personnel involved in first contact with illegal immigrants actually received adequate training? It was said that he had received it in the past times when this procedure had begun; in fact, we know that many of the personnel and our military then contracted contagious diseases, such as tuberculosis or scabies. What guarantees do we have that the same cannot happen even for a much more serious disease, such as Ebola? If the prophylaxis against the diseases I mentioned did not work, why should they work for Ebola? I think the data says we're at risk and it's a very high risk. We believe that these about 150,000 illegals arriving in one year, at a rate of about 500 per day, cannot be effectively controlled. It is unbelievable that with few doctors we can control the health situation and their health condition, in the very lively stages of these landings. You want to reassure us, but in fact the visits are absolutely summary and inadequate; this is a fact, that you may want to hide, but that is inevitable. Subsequently these people are shipped throughout the national territory, without any precaution. They do not remain in the places where they arrive for a sufficient time to ascertain that they are not actually infected, that is for the twenty or thirty days you were talking about. Public transport is then used to take them to hotels and reception centres. We know that the prefectures predate the local transport companies and in fact seize the means, which are the same then used during the scheduled service in our Provinces and cities and, therefore, without any precaution. Beyond the costs for the community, where is health security in this procedure? There is a lot of money, thousands of euros, spent within Mare nostrum and it seems, even from your words, that the flow of money will increase inexorably and constantly in the coming months and years. How can you guarantee that none of the illegals arriving on our shores are ill with Ebola? How can you guarantee the verification of the origin of illegal immigrants? Do you know exactly where each one of them comes from? Do you hold them for a sufficient number of days to ensure that they are not ill? You had to answer these questions, but you didn't. It seems to me that you are entrusting this serious and worrying affair to luck and good luck. This is not - in our view - a correct way of acting on the part of a responsible Government. The shortcomings of today's information, those answers you have not given us, do not reassure us and do not convince us at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u69	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak in my speech more as a doctor than as a senator and I must say that, as a doctor, I am very satisfied with what I have heard. I am in opposition, but when I hear the right things that anyone can say, I think that we must not always and necessarily exploit situations. In this field, Italy, fortunately, is recognized as one of the most avant-garde countries. In my opinion, we will have to act on two aspects. The first is that of information, which tends forcefully to create a useless panic or in any case to divert information according to the political part in which we are in the military. With regard to the fact that cases have increased considerably, we must bear in mind that Ebola has existed since 1976 and the number of cases has always been around 400-500. When six or seven months ago I was wondering if there was any concern about Ebola, I responded negatively, because in reality the spread of the virus was limited to very isolated villages, where there was no great communication. We must specify that the large spread does not occur through migrants, but above all by the fact that many Chinese go to deforestation in areas affected by the virus, feed on bats and antelopes and also work in mining companies, giving rise to what is called bushmeat, which involves the spread of the virus from animal to man. Among other things, I read that, according to the World Health Organization, on 1 October, the cases of Ebola were 7.492, of which 3.439 are the dead. But I remember that we are talking about almost every case in Africa. If I have to believe what you told me - and I don't see why I shouldn't believe it at this stage, since it is - it means that there is an organization that works. I remember that the Hospital Spallanzani is an excellence worldwide, not only Italian. We know there are safe air transport, which almost only we have. Finally, we must bear in mind that, if we are to do prevention and organization, we must do so in the countries of origin. Faced with three and a half billion air passengers, it is unthinkable to worry about migrant boats. It is true that we do not have direct airports, so we will be able to come into contact with people who have taken the virus in other nations. However, we must also clarify another concept: if it has been present since 1976 and has not changed, we must not even think that the Ebola virus is like a flu virus. The Ebola virus doesn't turn like the flu virus, year after year, it's always the same and we hope it stays the same. The only advice I would like to give Minister Lorenzin is this: since it seems that we are very close to finding a vaccine (there was also the scoop that maybe we had found it), we dedicate some money to this research and innovation. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussini and Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u71	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u72	Mr President, since the situation cannot be managed as ordinary, but as extraordinary, the Minister has called for an increase in funds in the law of stability for USMAF and for control of ports and airports. If there is no increase in the funds you have requested, are there any other ad hoc funds, or will the European Union provide a further economic contribution? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Anitori, there is no possibility of reply from the Minister, who will then respond later or through other channels. She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Lorenzin and Deputy Minister Pistelli for the information they have made, timely, comprehensive and, in my opinion, perfectly understood in the objective, which is to calm us down. The virus in all of us raises a great deal of concern, even at a global level, fueled by the press and the media that report reports, sometimes alarming, on the levels that this epidemic is reaching. I must say, however, that, listening to the report, I can say that our country is certainly doing everything that is necessary and everything that a phenomenon of such extraordinary scope requires, also and above all in the coordination that I understood from the vice minister Pistelli. I was struck by the case of the emergency doctor who was admitted to the Spallanzani hospital, to whom I hope, on behalf of the whole Group, that the case will not be real and will be denied and that, following the completion of the protocol, it can be declared out of danger. It is clear that what we are listening to shows us, unfortunately, that the data are constantly evolving, as is the case with the nurse in Spain. This is what gives rise to the great fear that, if the epidemic were to reach the great metropolises, then isolation would be difficult. I also understand the intervention of my colleagues from the League, who are trying to exploit the fact that our country is in a particular situation in the Mediterranean, which depends on its geographical location. However, I would also like to thank Minister Lorenzin for the precise reference to the situation, which sees the entrances into the Mediterranean under control and does not give rise to concern. Despite all the things that I have heard, from which I note that the Government is taking every necessary initiative and precaution to reduce the risks, and despite all the preventive measures provided for in the international protocols, however I feel to address on behalf of the Group a heartfelt appeal to both Ministers, to the Minister of Health and to the Deputy Minister Pistelli, and to the whole Government, in general, so that this level of attention, this constant commitment in monitoring the situation and in the measures to be adopted continues incessant. I join myself, as the Ministers have done, with the pride of having our fellow countrymen so strongly engaged, that they put their safety at great risk, to prevent the spread of the disease and to bring their contribution to the countries that are in such great difficulty. This makes us proud of our country and our nation. [[Applause from Senator Esposito Giuseppe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u75	Colleagues Senators, I thank the kind Minister for finally coming to report on this very serious problem, since the first question was put in April when the epidemic was still detailed. When I made my first speech in this House, there were 80 deaths, 300 deaths; today we are 3,500 deaths and the infected increase at the rate of 200 new deaths every day. The president of the United States, Barack Obama, has launched the alert despite his nation being beyond the ocean and has sent resources and troops to Africa to help humanitarian organizations that are strenuously trying to counter the virus. The WHO director said yesterday that new cases of Ebola in the old continent are quite inevitable. I would like to point out that here we are not faced with the usual mad cow-style psychosis or avian influenza; we are talking about an aggressive mutagenic virus that has already claimed thousands of victims and has a mortality rate of 90%. The risk is real, closer to us, than to all other Western countries. In addition to airport controls, in fact, we remember that through Italy migratory flows from Africa come and, therefore, our nation, which is the door of Europe, is particularly at risk. I know that you, Minister, have prepared additional security protocols to address the Ebola threat. But are the security protocols implemented? My colleague from the House, Mrs Spadoni, asked her this morning what measures you are taking to protect flight operators. I, on the other hand, as a nurse, ask you what measures, I hope, are exceptional and urgent, which you are taking to protect medical staff in hospital facilities. I would remind you that in Spain it was a nurse who was the first victim of the infection of the Ebola virus; this happened, it seems, because of the lack of training and the insufficient measures that had been taken in the Spanish hospital. If I were you, Minister, I would personally go to ports and airports to check that security protocols are being implemented: it must be checked that operators are prepared at each airport and that equipment is the most suitable. In large ports and airports there should be exercises to confirm the preparation of operators. In order to eliminate the risk of spreading the virus, it would be appropriate to arrange a period of observation for all travellers arriving from countries at very high risk, also because we know well that our health system is on their knees and would hardly be able to manage an extensive epidemic. These are our proposals. Prevention is the only thing we can do to avoid disastrous scenarios since there are no safe vaccines. If we continue to treat this epidemic sufficiently and do not commit ourselves to 100%, we really risk a catastrophe. Ebola has two to twenty-one days of incubation and the virus is very aggressive and we have no 100% certainty that there is no transmission mutation even during the incubation period. We do not want to be alarmists, but we must prepare ourselves seriously and rigorously, with prevention at all ports and airports. For this reason I suggest the establishment of a toll-free number for Ebola, as in the past has been done for other infectious diseases. When we accepted the mandate, we took responsibility for providing security and informing citizens. That is why I repeat: prevention, prevention, prevention. Minister, I conclude the speech with a Neapolitan joke: I hope I'm okay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u76	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, Mr Vice-Minister, I realize that we all have an obligation - both Government and Parliament - to keep our guard up so that we do not find ourselves unprepared in the face of such an emergency. On the other hand, there is also a need to avoid an oversized alert status from the actual extent of the phenomenon. It is therefore a question of finding a balance, although of course, as always happens, reaching it is particularly complicated. The counter-indication is confusion and then I start from the confusion, which we must oppose. The crisis caused by the Ebola virus is a threat to international peace and security: not only a health emergency, but a real humanitarian, economic and social crisis. Margaret Chan supported him on August 8th. On that same day, European Health Commissioner Borg said: There is a low risk of being infected. The situation in the European Union is not particularly at risk. It is very unlikely that the virus will reach Europe. We are still on August 8th: we have a hard release and a soft release. Another hard statement was released on 7 October, when Minister Lorenzin said that the situation is serious and that more controls are needed on Mare nostrum. The Minister for Health, during a hearing, made the point, highlighting the need to strengthen border control systems. Fifteen days earlier, another soft statement : "No immigration risk". The Minister assures that there is no risk to Ebola linked to immigration. And then he adds: At this moment, Italy is monitored at the highest level, as recognized by all. From this point of view we can be serene. I realize that for those who are part of the Renzi Government, being serene has taken on a meaning exactly opposite to what the expression suggests, but it seems to me that from these statements to be serene does not allow us to lower our guard. Today the President of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, who in Washington, during a weekend specifically organized on the problem of the spread of the virus, opened the proceedings saying that we have failed miserably on the Ebola problem. We should have done so much more and that many things should be done (infrastructure, prevention and so on). A warning to all countries. I would then like to make a few small points which I summarize here in five points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator, but you only have 40 seconds left. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). I'll be very quick. Tracing of travelers. There are 11 USMAFs: can they be enhanced? Can we increase the staff of doctors who seem inadequate to me? National reference centers: there are two, Spallanzani Hospital in Rome and Sacco Hospital in Milan. Can anything be done from Rome downstairs? Need it? Maybe I do. No therapy yet. There's nothing registered on the vaccines. Are we going to support research in this area and give serious and concrete support? Are we going to use military health care? Finally, I appreciated both the intervention of the Minister and the Deputy Minister. There is certainly a lot of good will. We need to get some order and get ready. I believe that it is absolutely necessary, especially in the European Semester, for a process of greater harmonisation of supranational legislative and regulatory levels as a goal in order to create a condition in which really in Italy - if we were ever good, but unfortunately we are not - we can be able to face on our own what is proclaimed as a real emergency, to which, with the help of everyone and without the speculation of anyone, we must arrive prepared. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u78	Senator Villari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u79	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of information on this matter is crucial. The report that we have heard, which is certainly comprehensive in many respects, is, however, lacking in one aspect which I believe is important and which I believe needs to be recovered. The mode of transmission of this relatively new pathogen also includes that which occurs through biological liquids and the parenteral route, so-called unappearing. I hear little about the reclamation of air conditioning systems, and this is a point I would like to point out. I remember in fact that at the end of the seventies, the beginning of the eighties broke out the legionellosis that spread through the ventilation system of the hotel in which the legionaries stayed. I remember that because we studied this case because it was new pathogens and because that is a low transmission vehicle - and we must avoid psychosis - but it is to be considered. It applies to airlines and nosocomi. I believe that this should be pointed out to the Government in order to make it its spokesman. The risks - I repeat - are low, but they must be considered. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u80	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u81	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Minister Lorenzin and Deputy Minister Pistelli not only for the quality of their response, but also for the speed with which they have agreed to come and report to the House, although I think that the best work is what we are going to do in the Commission where we will jointly monitor the progress of this matter in many dramatic respects, but for others that are not unexpected. I have to say that now that it can touch the West, the West wakes up. Allow me to make a point that comes a little bit from our history. At the same time, I can also say with pride (that I would like to be considered then when making the budgets of the State in these fields) that Italy is responding and can respond well, that it can be useful worldwide in those countries where the epidemic is present because it has good public health, the one that is missing in Africa, in those countries where the relationship between the doctor and the citizens is crazy (it is said that the relationship is one to 100,000), where there are no sanitary structures, where there are no hospitals. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are talking about situations that we do not know, places where there are popular beliefs, one of which is, for example, that the State is the one that brings the virus. I think the comments are rather useless, I say with great respect for those populations, but there is the knot of the distorted development of our world. That is where we have the greatest abandonment and that is where we must take action today. So I welcome what has been communicated to us today and the common intention to intervene not in a solitary way, like Italy, but as a Europe in connection with other international bodies, first and foremost to stop the epidemic there. In fact, we know perfectly well that if the epidemic is reduced it will be the possibility of infection in other countries. The virus will paradoxically be less mutagenic because it is circumscribed. The second point is safety. From this point of view too, I would like to say that there is always an ambivalence. Security is a fundamental value of the world, but it can also be the limitation of people, of their individual freedom. So I fully agree with the government that it doesn't produce as much unjustified alarm as cheap alarmism. Indeed, the WHO data are very clear. It is clear that we need control over the entry of migrants, as is quite obvious, but we also know that the risk percentage for migrants is much lower than that for the normal movement of goods and people, as evidenced by the fact that they are white, Western people, those who have been infected and that therefore, evidently, is not a problem related - once again - to the colour of the skin. I'm sorry to say this, but I think we can avoid using this to make racism. With regard to security, which I have mentioned, the strengthening of controls on airports and non-European citizens is very good. The Minister has spoken about this and I agree with his words to the full, because in Italy we do not have direct flights, but only indirect flights, and this is one of the major problems, namely the creation of a health cord for monitoring, prevention, control and risk management. I also agree with the fact that we cannot make a wedding with dried figs and that prevention and control require funding that must come, just as those for research must come. I am proud to live in a country where there are two centres of excellence - the institute Lazzaro Spallanzani in Rome and the hospital Luigi Sacco in Milan - and I am very proud that the vaccine is being studied in Italy, near here, in Pomezia, as well as in other centres. Sometimes it would be good for us to enhance our capacity at international level and to promote good research and good health, perhaps also focusing on this. The last thing I want to say is about operators: I think there is a risk for citizens and the biggest risk - as has been said, and I share this - is precisely for health professionals and non-governmental organisations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should finish your speech, thank you. DE BIASI (PD). I agree with the need to follow the safety protocols to the full, so it is useless to move patients from where they are, because this could cause a viral spread that can very well be avoided. The operators, however, are the first people to be helped and to give the opportunity to do prevention, of course, otherwise, if they also get sick, the situation will get worse. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude again, Senator, thank you. DE BIASI (PD). One last thing I would like to say, Mr President, is that the House seems as empty as it is careful for those who are there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is a problem of timing, not of attention, as with other colleagues, so I conclude. DE BIASI (PD). Of course, but we cannot postpone the problem of health conditions in Africa and the responsibility for the health of the European Union - let me say this in the six months - has a flaw, namely the risk that all attention will only be paid to the industrial sector. On the other hand, I think that we should focus a lot on health care: once again, even more so with Ebola, it is quite clear that development is freedom, but humanity's destiny is really one and only one. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u83	Colleagues, your presence is not obligatory, but the moon is forbidden.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u84	You have the right to intervene, Senator Giovanardi. [[Brusio]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). Colleagues, if you leave, do me a favor, you don't understand what I'm saying. Mr President, last Sunday, in dozens of Italian squares, meetings and demonstrations of the so-called standing Sentinels should have been held peacefully. They are people who gather for an hour in strict silence to read a book, in order to testify in defense of freedom of opinion and freedom to express their thoughts. In particular, this would be the case with the Scalfarotto bill which, as is known, would limit this freedom in relation to particularly important issues, and also in order to guarantee the right of all to express themselves, without any form of hatred or boycott of others, but rather by upholding the rights of all and non-discrimination against anyone. Unfortunately, however, in Bologna, Turin, Naples, Rovereto, Pisa, Trieste, Trento, Genoa, Aosta and Parma, the Sentinels were welcomed with insults, spits, blasphemy, kicks and fists, as the videos stand to testify, and were brutally attacked - I emphasize - with counter-manifestations organized in part by social centers and in part by associations of gay militants, who tried to physically prevent the simple fact of witnessing an opinion. Now, their opinion might have been different from that of the protesters, but Parliament will rightly be able to settle the issue: there are in fact several, very delicate ones - such as the one on which the Scalfarotto law is concentrated or the one on civil unions and gay marriage, which will have to be democratically resolved after an equally free debate has been held in the country. I would like to stress this point because it does not appear that in the Senate it goes unnoticed the fact that some Italian citizens, in many cities, were physically attacked at the time when they were trying to exercise their constitutional right. I would also like to urge the Government to respond promptly to the questions and questions put in this regard, also to ensure in the future that people such as those who, on Sunday, were elderly, mothers and children, had gone to the streets to make a completely peaceful witness, are no longer involved in scenes and events that could cause trauma.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u87	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, I rise to pay attention to you and to those who follow us the fact that in these days a trial, called Carosello, is resumed in the court of Naples (name attributed by the investigators because of the bubble ring with which the trafficking of toxic waste from the North was hidden towards the illegal and legal landfills of the acerrano agro and the Flegrea area, then in Napoletano). After having seen the charge of environmental disaster demanded by the public prosecutor decay as a result of the prescription and after the judgment of first instance ended with light sentences for serious crimes, we appeal to the magistrates and judges, in the hope that a fair trial can be held in fast times to prevent it from triggering the prescription again and that all the facts presented may have the right attention they deserve. Mr President, you will understand what it means to the citizens of the Land of Fires, who see their loved ones die every day in front of their eyes of cancer and cancer, also suffer the prescription for crimes as serious as the trafficking of toxic waste. It is unbearable and unacceptable. The 5 Star Movement has filed a bill, at the first signature of my colleague Cappelletti, which provides for the suspension of the prescription from the moment of referral to trial, which together with the bill Micillo approved to the Chamber and detained in the Commission here in the Senate, which finally equates the environmental crime to the crime, would solve, if approved, the problem of the prescription for these serious crimes. We could thus allow such delicate and complex processes to be carried out more peacefully and ensure greater justice for those who, on the other hand, feel that they are victims of it today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u90	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, Senators, on 28 May 2014 in this House, draft law No 1176 was adopted, which reads: "Istituzione del giorno del dono" (Istituzione del giorno del dono) was signed by Mr Ciampi, recognizing on 4 October each year the Gift Day. The measure in question, called Chamber Act No. 2422, is still under discussion in the Social Affairs Committee, pending its resolution. The lack of institutionalization (sorry the word a little 'difficult) by law did not however prevent the same day being celebrated. On the contrary, the Italian donation institute has organized various itinerant events starting from September 30 in Rome, October 2 in Milan and October 4 in Turin. I would like to thank all those who give time and/or money for social purposes. I thank all those who, at the beginning of the school year, have committed themselves to making schools more livable. For example, in my municipality - in Scandicci - some parents and grandparents have whitewashed and cleaned the classrooms of the school, making the environment more comfortable. In other municipalities, some parents, including senators, have donated a new furniture for the school. I thank the many of you senators who engage in social work, giving time and money. I thank the various personalities of sport and entertainment who are committed to this. I also thank the people of Lampedusa who gave and continues to give time and things to the many refugees, migrants and travellers of hope. It was a year ago when 400 people from Libya lost their lives on the so-called journey of hope. I would therefore like to thank the millions of ordinary citizens who commit themselves every day to volunteering and completing a service that would otherwise have no chance of being there. (Senator Bencini is moved.) I'm sorry, but every time I talk about donation, I get moved. Finally, I thank, but not least, those who decide in full well-being of life, to donate organs in case of death, or who also does not decide, but the family in front of a dramatic event opts for donation. It is said that for each of us as far as life is concerned there is only one passage from the way. Here, in this case those who give and especially those who receive have the possibility to review from the start. The donation of organs remains one of the most noble and altruistic gestures, but obviously it must be a gift and not a business, there must be no donation for profit, because, even if it may seem unlikely, this happens. I would therefore like to make an endorsement to the President of the Palma Justice Commission, who is very sensitive to this issue, so that the draft law No 922 is examined in the Commission at the first signature of Senator Maurizio Romani and also signed by me. I remember that our country will host, Saturday, October 11, in Rome, the 16th edition of the European Day for Organ Donation, an event promoted annually by the Council of Europe, together with which Italy currently holds the presidency of the committee for organ and tissue transplants. Thank you for your attention and sensitivity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u93	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry that Mr Lorenzin has left, because I could have made a heartfelt appeal to you directly. On October 5th, "Report" aired a shocking episode, denouncing a serious negligence on the part of the Higher Institute of Health, regarding the tests and the consequent certifications of the proper functioning of pacemakers. The conductor herself, Milena Gabanelli, even hoped that it was a hallucination, even preferring to be disbarred from the Journalists' Register, in order to be denied what she was denouncing. Gabanelli has not been disbarred, indeed today's news is that Pietro Bartolini, of the laboratory in which these tests should have been carried out, resigned. Minister Lorenzin, on the other hand, started with an administrative investigation. Here, we are here today to note yet another delay and yet another proof of the incompetence of our Minister, whom we, with a motion of distrust, invite willingly to return to his brilliant career as parliamentarians and to leave the Dicastery in the hands of someone able to assume the great responsibilities that lead a Dicastery as this imposes. Minister Lorenzin, against whom we presented a motion of no confidence already in June, following the Avastin-Lucentis affair (as if the Minister with a decree did not resolve at all), distinguished himself for not having intervened promptly and not having demonstrated its competence both in July, following the decision of the Constitutional Court on heterologous fertilization, delegate the Regions to issue the new guidelines, and therefore abdicating and circumventing an obligation that instead belongs to her, than in relation to the Ebola affair for which I do not think it has distinguished itself by timing. Now, as far as the pacemakers are concerned, we are faced with a conflict of interest as big as a house, because there is a director of the Ministry of Health called to control a senior official of the Higher Institute of Health, who, by chance, is the husband, so the controlled is the husband of whom he should control, this in spite of a European directive. Then there is a case of scandalous malasanity that has already caused a victim and an invalid. Here I renew to this Presidency and to all, although unfortunately many are absent, the timing of the motion of no confidence against Minister Lorenzin. [[Applause from Senator Bertorotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-328.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.43 p.m.
