ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-00892, on the exercise of the right to vote in European consultations by European citizens resident in Italy, presented by Senators Di Biagio and Romano, since the first, for reasons of organisation of the Parliament in joint session, needs to go to the Chamber. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senators Di Biagio and Romano drew the attention of the Government to the issue of the exercise of the right to vote by citizens of the European Union resident in Italy, on the occasion of the renewal of the European Parliament on 25 May. In order to facilitate the exercise of the right to vote for the above-mentioned elections by citizens of the Union residing in our country, the Ministry of the Interior has made it possible to raise awareness of the need to give the widest possible coverage of the modalities and terms for the registration of voters of the Union in the appropriate additional lists of each municipality. In particular, the persons concerned were able to make the application to the City of Residence by 24 February in order to exercise the right to vote for the Members of the European Parliament of Italy. Always in the direction of facilitating the exercise of the right to vote, all requests from opting citizens with a date not later than 24 February were considered timely, even if the date of arrival had been later than that date. Moreover, by the end of March 22, the lists of the new candidates should have been sent to the Ministry of the Interior together with the lists of those who were already on the list added by the European Parliament for having submitted a specific application in an Italian municipality on the occasion of European precedents. This deadline, in order to meet the numerous requests for extension, was postponed to 5 April. In this respect, I would remind you that, under the current rules, the lists of Union citizens have been communicated to the other Member States in order to avoid double voting by the citizens themselves in the State of residence and in the State of citizenship. Finally, I assure you that the Ministry of the Interior has ensured a constant activity of advice and support to the Municipalities, in order to protect the effective exercise of the right to vote of the citizens of the Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u7	DI BIAGIO (PI). Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary, for your evidence. Clearly, in relation to my request for a procedure to derogate from the rules, in order to allow European citizens resident in Italy to exercise their right to vote in the European consultations in May, the urgency I mentioned in the question has failed. This fact, on the one hand, must make us reflect on the need to review the timing of the parliamentary acts, so as not to weaken the legitimacy of the act of inspection union itself. On the other hand, the lack of urgency allows us to make a more detailed speech on this issue, including it in a perspective of consideration of the legislation on the active and passive electorate of citizens of the European Union resident in Italy - both for the European Parliament elections and for municipal elections - which has proved objectively inadequate to prove the facts. We know that the current legislation provides for the inclusion of citizens of the European Union on the additional electoral lists of municipalities and that such registration requires a prior application from the mayor of the City of Residence, by the citizen concerned. But the procedure for submitting this application and its numerous annexes makes it difficult for the Community citizen to exercise his or her rights fully, and the information campaigns put in place in view of the elections are worth nothing. Also because, as I pointed out in the question, the work of publicization comes to a practical act that is either absent or carried out superficially in many cases. In this case, for example, despite what was reiterated in the circular of the Ministry of the Interior 3/2014, many municipalities had not sent the letters with due translation, deliberately violating the ministerial indications. However, even where it was carefully conducted, advertising did not have the desired effects, so much so that the number of European citizens who applied for the added electoral lists was quite small. There are many small elements that show that the right to vote and to stand as a candidate is compromised, that the principle of non-discrimination by origin between citizens is damaged and that the right of free movement and residence, as enshrined in the Community Treaties, is violated. It must be made clear that this compromise is due to two factors: certainly from an excessive bureaucratization of procedures, which squeals deeply with the demands of simplification that are now emerging at all levels and squeaks also with the desire for simplification repeatedly declared by the Government, but above all, in my opinion, from the perspective in which the exercise of the right to vote for citizens of the European Union resident in Italy is articulated, that is, the perspective of the "vote on request" that has proved ineffective to the test of the facts and therefore detrimental to a subjective and objective right. This must also make us reflect on the inopportunity of mutualizing such mechanisms of vote on request, which are in effect ineffective, also in other areas; I am thinking, for example, of the choices made in these hours in the House on the question of the election of the Comites. Personally, I believe that this perspective is wrong and that the legislation must be amended to make effective the exercise of the right to vote of those who, coming from a country of the European Union, have decided to live in our country, for which, in essence, it would be appropriate to provide for the official registration on the additional electoral list of the Municipality, where there are no obstacles, limiting the obligation to submit the application only to citizens of the Union not yet registered in the register of the population resident in the municipality. That is why I have presented a bill, which I hope will be shared in Parliament, and I am already available to support the initiatives that it will be necessary in this area to undertake to facilitate a simplification which, if necessary at all levels to free our country from the links of the bureaucracy in which it is bogged down, which make its action ineffective, becomes even more necessary on such an important front as the exercise of the right to vote, which in this case also risks becoming a shadow on our reputation in Europe. I am glad that the government still shows attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u8	The following are questions 3-00080 and 3-00764 on the lack of staff at the Vicenza Court. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u9	Madam President, Senators, in response to Senator Zanettin's requests for the extension of the staff of the Vicenza tribunal, it should be noted that, before the judicial divisions were reviewed, the staff of the judges attached to the Vicenza tribunal was composed of the President of the tribunal, two Presidents of Chambers and 24 Judges, two of whom were employed as a labour judge. On the other hand, the staff of the Republic's local prosecutor was composed of a prosecutor and nine alternates. The Department of the Judicial Organization of the Ministry of Justice had actually formulated a proposal for the re-determination of organic plants, which provided for the increase of five magistrates for the tribunal of Vicenza and two magistrates for the corresponding prosecutor, but the then Minister of Justice, following interlocation with the Supreme Council of the judiciary, decided to defer the general review, limiting the re-determination of the staff to only offices directly interested in the reform of judicial districts. The organic background has therefore been modified with the table A annexed to the decree of the Minister of Justice of 18 April 2013, which re-established the organic plants of the magistrates of the judicial offices affected by territorial variations due to the reform of judicial geography, which entered into force on 13 September 2013. As the questioner is aware, the tribunal of Bassano del Grappa was merged at Vicenza, which had a president and eight judges, while the prosecutor of the Republic had a prosecutor and three alternates. The organic plan of the togati magistrates of the tribunal of Vicenza had therefore been recomposed, providing for a president of the court, two presidents of section and 33 judges, two of which with functions of judge of the job. By ministerial decree of 17 April 2014 the increase of a unit of section president was arranged, with a simultaneous reduction of a unit of judge. At present, therefore, the organic plan of the tribunal of Vicenza provides for a president of the tribunal, three presidents of Chambers and 32 judges, two of whom acting as labour judges. As of 11 July 2014, the post of President of the Court, a post of President of the Chamber and 13 posts of Judge togato were vacant. To this staff should be added 18 posts of honorary court judge, of which 15 are covered and three are vacant. As regards the proxy of the Republic of Vicenza, the provision for the re-determination of organic plants, adopted by the aforementioned ministerial decree 18 April 2013, has indicated in 14 magistrates the staff of the office, as resulting from the sum of the staff of the proxy of Vicenza and Bassano del Grappa. It should be noted, moreover, that the procedure activated by the Supreme Council of the judiciary in order to cover four vacant posts of judge togato at the tribunal of Vicenza - banned on 27 September 2013 - ended in February 2014 without the allocation of any of the places put into competition, having received a request for transfer by a single aspirant, without however the prescribed minimum legitimacy. For this reason, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in its plenary session of 17 April 2014, in deciding the list of 325 seats to be assigned to ordinary magistrates in internship, appointed by ministerial decree 2 May 2013, provided for the assignment to the tribunal of Vicenza of six judges and the proxy of Vicenza of two prosecutors who, after completing the period of internship provided for by law, will take up service by the end of this year. The Supreme Council of the judiciary has, moreover, again published, with resolution on 30 July 2014, six places of judge of the court of Vicenza (of which four for the civil sector and two for the criminal field); the deadline of submission of the applications of the aspirants is in expiration next 30 September. I would point out that the Ministry of Justice has initiated preliminary examination and study activities aimed at the general revision of organic plants in the judicial offices. It is ensured that the situation of the staff of the Vicenza judicial offices will be duly taken into account and, in the context of full and loyal institutional cooperation with the Supreme Council of the judiciary, appropriate interlocations will be activated where necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u12	ZANETTIN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I thank the Vice-Minister for his reply, but it shows once again that the Renzi Government's inability to tackle the problems of Venetian citizens with the necessary resolve and energy. The various ministerial inspections, which have followed for over a decade, have always shown that the tribunal of Vicenza has an organic table of judges absolutely inadequate both to the number of inhabitants served and to the economic dynamism of the territory, one of the most industrialized in Italy. As you mentioned, the ministerial director Dr. Birritteri, at the time, had proposed for the tribunal of Vicenza an increase of staff of five judges and two judges requisitioned. Not only has this adjustment not taken place, but the situation has deteriorated dramatically in the meantime. Following transfers, of the 36 theoretical judges planned in staff, only 21 remained in their place. Even, the president of the court, who had only served at the end of September 2013, at the end of the same year, after a few months, retired, leaving the seat vacant until today. Some competitions launched by the CSM have been deserted - as you acknowledged in your reply - because evidently no magistrate intends to come to work in Vicenza with absolutely unsustainable workloads and perennial organizational chaos. What did we propose to try to solve the situation? An increase in the organic tables, but the Government has said no; to insert Vicenza among the poor offices, to encourage new arrivals of magistrates, but also to this the Ministry has said no; that a new president of the court, perhaps young and with organizational interest, and not on the threshold of retirement, but we are still waiting for the CSM to appoint him. Of the six ordinary magistrates in internship on arrival, about which the Deputy Minister has spoken, it is said that two are already in maternity, and the acting president seems to be in the process of retiring. In the civil sector, in Vicenza today, we are not even able to guarantee urgent procedures. His response, which is very bureaucratic in content, shows that there is no real hope of improving the service given to citizens on the horizon. This Government and this President of the Council, who had so many hopes of change in the country, have evidently already lost, within a few months, that driving force and that energy so often evoked in words. More than the great reforms on justice, announced with media emphasis at the end of the meetings of the Council of Ministers, and by the way not yet published in the Official Journal, citizens also in Vicenza expect measures of common sense and inexpensive, such as those proposed by us; but obviously others are the priorities of your Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u13	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-310.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 September, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.18 p.m.
