ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination of all the amendments tabled in Article 1 continued. The Conference of Leaders is still under way, but it was agreed to resume the discussion of the measure with the explanation of the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u9	Perhaps, Madam President, we should wait until the end of the Conference of Leaders before we proceed with the examination of the draft laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Today we are talking about a subject that is really warming up the mood and is giving rise to a great debate and a great deal of discussion in this House and beyond. Unfortunately, however, we can see that there are doubts and concerns, including the order of business and the organisation of the work of this House, which we also express, about possible decisions that can be taken. Of course, we believe that issues such as this - and we have repeated it several times in our speeches - are so important and delicate that time must be given to all of us not only to express our ideas, but to confront ourselves in this House in order to find solutions, because solutions are probably needed. It is not possible that, in the face of a proposal such as the one put forward by the Government and which has fortunately been improved in the Commission, there are clashes and opinions on the subject so far that there are 8,000 amendments. This means that this type of proposal really needs to be carefully examined. As we in the North League have said several times, and as the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, has said, there is still much to be done. We therefore contest the remarks made by Mr Boschi from the outset, saying that the negotiations are now closed. The negotiations are not closed and, if there are any, it means that the work of this House is being totally frustrated. Let it be said then what the decisions are, or it is like saying " c'est à prendre ou à laisser." "You either take them or leave them." Here we want to propose further changes and better solutions to a reform that we consider to be totally incomplete. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] We continue to talk about reform, as if to say that, just because it is called that, it must necessarily be. But so it may not be. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] A reform is such when it is actually aimed at reforming the institution: here, on the other hand, there are beauties or, worse, reforms are made with intents that are not even so clear in the end, because they seem almost destabilizing, as has also been suggested by some speakers. It has been said that reforms of this kind can seriously undermine the nature and objective of the reform. We continue to support the need to take this step, remembering, however, that the true reforms that our country needs are probably not constitutional ones. Perhaps our people do not care if there are still and who are the senators or what is the composition of the Senate; what our fellow citizens really want to know are the reforms on work, on the family, on justice, that is, the true reforms that affect the nature and the fabric of our country. In my speech, I would like to explain, in particular, Amendment No 01.7 which probably has little to do with the debate that is taking place in this House at the moment. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, but the buzz is too loud and prevents Mr Stefani from making his speech without losing his voice. So, if possible, I ask you to lower your tones to allow Senator Stefani to speak in a normal tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam President, but in the end the important thing is that we hear our fellow citizens. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u12	Since, however, we want to confront each other, it is important that they also listen to the senators, or at least try.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u13	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you for teaching, Madam President. Amendment 01.7, which we have tabled, deals with the issue of the right of citizenship. We considered it appropriate to propose the inclusion of provisions within the Constitution, aimed at better defining the possible acquisition of citizenship. In Italy, it is often used to open a debate, hold a long debate and eventually forget about it. I remember, however, that a few months ago there was a broad debate about the ius soli, a type of intent manifested by Minister Kyenge, which we believe may have had even worse effects than those that are being achieved now, thanks to the fantastic, useful and excellent results of Mare nostrum project. The acquisition of the right of citizenship is a serious problem. In our view, special and in-depth assessments must be carried out in order to grant the right of citizenship. In fact, the ius soli is a characteristic of countries, perhaps different from ours like the United States of America, where for a certain period of time this wanted to be an attraction for immigration, since there was a need for the workforce. There is absolutely no such problem in Italy. Therefore, when considering the possibility of granting the right of citizenship on the basis of ius soli, account must be taken of the real needs of the territory. Basically we want to propose an amendment of the law of February 5, 1992, n. 91, to foresee a real virtuous path for the integration of regular foreigners in our country. We think of a path of real integration and assimilation in society, in its various and fundamental local realities, to live actively in our country. We believe that in order to request Italian citizenship the immigrant must pass an examination that demonstrates the real level of integration in our society; in this way, foreigners are invited to deepen the knowledge of our country, so that they can understand the ways, uses, laws, rights and duties that derive from the fact of belonging to our nation. We do not want to be - as unfortunately has been seen in recent months - a port, a landing, for these fleets loaded with desperate immigrants who use our peninsula as a footbridge to other realities and, sometimes, just as a probable destination. Here too, we believe that rather restrictive measures should be taken so as not to fuel this human disaster. This is one of the many proposals that we have made, as our Parent Company, Senator Centinario, also recalled. We have not tabled so many amendments. It's not even a hundred. These are substantive amendments that we hope can be accepted. We are here and insist on asking for a table of comparison. Minister Boschi said: "We are not afraid of confrontation." We too are not afraid of confrontation, and that is why we are willing to be here, to discuss, to discuss, to explain the amendments, to proceed with the votes, to make explanations of vote and to spend as much time as it takes to bring forward a valid text and a true reform. The Minister then said it was the last chance of credibility. We also say that perhaps these classrooms need a chance of credibility because we are not credible. If you try to carry out the reforms following ventilated hypotheses of achieving them in a couple of weeks you get to do absolutely nothing; or, you decide by an authoritarian act that sees us as mere receptors of other people's needs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Stefani. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We do not want to throw stones on the tracks that suggest a derailment. We do not want reform derailment. We want them to be done in a serious way. Let's just say to our fellow citizens that we do not do populism or demagogy: let's think about the really serious things. As the Minister said, in politics lies are no use. Maybe, we really shouldn't lie to our fellow citizens. We must not allow lies to cloud the needs of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u14	Madam President, a humble citizen like me is perhaps the last one to be able to remain open at the end of the Conference of the Leaders. I had three hallucinations last night, so Minister Boschi is happy. I had one last night at the meeting of the 10th and 13th Commissions when three times as many Senators of the Democratic Party Group who had signed amendments were forced to vote against the amendments for which they were signatories. First hallucination! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Three times after the government diktat and President Marinello. I had another hallucination when a large amendment was tabled at 10:07 p.m., which is practically a decree-law (the one relating to Ilva), and it is even required to amend it by 9:00 a.m. on the following day when it was tabled at 10:00 p.m. Second hallucination. The third one I had last night when I thought that my two children, who are four and two years old, will have to call "mother constituent" the minister Boschi. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]] You are also being hallucinated, Madam President. I know. Let's reverse the march together, if you have courage. But let's really do this. We have an advisory referendum on the issues of constitutional reform and then we and you together vote on what the citizens choose. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] We vote for what citizens choose! That's what scares you. Amendment 1.1968 proposes to recognize equal dignity to the two Chambers, at least from the point of view of representation, understood both as representation of interests and politics as amended in the fourth paragraph of Article 55 of the text presented by the Government reads that: The Senate of the Autonomies represents the territorial institutions. With Amendment No 1.1968, we propose that the following words be added to the fourth paragraph of the amended article: (i) in the context of national unity and indivisibility; (ii) in the context of national indivisibility; (iii) in the context of national unity; (iv) in the context of national indivisibility. Since I have been given ten minutes, I would add that the 5 Star Movement Group has tabled 200 amendments of over 7,000. Do not accuse us of presenting them for obstruction; entering into the substance of problems, all rejected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The addition we are asking for in the amendment is in logical and systemic coherence with the new Senate of the Autonomous Communities, which cannot be limited to representing a sectoral interest nor can it be considered political representation of territorial institutions alone. The Senate cannot represent only territorial institutions, as some of its faculties, such as having a say in constitutional laws, concern the entire nation. It is recalled that the new Article 67 no longer states that 'Every Member of Parliament represents the Nation', but merely establishes the absence of a mandate in the performance of the duties of each Member of Parliament. Article 55 amended expresses a clear and not negligible difference between the House and the Senate. It is stated that each member of the Chamber of Deputies represents the nation, while the Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions. It is not acceptable to present the interests of the nation as alternatives or uneven with those of the territorial institutions, the latter to be framed in the wider context of national unity and indivisibility. In other words, the members of the Senate cannot and should not feel faithful and representative only of their territories. In order to better understand the reasons, it is useful to quickly recapitulate some functions that would be the responsibility of the new Senate. According to amended Article 70, the Senate can examine the bills approved by the House and may propose changes to the texts, which must be examined within twenty days by the House. According to amended Article 71, the Senate of the Republic may also propose draft laws to the Chamber of Deputies, which is required to examine and rule within six months. According to Article 138 of the Constitution, the Senate of the Republic continues to maintain its functions intact in the event of a constitutional revision. The new Senate does not therefore have only legislative functions, but participates in the election of the President of the Republic (according to Article 83), on which it also intervenes in the case of the prosecution (according to Article 90); it also has the right to vote on the election of the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary (according to Article 104) and the exclusive appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Court (according to Article 135). This summary, in summary terms, suffices to understand that the Senate, as thought in the bill of the "mother constituent" Boschi, will not deal exclusively with issues related to the individual territories, but rather with matters of general interest. Hence the need to establish more precisely the representative function of the Senate, not by narrowing it to territorial institutions, but by framing it in a more general and more understanding perspective, which can only be that of national unity and indivisibility. It is thought that already in 1848 Article 41 of the Albertine Statute stipulated that "Members represent the nation in general, and not only the provinces in which they were elected. No mandatory mandate may be given to them by the electorate. If we do not want to be less evolved than the French three centuries ago, we need to clarify the representative nature of these new senators. I'll bring you back a local matter of the chronicle of my city, Vasto. A city councilman in my city appealed to me as a senator of the Republic to obtain funds to carry out a work of pollution of a part of the city. I replied to him, also in the press, that it is from this logic, proper to the old politics, that we must go out and free ourselves: a senator must not act only thinking about the good of his area of origin, perhaps then boasting about it in the next election campaign, in accordance with the sectoral and corporate interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In the above example, my role should not be to smuggle in order to have funds allocated in some way to my city or to any other, but rather to implement measures of a general nature, intended to provide funds to dispollute all the Italian cities that need them. In Article 55, as amended, it is also wrong from a systematic point of view to present the nation and the territorial institutions separately. Territorial institutions are part of the Republic (as required by Article 114 of the Constitution), which is one and indivisible (Article 5). It should be noted that the perimeter of representation of the Senate of the Republic, established by the new Article 55 and confined to territorial institutions, shows its lack of justification even if we consider the different bicameral models. It is not understandable why the new Senate of the Republic should be confined to a role of territorial representation, as is the case in the recommended model, for example in the German Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you too will agree on this: the logical and systemic inconsistencies we have talked about describe the new senator as a hybrid and contradictory figure, perhaps resulting from an institutional reform that has been given birth in an excessive hurry. On the one hand, the new senator is a mayor or regional councilor promoted senator on the field (I have to think, since there is immunity, that he is promoted for the bribes he takes) by colleagues and party leaders, and therefore he is linked to his territory, since only in his territory he has had a popular legitimacy (but, in fact, to be the mayor or regional councilor and to take care of a city and a region, certainly not to be the senator and take care of Italy all). On the other hand, the new senator has functions that politically affect the whole nation and not only the city or region in which he was elected as mayor or adviser, functions that do not find for this a democratic legitimacy on a national scale. Amendment 1.1968 is therefore consistent with the idea of the Upper House that has not only the 5 Star Movement, but also many of you who are not reflected in the authoritarian imposition desired by your party.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u15	I invite you to conclude, Senator Castaldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u16	BEEPS (PD). Let him talk, we've got time. CASTALDI (M5S). There are a lot of suspects and I don't want to hide them. It's mostly three. One might think that one of the fundamental aims of the new Senate is to distribute immunity to a hundred mayors and regional councillors, which is a very useful privilege, given the long list of judicial cases involving members of the parties, a list that I save you because I have now only twenty seconds to present the amendment. Some might think that the Senate of the Republic is a useful trick to throw out of the Senate of citizens who democratically, and according to your rules, have entered it. One might think that this new amendment is part of a semblance of bicameralism, since the current constitutional reforms attest to the superpower of the Chamber of Deputies, which in turn is dominated by a single party which is headed by only one man in power. Therefore we are against this unjust reform and to be radically revised, a reform to which we will fight not to slow down the change of Italy, as it says "Mento a terzi", but to avoid other citizens like us to witness a further degradation of their democratic space. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that today Mr Boschi was not with us who yesterday showed that he wanted to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u18	For information, Minister Boschi is taking part in the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u19	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). That was my assessment, Madam President. I am also referring to the lack of presence of the senators who are part of this government, which is perhaps due to the fact that these constitutional reforms are not so shared as you want us to believe so much it is true that of the six senators present yesterday, today I see only two. However, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,209 and I would like to start with what Mr Tonini said (I do not know if he was referring to a comment) and he said that the Government is certainly entitled to present a constitutional bill. But I would like to point out that the mistake is right there. How many draft legislation of parliamentary initiative, in fact, remain firm during a parliamentary term? How many draft laws have we tabled so far, some of which affect the Constitution? I, for example, presented one for the abolition of military courts. These will never be discussed and, as some colleagues who have more experience than I have told me, there are a thousand ways to make them macerate and make them forget. But precisely because it is a constitutional bill, then we must submit to the times that the government establishes. All discussions, the debates we are having these days could have been avoided. In fact, Mr Boschi's words speak of broad sharing, because you have listened to everyone. We are all good at listening: if during a debate, a discussion, one stops to listen is easy; but he should also understand what the other side says. Today I read the statements of the President-in-Office of the Council: "I think someone has not understood that I have hard skin. I go on like a mule. Since the President of the Council is not from my city - he being a Florentine and I from Trieste - I thought maybe he had said it in a joke, to say that he is a boy, he feels even younger than his 39 years. I don't know if there are any ethologists here, who may enlighten me about the behaviour of the mules, but it seems to me that the mules are not among those reasonable animals and that they immediately transpose the orders. The President-in-Office of the Council, therefore, wants to continue to play a diktat, imposing on this House how and, above all, when to do this constitutional reform. Of course, there are stakes in this debate; and who sets the stakes? The government puts them in. We can talk about weights and counterweights - and I might go further - but the stake, which seems to me not to reach two thirds of this House, is precisely the electivity. From this point of view a leaf does not move. Today there is an editorial by Massimo Franco, a well-known subversive, entitled "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera): Democracy is not at risk. At some point, he writes: The uncontrolled expenses and inquisitions that some local authorities give to Italy say that the inadequacy of the political class begins from there. That's exactly what I said in my speech. There is no day that in the pages of the daily newspaper of my city (my fellow Russian citizen can confirm this) there are no editorials on how all the inquisitions of my region have improperly spent the money of parliamentary groups: dinners, ice creams, aperitifs. And we reward them and make them senators too! [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group]] Colleagues, allow me also a reflection (you have had the misfortune that I have read today the "Corriere"). It was taken up by the powerful telephoto lenses - which are not there today - also about what Senator Casini wrote to Minister Boschi, inviting him to make a twist: a constitutional pact. Perfect, but what constitutional pact is better than understanding that we cannot continue in a debate that talks about constitutional revisions with a wall against a wall? Someone has to give in. I can understand some things that the government or a political side tells me, but on the other side too there must be a willingness to accept something. It seems to me that the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, has observed this over and over again. I would like to stress what Mr Calderoli said, which I too took up in my speech: let us put in the Constitution what we have not managed to put in the parliamentary regulations. In fact, we will spend from today until the next few weeks talking about a constitutional bill, but we do not want to amend the parliamentary regulations. How can we not put the problems of the country to the attention of this House? It has rightly been observed over and over again what the problems of this country are. Just yesterday, on my way out of this Chamber, a lady stopped me and told me: Do something for young people. What was I supposed to tell you? No, the President-in-Office of the Council and all citizens are calling for constitutional reform. Of all the people I meet, no one tells me that we have to deal with the issue of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I don't get this impediment. I say and repeat that it is okay to deal with this issue, but not in these times and in these ways. Absolute poverty could be one of the issues to be addressed. According to data, today one in ten Italians is in absolute poverty. We are 60 million and, therefore, we are talking about 6 million Italians to whom we are thinking of giving an answer by making the government work faster, as the President-in-Office of the Council wishes. Or we can talk about the data of Banca d'Italia a few days ago, so there would be a recovery - let's call it - of 0.2 percent in 2014 and 1.3 in 2015. Some economists will explain to me why the value of the recovery is always higher for the second year, while in the current year there is always stagnation. During the last ten years the recovery is always expected for the following year, but in the present we are firm. Another problem that I would like this House to deal with which I particularly care, even if I do not go around with the yellow lady as my colleagues do, is that of the maroons. I have impressed - it is not a hallucination, dear Government - what the wives of our Maròs said during an audition and the inability and impotence that we had, as a political class, because we could not respond. I would like to understand why we are not discussing relations with India in this House; a country that holds two of our fellow countrymen in deception, because the ship where they served has been re-entered with deception. But we, as Italy, continue to have beautiful relations with India, because perhaps we consider the fact that the population is 1.3 billion and therefore we have to do business with them. President Finocchiaro observed what Professor Onida said, who said something very simple: reforms are not done to save money. In this amendment as in others - it has been observed from several quarters - there is talk of a reduction in the number of senators, but also of the number of MPs, which is a government stake. I do what my colleague, Mr Palermo, said that we had to decide first what the new Senate should do and then who should be part of it. On Title V of Part II of the Constitution, concerning the competences of the Regions and their autonomy, allow me to make another quote. I quote another person, who may have had a hallucination, who talked about what the President of the ARS, the Regional Assembly of the Sicilian Autonomous Region of Palazzo dei Normanni, earned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u20	Senator, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u21	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). 650,000 euros a year, and we cannot say anything about that salary, but we continue to reform the Constitution only for the parts that the Government tells us. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u22	Madam President, I rise to explain amendment 01.6. I have to believe because this morning I made a joke about the undersecretary Pizzetti, to say it with a Shakespearean character, Pizzetti is a man of honor and tells the truth, so much so that in his passage, when he said: "We are preparing to reject the attack", the government decided to deploy the Minister of Defence [[Applause from Senators Bottici, Bulgarelli and Bignami]] So there's some concern. When Mr Battista started speaking, I heard Mr Sposetti say out loud: "Let's talk, we have time." Let us hope that this is the case, Mr Sposetti: at a time when this is not the case, we would not deny my history, but his, which should have democratic roots. Concerns should be bilateral when you imagine that you do not let Parliament speak. I return to the amendment. It is beautiful: it seems not only contemporary, but absolutely perspective. It is the right and duty of every citizen to exercise individual or collective resistance to acts of public authorities that violate fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by this Constitution. It is not new, it is a phrase that should be brought back to the base of each Constitution. The problem is that, when there is or is thought to be a need to include an element like this in the Constitution, it means that there is some concern. I think that there was, regardless of the mischievous intervention that is being made on this Constitution, but that even more so, with what is being done, this form of demand, which is then nothing more than the self-defense of citizens towards those structures of the powers of the state, even peripheral, that they are vexing, of being able to resist. Today, however, the idea that I am making of this debate is that we are playing a really bad game, which unfortunately is not supported by the media, because, as my colleague said just now, the word "reform" is enough to make everything beautiful. It must be said that this is not a reform, because the reforms are those of work or the cost of living. [[Applause from Senators Eat and Hammers.]] This is the Constitution. And since those of my generation have had lessons on the Constitution for years, especially from some political parts, we ask ourselves the question if everything has not changed, that is, if their consciences have scattered in who knows what marasms, in the expectations of a seat elsewhere that will never be, because the seats in the House, dear colleagues, will not be enough for all of you exodus from the Senate, so make it a reason. Having said that, the demand for freedom, which is the true freedom of the citizen who has perhaps voted for us indirectly, but certainly not in the indirect way that you propose, is a freedom that lies within us. When the other day the Minister wanted to quote his personal sensitivity remembering Fanfani, I dare say that my father was also a fanfanian and I don't know why, perhaps by par condice, I was never, even though I was enrolled in that party, fanfanian. It can be seen that family relationships impose reasoning. However, there is also a political passage: it does not seem to me that the overlapping of the figure of Fanfani with that of Renzi makes, and in any case, for those who have the same history or for those who remember the Italian political history, I would like to remind you that the problems of Fanfani began when the desire to do two things at once was superimposed, namely the secretary of the party and the President of the Council. This is not to wish Renzi who knows what end, but undoubtedly a reflection on democracy comes from these memories. Memories, therefore, can never be partial, when we talk about the history of politics, because politics, the real one, maybe was that and I believe that the comparisons between Renzi and Fanfani are extremely offensive to Fanfani and certainly not to Renzi. [[Applause from the Divine Senators and Bignami.]] On the other hand, the scantness of this Government, Madam President, is seen in the wretchedness with which it wanted to face the reform of the Constitution, that book that was signed by our constituent Fathers at Palazzo Giustiniani and that here is treated as the reform of the rules of the condominium. The sloppyness will perhaps emerge also in the matter of conflicts of interest, of which this Government is also experienced, having a long list, when someone with reasoning ability will question, for example, the competences that regional advisers can have that become senators, because I think that conflicts of interest will be there. [[Brusio.]] I would ask a colleague not to scream, although his reasoning is interesting. I'll tell you what I imagine will happen when the regional elections take place. He will win a coalition and the other one will lose, one Region will have five senators, of which one will go to the opposition and the other three or four will be brought into play, exactly as is done today for a council member or for a presidency of the Regional Council. Probably the most useless and incompetent could be referred to as a senator. This is the Senate that you propose, whose quality I think depends not only on how you imagine it, but on the reality of life that is quite different, unless you live in a parallel world. For intellectual honesty, I would like to ask you the following question: if you know what you are doing, why do you do it? But even more so, I would like to quote the phrase of an important member of yours, of which I do not mention the name out of respect, which he said in a Parliamentary Chamber - I believe it was that of the House - as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, let them come down from the tree. Of the two: either you do not know what is happening or there is a problem of understanding compared to what we are doing. I said earlier, Mr President, how beautiful that amendment is, which recalls that, in theory, not only politics but the structures of a state, up to the peripheral level, are at the service of the citizens. But that amendment also says that, when a citizen or a group of citizens gets angry, he can say no: he can say no to the municipality, to the state; he can say no to the INPS, to Equitalia. Mr President, if we are not careful, the citizens will say no again this time. Then, when they say no, if we believe that this idea of freedom is right, we must be careful, because the arrogance of the new caste is answered with the square and, when the square becomes square, democracy becomes a problem. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] When you want to exercise democratic action by talking about things like the Constitution, I don't think you can imagine getting rid of it in the secret closets of some place like the Nazarene or anything else, maybe in exchange for an electoral law and - imagined in the wrong way - maybe even by a party that used to be 30% and now 15%. I think someone's gonna have to come to terms with this. Madam President, we have tabled 100 amendments. I've known her a long time. We worked together. You also know very well that 100 amendments on the Constitution are not many. We have formalized proposals and requests. We are still waiting for political answers. This morning, President Sacconi made a statement that I thought was clever, even if we don't always get along, on the contrary, I must say that we often disagree with the New Right Centre. President Sacconi said that the solutions to this problem, namely this stalemate - because this is a stalemate - are political mediation, the return of politics to the field. I personally have not seen this policy and I am concerned because, as I am a wreck of the first Republic, at least I have heard of politics, directly or indirectly, with parallel forms, but in any case with answers. When a government is unable to give clear answers by putting its face on it, I think it's a loser. I am running out of time and, therefore, I shall end the speech with a sentence which I allow myself to leave to the House. It may be that tomorrow, like many of us, I will no longer be in a parliamentary Chamber, but I wonder how much will be worth those with this new Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to Amendment No 1,1967, which was first signed by Senator Endrizzi and which I would like to illustrate. "The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions": this is what the Government proposes in the text. With this proposal from the Government, the new Chamber will no longer represent the citizens. A few days ago, during the general discussion, Senator Turano of the Democratic Party explained to the House - I quote his words - the following: In the United States the non-elective Senate, which someone thought to choose for Italy, was rejected over a century ago, exactly in 1913 with the approval of the 17th amendment to Article 1 of the American Constitution. Since then, senators have been directly elected by citizens, and not already chosen, as was the case before, by the legislative assemblies of individual states. Because that is how it works in a democratic state: it is the citizens who choose, and it is good that this concept is finally understood by everyone. These are the words spoken here by a majority senator, Senator Turano. Unless the government here wants to put its hand in Article 1 of our Constitutional Charter. The concept has indeed been explained there, in Article 1, by the constituent Fathers, in which it is said that sovereignty belongs to the people; a concept that leaves no room for interpretations, and which establishes clearly, exhaustively and without any misunderstanding, that to be sovereign is the people and not the institutions. Furthermore, why should what works well in the United States and in other countries not work as well in Italy? Maybe the government will explain this to us. These days I am witnessing a debate carried out by senators and government who stand at the same height as the constituent Fathers; parliamentarians who are about to change what great men had thought for the Italian people. The Italians, a people who struggled, after the war, thanks to figures of very high political and social importance, stood up and made key points such as democracy and the protection of human rights, civil and political, their own watchwords. The principles enshrined in the Italian Constitution were taken up much later by the European Social Charter, fourteen years later. For what reasons, then, does this Government want to maintain a non-elective House? Who will represent this House? And by wanting to maintain, in what form, what representative function are you asked to perform? The debate in this House is about a model of the Senate as a representative body of the territorial institutions: not the Senate the Republic but the Senate of the institutions, according to the new, unpublished name. Unpublished because it is maintained for these so-called - let's call them so-called - new senators the ban on the bond of mandate, but the representation of the nation is eliminated. So it is to be asked: unleashed in view of what? For what will the new senators be elected, and especially with a non-elective Senate who will be the new senators? What new and different political substance would this body express? None, if not possibly dissimilar majorities from those political ones formed in the House of Deputies. Political staff of parties would operate here and there and the new Senate would work in a discontinuous way with large - and I stress - expenditure of public resources, and in an ineffective and efficient way. I would remind all of us, Senators, that the last recommendation of the European Council on the 2014 National Reform Programme for Italy, says that Italy must implement a budget adjustment favourable to growth, based on significant savings resulting from a lasting improvement - I repeat, improvement - of the efficiency and quality of public expenditure at all levels of government. Now, I ask you what is the lasting improvement in the effectiveness and quality of expenditure in this reform. The senators that preceded me have already extensively demonstrated and illustrated that they will save about 50-80 million compared to a very low quality in terms of result. Europe, therefore, does not ask us what this House is about to vote on. Europe in the same recommendation calls for anti-corruption measures; it calls for full social protection for the unemployed, who are now said to be 13%. Let us not forget, in addition to the unemployed, the three million unemployed in Italy and therefore, if we look closely, the percentage of those who do not have jobs is really much higher than 13%. Europe is also asking us to extend the social assistance scheme and to use resources to promote growth, research and development expenditure, innovation, education and essential infrastructure projects. So Europe does not ask us what we are discussing at this time in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, with this reform you are not trying to improve the state-citizen relationship, therefore the relationship between elected and elected, but you are doing everything to maintain and improve your positions in the electoral market, increasing the gap between institutions and the people. People who, I remind everyone again, are sovereign and this is enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. On this line of thought, the composition of the new Senate is incompatible with the idea of members drawn from regional and local administrations or elected to second degree by the bodies of these, whose term of office coincides with that of the regional and local administrations of origin. Many constitutionalists have expressed themselves in this sense, in clear discrepancies with the concept of the Senate as a container of regional and local administrations. I would remind all the senators present in this House of the immense difficulty that the Regions have recently had in creating something very small compared to the immensity that is now being asked, namely the creation of a unitary system for the delivery of interventions for the Youth Guarantee. So we think that local administrators can be able to manage the national machinery and work in the ascending and descending phase of the formation of laws with the European Union, which is one of the most important things that can be done within Parliament? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude senator, Catalfo. So what we are asking is that all the men and women present in this House give voice to the sovereign people, give voice to Articles 1 and 3 of the Italian Constitution, who consider and read the amendment proposal of the 5 Star Movement, which replaces the words "territorial institutions" with the word "Autonomies" and who evaluate the immense importance that our proposal for a consultative referendum has on the electivity of the Senate and the simultaneous reduction of MPs and senators. That would indeed be a consistent, consistent and clear reduction in expenditure. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u24	Madam President, I would like to speak first on the order of business, and then I will begin my speech if you answer my question. I'm a new senator, it's the first time, and it never happened to me to intervene while the Conference of Leaders was in progress. I would like to ask whether, under the Rules of Procedure, this is possible and, if possible, why all the other times the sitting of this House has been suspended and what this special day has today that it cannot suspend the sitting. So I wonder if my speech is so negligible and so is that of all my fellow Members, whether there are any reasons and why you, Mr President, do not interrupt the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u25	Senator Bignami, I would like to give you an immediate explanation, while stressing that the Conference of the Leaders has agreed that the sitting of the Assembly should continue, because there are no votes, so there are precedents in this regard, because, in the state, the timetable is not changed and it is expected that we will continue in the debate. So there is no change in the timetable, nor is there expected to be any change at this time. We can therefore continue our work, while the Leaders continue to discuss any future changes that are not currently foreseen. So you, Senator Bignami, have the faculty and the possibility, if you think, to carry out your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u26	Thank you, President. I would like to explain the amendments 1,717 and 1,304. This intervention of mine does not want to be of obstruction, but of construction. If there is something that here, instead, is of destruction, it is precisely your chasm and murky constitutional reform, which can only be thought of by four boys of political science after a soccer match and a beer, indeed, even two. We are not changing a law, even though that is often a crucial and fundamental operation for us citizens. We are, indeed, you are changing the Constitution. We know very well that equality and freedom are, to their extent, the main indicators of a society's degree of democracy. We know - but perhaps you do not know this - that the fundamental characteristic of the democratic form is universal suffrage, which guarantees the expression of that equality and freedom which I have just mentioned. Primary and fundamental in the will of the constituent Fathers is the will of the people, which is expressed precisely by universal suffrage. Well, dear Senators with your suitcases, you should know that the greater the suffrage, the more free and equal men are. Where is this suffrage going? Demolished, together with the cancellation of one of the two chambers thought by our constituent Fathers, which will be reduced to a political-cultural circle of mayors and advisers, to be armored with parliamentary immunity. Why, then, parliamentary or non-parliamentary immunity? Mah. The people are sovereign. With this reform, however, we are not doing the will of the people, but of a small sovereign, elected outside these classrooms, but also outside the institutions. I think of a mother, a bad educator who, in the face of the whims of a spoiled child, cannot say no. We are faced with the whims of a head of government, elected by a party and legitimized by many colleagues, paradoxically by the European elections which, he said, would not have been relevant from the point of view of national politics. But what legitimacy is that? A child who speaks without knowing what he says: "A reform per month." Well, we've been here five months, and he hasn't done one! The facts are the ones that matter and this, my dear Minister, is not a hallucination, yes, because I am hallucinating and I see the Minister! This is the bitter description of reality. Dear Minister, be serene, Renzi does not lie: he knows Letta very well. Perhaps Fanfani could not have known, but I am sure that, in the face of such a reform of the Senate, he would have been deeply displeased; Formica instead, and unfortunately, he said something else: he said that politics is blood and shit. I see very little blood, but perhaps that definition of pulp is much more appropriate to the political moment and to your action, dear Minister, which yesterday was very heated, giving us hallucinations. I find it shocking that a Minister of the Republic uses this term: I advise you to use the phrase "a distorted vision of reality" which, on the one hand, expresses the same concept, but on the other hand does not offend the people you are facing. Respect for people comes even before any political confrontation: I cannot remain silent in the face of the ruin of the Senate and its functions within the institutions. I can't shut up to see the complete removal of those balances that our constituent Fathers have taken months to establish. And what does Renzi think? You can't reason with him, he's already spoken, he's already imposed. You know what the problem is? That is precisely the problem: a completely wrong concept that many people in this room have of democracy. I don't care what he thinks; I have to work for who elected me, not for the king elected by the party, much less for the place. But there is no leaf moving here that Renzi doesn't want; that's the problem. You are afraid, you exercise the art of the bithought of Orwellian memory: the ability to accept in your mind, simultaneously, two conflicting opinions. [[Applause from Senator Giarrusso.]] In your heart you know that the proposed reform certainly needs popular electiveity, but, for fear of misalignment to the boy's party, you support its non-necessity. Fear of exercising autonomy from the bond of mandate: but if this theme was not even in your programs! And then you want to sell us that future senators will be free? You can't be here right now. How could I be representative of a territory if I was voted by a party? How can you be credible when you say that? Let us return to the Commission and deal with the problems of the country: labour policies, corruption, tax evasion, school, health care. No more ad personam and ad castam laws. This is just a reform to distract the masses. If we do this reform, will the government be more credible? No. This will not increase jobs; it will only increase the work of a small group of elected people, who should already have so much where the burden and honour of the real election have been won. What is the public debt, my Minister? A hallucination? Tell us, Minister, it's a hallucination and I'll be the happiest woman in the world. But if we all wake up a little bit and realize that that's our main problem, it would be better. In the competition decree no real simplification has been made, but simply a pure entropy increase, an increase in chaos, a lightening of the rules rather than a real optimization, a continuous putting under the carpet the dusts, making the opportunity to the smarter attractive. Solve problems? Then let's change the target. Enough with this lark mirror! Simple: fight against tax evasion, corruption, return of capital from abroad, disincentive to relocation. And we go to meet people who work honestly and respect institutions. We're a social state, let's remember. The roles of senator, regional councilor or mayor are currently in conflict. How is it possible that tomorrow there will be no more incompatibility? Still with the Renzian bipensiero? You are not changing the rules; you are violating rational principles and, to do so, you are changing the rules of authority, allowing what was previously forbidden to do. This is a style which I think I have already noticed in recent decades, my dear apprentice President. I wonder, do you really think it's the Senate that doesn't work? No, my colleagues; it is the senators, it is the ruler, it is the one who legislates this state that does not work. That's why the slogan of the election campaign returns; that's why we should all go home and put on these cracks and to the Government people who care about the real future of Italy, not their personal interests, not their little toys to break. And if you can't say no for the good of the country, at home. If you put the chair and that of your friends before the good of the country, at home. If you don't want to argue, talk, fight back and you don't want to question it at home. If you can't think from state to home. Only an election by universal suffrage can guarantee you autonomy of judgment and discrimination. And it is not, however, a sufficient condition, but it is certainly a necessary condition. With Amendment 1,717 we want to maintain bicameralism, but we want to reduce the number of members of the two Chambers considerably, hoping for the savings on the allowances that the reform wanted, which are very little relevant to the real problems. No more nominations. We do not want a political class to elect itself. Let us give the right things the right time, especially for reforms as important and delicate as this. When the finger points to the moon, the fool looks at the finger. You're not looking at the finger, but you're erasing the moon, which belongs to everyone. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to point out that I am very surprised at the words of President Napolitano, confirming the climate and the conditioning of citizens and of Parliament. I will not make any comments, even in order not to run into the dangers of an anachronistic crime, which I have proposed to delete with a bill that, however, lies mysteriously in some silent drawer of these offices. So, I'll proceed with my intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Amendment No 1.1966, which can only appear to be of an exquisitely formal nature. Indeed, the replacement of the expression "territorial institutions" with the much larger territorial communities within the Nation is an indicative modification of how the 5 Star Movement intends to promote a different model of the criteria for identifying the functions of the Chambers and, in particular, of the Senate, as resigned by the amendment under consideration in relation to Article 55 of the Constitution. In fact, the reference to the territorial communities represents an emblematic reference to the concept of democracy and popular government which, well-presented in the spirit of the constituent Fathers, is today raped by an authoritarian and discrittled reform project such as the one proposed by this now declared majority of government "Renzi-Berlusconi". In a cultural context, even before political, of complete abandonment of any respect for the true will of the citizens there is a Democratic Party that, in order to comply with the ambitions of its President of the Council, today adheres to authoritarian models of architecture of the institutions that, until recently, were resoundingly criticized and brought to fundamental reason of the distinction between right and left in this country. It is not difficult to remember the epithets and the accusations of the poor - of course in quotes - former colleague Berlusconi, who was considered a new dictator for proposing reforms similar to those that the supposed democrats of yesterday are ready today, in a sort of ethical and intellectual genuflesion, to vote here, in the Senate. Right and left are concepts that are now overcome by an agreement - that between Renzi and Berlusconi - which, in the name of an unhidden absolute ideal and political aridity, intends to mortgage the future of the institutions of this country and take away from citizens the most elementary instruments of formation of the popular will and control over the power of legislation. The methods, however, are those that the history of humanity has sadly told the beginnings of any period of weakening the democratic structure of a country. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in the deafening and succinct silence of the Presidency, Dr Boschi has allowed herself to offend those who do not share the reform that has been dictated to her by some master, even silently dissenting with the term of hallucinations. This is the respect for those who do not conform to the will of the evil pact, matured outside the parliamentary classrooms, between the masters of the old politics, that is Berlusconi and De Benedetti... Excuse Renzi, I meant. In short, a kind of new and shared Mondadori praise, a pact between those who govern the institutions, the economy and the mass media has filled the benches of the government with puppets and youngsters without a real idea of the future of this country. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u28	Colleagues, I would like to ask you a little respect for the colleague who is making his speech and, therefore, to clear the hemicycle and lower the volume of conversations. I ask, in particular, Senators Berger and Scilipoti to turn away and lower the tone of their voices. Please, Senator Ciampollo, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u29	Thank you, although I do not think the background noise has decreased. Then we cannot fail to repeat the inconvenience of having to stress once again the fiction and deception of the citizens of this group of representatives of the old policy. It is not important that they are young or old, it is not important that they are beautiful or not beautiful in appearance; what matters is that their methods are out of time because they are those typical dictatorial models that, although in renewed forms, reproduce periodically in history. And then, while the wreck of Sorgenia does not prevent De Benedetti from dictating the political line to the President of the Council through dear Delrio and, again, the absolution in a process not yet defined seems to give back the honour to a former President of the Council fallen for an infamous condemnation for a multimillion-dollar tax evasion, this definitive yes, in such a context the country sees irremediably increase its poverty bands and despair and the young lose hope. Boschi, however, finds time to talk about hallucinations, thus offending the entire Senate even before the dissent of those who denounce the uselessness and danger of this institutional reform project. However, ladies and gentlemen, good news can be recorded, namely the definitive consecration of overcoming the old policy with its fake distinctions between the right and the left. Today on the one hand there are Renzi and Berlusconi and on the other the 5 Star Movement and the Italian people. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u30	Excuse me, Senator Ciampollo. I think it's really impossible to go on. Colleagues, if you must speak, please leave the Chamber. I turn to my colleagues on the right, on the left and on the centre. It is impossible to intervene under these conditions! SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). We're upset about the news. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There's a bit of a disturbance, and I understand from the news that's coming. But you have to contain it. Please continue, Senator Ciampollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u31	As I said, today on one side there are Renzi and Berlusconi and on the other the 5 Star Movement and the Italian people. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian people, the people whom this reform intends to transform into a mere spectator of dark Palace agreements between politicians, financiers and workers who are able to make a mess of the institutions in order to consolidate and increase their bizarre power understood not as an instrument of development of the community of the country, but as a simple moment of satisfaction of personal interests, selfishness and narcissism. The 5 Star Movement Group will prevent the realization of this project dangerous for the future of the country. Amendment 1,19666 is a small signal in the context of a larger and more significant protest that the 5 Star Movement Group will carry forward with the courage and integrity that have allowed it to become the only real force of opposition in this country. It is the only real hope for a better future for its citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u32	I think you've finished your speech under difficult conditions. Since there seems to me to be some excitement about the news coming from the Conference of Leaders, I think it is appropriate to suspend for at least ten minutes, hoping that at 5.30 p.m. President Grasso will be able to come to this House and communicate the outcome because I do not think it is possible, nor respectful, for colleagues to continue the debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] , FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut). (The sitting was suspended at 5.19 p.m. and resumed at 537 p.m.) (17.37 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u33	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders confirmed the timetable for the current week, except for the closing time of tomorrow's afternoon sitting, which, as announced yesterday, will end at 18.45 in order to allow Parliament's meeting in a joint sitting, convened at 7 p.m. With regard to the work of the next few weeks, until Friday 8 August, the Conference of the Leaders by majority redefined the articulation and schedule of the calendar and confirmed the topics already planned, namely the follow-up of the Constitutional Reform Act and the decree-laws in expiration. Therefore, next week's work will resume on Monday 28 July with the examination of the decree-law on culture and tourism. Apart from the opening time of this sitting, confirmed at 11 a.m., all sessions will begin at 9.30 a.m. and will end at 24 a.m., Monday to Sunday, with a single daily suspension from 13.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. to allow the work of the Commissions. [[Happy comments. Laughter. Ironic applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups. Senator Bignami points out that she wants to intervene]] Quiet. I see the proposal has been successful. [[Lively comments from Senators Malan and Scilipoti.]] As regards the decree-laws at second reading, the Presidency is empowered to include them on the agenda and to set the deadline for tabling amendments, taking into account the timing of transmission from the House of Deputies. In relation to the progress of the work, the debate in the Assembly may take place even if the examination by the relevant Commissions is not completed. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now I... up to a certain point, I'm not gonna let it go, okay? Let me finish reading, then everyone can take the floor, and you know it. This comes out of what most of the Leaders have decided. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I note that the Presidency has received requests for secret ballots on amendments tabled to Articles 1 and 2 according to the distribution prospectus. As you have already informed the Conference of Leaders, which you have agreed, further requests for secret ballots will have to be received by 8 p.m. this evening in order to allow the Presidency to assess the proposals overall.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As far as we are concerned, we have no problems with the working hours of this House. Having said that, dear President, since yesterday - but since last week - we have been discussing the request made in this House to have an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what is happening in Gaza and on other situations of international tension. We have learned, because you have kindly informed us, that, despite the fact that the House would vote today by rejecting our request, this information will be held in the House on 1 August. President, since the Senate is still there and we have a lot of senators interested in this issue, starting with the Senators of the Foreign Affairs Committee (but not only), we believe that it is absolutely necessary that this House too should be able to discuss it after the Minister of Foreign Affairs informs us. That is why we intend to make a proposal for a different timetable from yours so that there can be a discussion on the Minister's information on Thursday 31 July. I therefore call for this timetable to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u39	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I was asking myself a question. The Constitution provides for respect for the minority and, as far as the expressions of worship are concerned, I believe that the right of Catholics to go to church on Sunday morning is harmed. [[Applause from Senator Bruni's M5S and LN-Aute groups]] I ask at least Sunday morning and Saturday for the Jews. For Muslims there is Friday. I wanted to make this proposal because what he announced seems to me to be detrimental to our rights. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u42	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you know what proposals I made at the Conference of Leaders and I must confess that I find the proposal that was adopted by a reasonably unreasonable majority. In fact, we are discussing a draft constitutional revision downstream of a work, as I said this morning, done very well in the Commission, where from an initial text of the government, the famous basic text, we have arrived at a text presented in the House very strongly modified and the result of the work of comparison not only between the majority groups and those who, like our party, support this reform project, but with the opposition groups that are obstructing in this House today. I understand that there are moments in parliamentary and political life where confrontation must harden, I understand that the majority wants to assert the rights of the majority, I understand that the opposition forces must maintain their position and formulate all the possibilities that the Rules of Procedure allow. But if, in the face of an important constitutional revision project, we are reduced to forcing ourselves to work every day, from 28 July onwards, presumably until 8 August, from 9 a.m. to 24 p.m., there is something that has not worked in our debate. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Go tell the miners! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Make him talk, you miserable! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u43	Senator Esposito, no one gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u44	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I gave it to myself, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Romani. [[Comments by Senator Scilipoti.]] ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Sclipoti, please. At the Conference of Leaders, I tried, Mr President, to make proposals, to identify issues, topics on which the Senate was called upon to discuss in depth, to isolate the points of opposition, and there are, but there are not many. There are major issues such as direct election, but also secondary, but less important, issues such as the reference to the referendum instrument. There are audiences for the election of the President of the Republic other than those contained in the basic text. There are so many arguments, some of which President Finocchiaro said in his report - four to be exact - and I would have liked this to be the method that this House could use, given that the Senate is invested in the first reading exactly for the reform of itself. On the other hand, we find ourselves in a hard, sterile, useless confrontation between the majority and the opposition, with 8,000 amendments, we have also counted the minutes, you, Mr President, did it first at the Conference of the Leaders to determine how much time we would have used without discussion and illustration of the amendments themselves. It was a waste of time, unnecessary votes, unnecessary arguments and non-existent insights. I am still appealing to this House. I cannot ask my group to vote on the timetable as proposed; I do not feel it because I find it unreasonable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] The proposal I make is to continue the debate exactly in the terms in which they were established by the previous Conferences of the Leaders, with the times and times that we had given ourselves. I hope, I say this now and I will repeat it later, that in the meantime reasonableness will take over. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Crosio.]] Senator De Petris, you did not have, as you said today, precise answers from the Government, but you worked with us in the Commission, you made a strong, active and positive contribution to the determination of that text that came out of the Commission. And I turn to the senators of the Five Star Movement. They also contributed. Some amendments have been accepted. So, there was... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I said that some of the amendments were accepted. Inquire. Mr Capelletti (M5S). No! No! MORRA (M5S). But which ones? SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). All right, no amendments have been accepted: when obstruction is to be done, it must be done until the last letter of the alphabet. It's okay. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Today we are voting on the timetable. We've got a few days ahead. There are five decrees that the government will have to propose in this House. We have time. The request that I make to this House, to all the senators, is to determine a path with a comparison that probably does not go only through the platform of the Capigroup, which is a technical tool, and cannot be political. I hope that we give ourselves the opportunity to demonstrate to the country that we want to make a constitutional revision law of which the country can understand the meaning. We have a text on which we can work. As far as I am concerned, I think it is a reasonably distant text - as I said earlier - from the initial text. For us, therefore, it is a largely positive text, but it can be absolutely perfectible. Let us give ourselves the opportunity to play our role to the full. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u47	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party Group will support the timetable approved by a majority by the Conference of Leaders. Let me tell you right away that I believe that Italians understand why, in this delicate phase, we must increase the hours of our work. I also say to you that this decision, for which I voted at the Conference of the Leaders, was difficult, because I know what sacrifice is required of my fellow Senators. But it is a decision that has followed a repeated invitation from me - I must say a lot, but very much heard - to all the group leaders to reason on a possible reduction in the number of amendments tabled. Today is the 10th session devoted to constitutional reform by the House. It's the tenth session. We have not yet finished explaining the amendments to the first article of the reform. It is clear to everyone that the discussion of 8 000 amendments, even for the time strictly necessary for a brief illustration of them, an equally brief explanation of vote and an equally short, indeed instant, voting technique, would not allow us, by working on the three to four days of the week we devote to the work of this House, to complete the examination of the measure even by the end of December of this year. I considered the request to reduce the number of amendments really reasonable, because it gave all of us the opportunity to keep them in the field, to discuss them - indeed, I would say to discuss them better, with greater depth and a better quality debate - those amendments to which each Group attached greater political importance. But this proposal has not been accepted by anyone and, if the amendments remain 8,000, President, we just have to increase the time of work, which I would like to remind you here I hear repeated by various groups for a year and a half. Let us increase the working time of this House. AIROLA (M5S). When it suits Renzi! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] ZANDA (PD). It's convenient for Italy right now. Mr Capelletti (M5S). It's good for you. ZANDA (PD). It's convenient for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Mussini]] It is convenient for you to reduce matters in this way by shredding them without giving a political sense. AIROLA (M5S). You're all Renzi's slaves. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] ZANDA (PD). We are in a very serious moment for our country. [[Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] We have huge problems to deal with. [[Senator Mussini's comments.]] CASTALDI (M5S). Do you have a conscience? [[Live protests of Senators Paglini and Cioffi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u48	Silence, I have not given permission to speak except to Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u49	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, let me say that I am mortified by this way of dealing with matters without even listening to them; it mortifies me. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Work, work. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u50	Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u51	ZANDA (PD). I repeat to the House that we are going to vote on this timetable and we think that at the moment the senators should give them all the time so that the measures they have on the agenda are examined with the necessary depth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u54	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, to the point where we are, I believe that these moments of the sitting are a necessary reposition of the Conference of Leaders in a more obvious, public and participated way. I drew your attention at the Conference of the Leaders on the fact that in literature, but in political language and in the debate that took place over time at the time of the debate on constitutional reforms, it has always been said that reforms must be widely shared. The reason why they must be widely shared is not only liberality, it is enough to read Article 72 of the Constitution to understand that it is a necessity. In fact, if the reforms are not widely shared, the constituent Fathers have established, in Article 72, with the guarantee of the process of formation of the laws in relation to constitutional reforms and electoral laws, that these cannot be done. We are, therefore, at the point where a badly-written, badly-written constitutional reform by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is before the House. I was advised by Vice-President Scavone that what Senator Zanda said about the 8,000 amendments gives rise to another observation, another reasoning and another deduction: if 8,000 amendments are tabled, if hundreds of members of this Parliament intervene on them, it means that there is a need for 8,000 amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It means that the reform is not well done, that it needs to be discussed, that time cannot be limited, restricted. When 8,000 amendments are tabled, the malaise is evident either in the sense that they do not want to do that reform or do so only under changed conditions. Well, the reason why the government does not realize that the conditions must have changed on this side of the House is not understood. I was saying this morning: the President-in-Office of the Council wants to see a positive outcome from his failure in relation to his plans or, because of his limited experience, wants to behave with the Senate Assembly as he did with the City Council, where the Municipal Councils always do what the Mayor wants because they are afraid that the latter will decide to dissolve it. [[Applause from the LAGs, FI-PdL XVII eLN-Aut and Senator Mussini.]] This is the Senate Chamber, it is not a municipal council: a parliament that has two thousand years of history, which has remained open even during the years of fascism. The Senate of the Republic was understood by politics as the temple of democracy; is it ever possible that we should proceed on the path of communication? And first of all, the communication of the... we bring the measure to the Chamber on 3 July... and then the communication of the... we begin the general discussion... and now the other of the... we work on Saturdays and Sundays. With regard to Saturday and Sunday, Mr President, there is only one weekend in which to work and then, among other things, as far as I am concerned, Saturday is preparation, as lectio divina, for the passage of the Gospel of the following day: now there is the cycle of the Gospel of Matthew and I really would not want to miss these occasions. [[Applause from the LAG, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u57	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to remind my colleagues of the debate this morning. You think that this morning we were all talking about leghold trap: it was said that surely in the group leader would put the leghold trap in it, but they didn't have the courage to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, they did not have the courage to do so for now, because in the Conference of the Leaders that word remained in the air, like an ectoplasm that was circling the room. The majority in that room, in that Conference of the Leaders, asked us whether we are willing to give up the debate and whether we are willing to give up the amendments. Why would we do that? Faced with what? Ladies and gentlemen, I give up the debate and give up the amendments - it seems that we must give up the devil. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - the problem, however, is to understand what the priorities of this majority, and above all of this Government, are, because I feel that I have understood that the priority is not so much of the majority as of the government. The priority is to respect the time and fateful date of August 8, because our President-in-Office of the Council must take a selfie with behind the calendar and the writing: August 8th. I did it! [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-MovX and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Malan]] Or, speaking constructively, are the contents the priority? Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the content is the priority, since you have done so in the 7th Committee on Culture, I would like to refer to the sender who says that we are doing obstructionism. We're doing "constructionism," not "obstructionism." [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bonfrisco.]] We are talking about 8,000 amendments. I speak for myself and not for other colleagues, although I am in solidarity with colleagues from other groups, who have decided to put forward all those amendments constructively. The League has tabled 80 out of 8,000 and you have the nerve to come and ask us to withdraw the amendments! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici]] You have the nerve to come and ask us to withdraw 80 out of 8,000 amendments. In those 80 amendments we made specific proposals and requests to the Government, also saying: All right, of those amendments we consider only a few of them. The answer came to the Commission today by the Undersecretary, who told me very clearly that I am not admissible, because we want to make Padania. Dear Undersecretary and dear President Zanda, if this is the Government's response to our constructive proposals, then: thank you and goodbye! I would add another important thing: this is not obstructionism, because if the offices have stated that these amendments are admissible, it means that this is not obstructionism and that these amendments deserve a political response, whether in this House or outside, or in the Commission, as we had requested. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] They deserve a political response, which this government has not yet given. There are 8,000 amendments, Mr President, which should become 5,000, apparently. As we have said on more than one occasion, at the previous Conferences of the Leaders and even today, we will never be able to complete the debate by 8 August. We'll never make it by August 8th, working seven days out of seven, thirteen hours a day. We're never gonna make it! President Zanda, dear Senators of the Democratic Party and of the majority, also made this very clear. You will not succeed and we will never be able to reach the vote by 8 August. The problem is that your Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, remind me a little of those captains who, during the Second World War, led their soldiers to withdraw from Russia, even if they knew that many would not make it: they had to walk seven days out of seven; they had to achieve the goal, because life was worth it - in this case it is worth bringing home a measure and an amendment - even though they knew that many would not make it. Colleagues - I have said this ironically - the League Group is not prepared to vote on such a calendar, because we want to talk about content and we want the Constitution to be treated in time. But if you want to challenge us about the times, we're in. Our Group is on average young, so if it takes you 24 hours a day here in this House, we are here, but it is you who will have to keep the quorum, you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bisinella.]] We are certainly available to compare ourselves in this House, amendment by amendment, article by article; Let's face it! President Zanda was mortified by the attack of his colleagues in the 5 Star Movement at the time of his intervention. President Zanda, as a senator, but above all as an Italian citizen, I feel sorry for the way you are treating the Constitution and the reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u60	[[Senator Bencini points out that she wants to intervene.]] Senator Bencini, for the Mixed Group, Senator De Petris has already spoken; Senator Bignami has also spoken, even if only for a joke. Please, Senator Petrocelli. PETROCELLI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. It is our intention to make it clear that we are prepared to take this measure seriously. I have already said at the Conference of Leaders that we are very willing to go even beyond 8 August, which is a date of the fall of the measure that we cannot, however, share. So let's go even beyond August 8. If at this moment, however, we are voting on two very precise calendar proposals - that of Senator De Petris and that of Senator Paolo Romani - from our point of view we would be in favour of maintaining the original calendar, without prejudice to the full willingness to work on the part of the 5 Star Movement, which does not have to go on vacation, has nowhere to go. We are very willing to continue to work here, as I said at the Conference of Leaders, because for this reason we are paid, even after 8 August, also throughout the month of August, perhaps even hopefully arriving in September, when they could really decant the issues that President Renzi and the majority want to accelerate. This is our position. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u63	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all well aware of the issues that are on the agenda of our work during this period, which anticipates the summer break and the one following this break. We have a duty to adopt measures of an institutional nature and, at the same time, of an economic and social nature. In September, we will be called upon to approve the Stability Act, with the demanding features that are linked to the constraints that bind us to the Union, one way or another, and the ambitious objectives of reducing the tax burden in structural terms, for the other. As well as the examination of this Senate is also the draft law delegates at work, which would like to carry out an overall reform of our labour market, from its institutions to its rules. It is necessary that institutional reforms can only reasonably proceed if they receive this first approval from the Senate in the times we have assumed. Not approving constitutional reform before the summer break would inevitably mean giving up on it. There is an inexorable equation between the temporal path that this calendar envisages and the end of constitutional reform. We will in no way be able to discuss this in September, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, for the law of stability, for the law of delegation at work, for those measures of an economic and social nature that are necessary to face an economic depression that is worsening in Europe and not only in our country. In this context, we have asked the opposition not only to withdraw the proposed amendments pro rata, but above all to focus parliamentary attention - as Mr Paolo Romani mentioned earlier - on the few points which are still considered unresolved by the parliamentary debate. In other words, we asked to contribute to fruitful parliamentary work through the concentration of the debate on these few but significant issues, thus encouraging also that political initiative that is up to the Government to remove the reasons for many oppositions. In the absence of this availability, which until now has not been allowed by the oppositions, the need has been set for a more demanding timetable, which allows us reasonably to approve the constitutional reform before the summer break. I therefore believe that the time we have been given before the start of the new parliamentary calendar, which I hope the House will now approve, will have to be used for dialogue between the Government and the parliamentary groups and between the parliamentary groups themselves, because I continue to think that the will for constitutional reform prevails in this House: to renounce it would mean to add to the economic and social crisis a system crisis, an institutional crisis such as would result with that induction to the vicious circuit of mistrust that would result - I insist - by not producing a long-awaited reform. That is why we reaffirm our support for that timetable and our opposition to the other proposals that have been made here. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u66	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, it is clear that there is a very tense climate in this House. The debate and the dialectic on such a conflicting theme can sometimes lead the souls to exasperation. I really hope that there can be a moment of resistance on the part of each of us, of a tranquillity that does not mean suffering the delicacy of the debate that characterizes these hours and will characterize the next few days. It is an invitation to me, which obviously leaves the time it finds, to avoid the dimensions of the personalization of the debate and the dialectic, a dimension many times exquisitely personal or of groups that could affect the nobility of the debate that has characterized these days and that will characterize the next. With regard to the timetable approved by a majority in the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, I must stress that this equally places two demands on the same plan: further time is available for reflection and deepening, but the other time, that of the decision, is equally taken into consideration, which cannot be further postponed, just as Senator Sacconi pointed out a few minutes ago. Therefore, on behalf of the Group, which I am trying to interpret, clearly in this case by a majority, I agree with what was agreed at the Conference of Leaders. We must not be afraid of the timetable and of dealing with such a delicate issue by having even more time available. However, we have had a great deal of time to debate before the Commissions, during the Commissions and then in the discussion of these hours. I therefore believe that the time has also come for the decision. Otherwise, that would mean that we do not want to do anything and that we do not want to do anything within a reasonable time. [[Applause from Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u69	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I too agree with the timetable proposed at the Conference of the Leaders. At this point, I find it very difficult to say that there is no obstructionist attitude aimed at preventing us from continuing, with serenity and gathering the demands of the opposition in this House, our work towards the conclusion of the debate. I believe that as a majority we have the right and the duty to give a signal, especially to those outside, of the desire to continue the discussion of reforms with willingness and confrontation here, but also with equal firmness. We are therefore in favour of the timetable that has been communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u70	We've listened to all the group leaders. Now, if there are senators who wish to make other proposals, they can intervene for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u73	Cotti (M5S). I don't want to waste my time, so I read my proposal quickly. It provides that tomorrow, Wednesday 23 July, we will first examine draft law No 1563, culture and tourism: since its examination in the Commission is concluded, we do not understand why we have to wait until 28 July, also because it expires on 30 July; otherwise we will be obliged to see the question of trust in this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also call for the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement on Thursday 24 July on the situation in Gaza - before Gaza completely disappears - and the possible conclusion of bill 1563. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Next Friday we could examine Decree-Law No 91. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u74	Please, we can't even hear the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u75	Cotti (M5S). From Monday 28 we could resume the examination of the constitutional bills. As for the timetables, I agree with those proposed by the majority, except that I would set a break between 9 p.m. and 10 p.m., to allow dinner, perhaps by moving the end of the sitting from midnight to 1 p.m. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition, other decrees which expire in August or September could be added next week, possibly suspending the examination of constitutional reform. I give the written proposal to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u78	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I am voting against this report by my group. I would point out to colleagues and those who listen to us that we are not offering our fellow citizens a good service in this way. This way of working for a constitutional reform that should gather as much consensus as possible because it regulates life...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u79	Senator Campanella, I gave you the floor for a minute to make a proposal. At the moment, he cannot express his disagreement with the Group; he can only make a proposal. This is a debate limited only to proposals for changes to the timetable. Let's not open this door. If you propose an amendment in one minute, you have every opportunity to do so because the Rules of Procedure allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u80	We propose that we interrupt the debate on reforms and resume it after the summer break in order to have time to cool our minds and to make a reasoning that can be useful for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u83	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, with regard to the timetable proposed by President Romani, I believe that tomorrow, with the greatest urgency, foreign policy issues should be dealt with, as has been said before, given that the situation in Palestine is very serious and that in Ukraine it is no less, and immediately after dealing with one of the main problems of our country that is the fight against corruption. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups]] That's what citizens want! We'll schedule the bill on the fight against corruption right away. So my proposal is in these terms: the same timetable proposed; in addition tomorrow's debate on foreign policy and at the next sitting the debate on the anti-corruption bill begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u86	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, keeping the times proposed by the Democratic Party (i.e. starting at 9.30 and ending at 24.00, Saturday and Sunday included) I propose that we postpone the draft Constitutional Reform Act to the anti-corruption bill. In the alternative, if they want to maintain constitutional reforms for the Premier's whim, from 24 until the reopening of the plenary session, the examination of motions of distrust for ministers Lorenzin, Guidi, Poletti and Alfano that are certainly indicative of which government is proposing constitutional reforms! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u89	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, if we were to do something reasonable like Wednesday and Thursday afternoon... [[Brusio]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). You can't hear anything. Let's turn it up, please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, you should always talk to her who has a hard voice. He should be a spokesperson for the whole House. [[Laughter]] Anyway, thanks for your cooperation. [[Brusio.]] Please, a little silence. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I propose that we look at all the existing decree-laws in this House and deal with the reform of our Constitution only every Wednesday and Thursday afternoon. We can proceed in this way. We will arrive at Christmas, peace, but we will. We will not then have the problem of the law of stability, we will not have the problem of the decree of competitiveness in expiration, we will not have the problem of all decrees-armored laws because there is no time. I shall conclude by saying that on Thursday afternoon there will be no answers from our ministers, but I think we will be able to do without them for a few months.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u92	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, television and newspapers are talking about what is happening with the ship Concordia these days, perhaps because they want to divert attention from this vile reform of the Senate. By making myself strong on what you said on the 22nd anniversary of the incident at Moby Prince, namely that it is urgent to set up a Commission of Inquiry into Unsolved Massacres in Italy, I ask, please, to consider being able to talk about the massacre in Livorno on the Moby Prince against which we as a 5 Star Movement have presented a bill with which we propose to set up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. This is in respect not only of the family members of the victims, but also of your own will, Mr President, and of the will expressed by Senator Matteoli on the same, the same reason a few days before the election of the mayor of Livorno. So if we all agree, I'd like this to be the calendar next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u95	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am making this proposal to change the timetable of work... [[Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u96	Sorry, I don't want any protests. We apply the Rules of Procedure. Anyone can make a proposal in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u97	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I gave you a minute, and time's up, the microphone's gonna turn off. CRIMI (M5S). I'll be very fast, but I hope the minute starts now. My proposal is as follows. These constitutional reforms will come into force in 2018, unless someone tells us something different, for example that there is the intention to have the Chambers dissolved first by those who say they are in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If they come into force in 2018, then we can also postpone them to September. In the meantime, I repeat the proposal made yesterday: to start with the decrees, including the one on anti-corruption, and let's put in the beginning of the debate on the bill that I filed today for a prior consultative referendum with respect to constitutional reforms, in which people are asked if they want an elective Senate, the reduction of Members, immunity, the reduction of allowances. Let's ask ourselves all the questions that we can build together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u100	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, despite the fact that everyone is now doing mathematics after I have already explained at the Conference of Leaders... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Marton, you have a proposal to make. MARTON (M5S). Okay. As already requested the other day, the decrees in order to expire should be dealt with first, the decree-law on anti-corruption immediately after, postponing to September the constitutional reform. In the alternative, regarding the times of the sessions: from 9 to 13 and from 14 to 23, excluding Saturday mornings for those who must participate in the religious services.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u103	MARTELLI (M5S). The proposal for an amendment that I am about to make is as follows: tomorrow we are debating motions of no confidence for Mr Guidi, Mr Poletti and Mr Alfano. On Thursday we set up the Commission of Inquiry into the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which has been waiting for more than a year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The question time will take place on Thursday afternoon, because it is right that the questions should have an answer. From Friday we begin the discussion of the decree-law culture, because it expires, and to follow the decree-law n. 91 also in expiration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u106	NUGNES (M5S). I propose to suspend the discussion of the constitutional bill and to give it the broad scope it needs, also calling for the attention of the public opinion, moving it appropriately to 8 September. First we will have to face Decree-Law No. 91, which will expire on 24 August, which deals with issues ranging from buffalo mozzarella to made in Italy, from reclamations to military areas, from waste management to the spread-incentive on renewables, and from last night at 22.20 also of Ilva, replacing the sixth decree on Ilva. It is frightened, because there will be no time, that the government will ask for trust. So I think it is necessary to interrupt the House now in order to allow Commissions 5a and 13a... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u109	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, who has racked up the work with the ruling of an abusive urgency? Who called for the withdrawal of amendments to the Commission? It's always the government that's responsible for this... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, put forward your proposal. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The question of amendments is not technical: he said so... PRESIDENT. Senator Endrizzi, what's your proposal? ENDRIZZI (M5S). If you'll excuse me, in a minute... We want to hear the proposed change in the timetable and not the explanatory statement. ENDRIZZI (M5S). My proposal to change the calendar is to put before the discussion of decree-laws and give time over this period, to the government to reflect on what it has heard: to dissolve the nodes of the incandidability of the condemned, to halve the number of parliamentarians, to remove parliamentary immunity. At that point, with a perhaps elective Senate, you will see that perhaps the amendments will fall on their own and democracy will rise.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u112	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask urgently for information from Minister Padoan on the recommendations of the Ecofin and what Europe is asking of us, on the reform of education and training, on labour and welfare reform and on the reform of justice, because in politics lies are not needed, Senator Zanda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u115	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to start by suspending the examination of this draft law in order to deal with the decrees of culture, competitiveness and delegation to work. These are the answers that we should give: a little 'for the tight times of the decrees and then because, as far as delegation is concerned, we should give answers, since this country asks for work and has a high unemployment rate. On the current draft law that we are examining, since we are currently not good Constituents (it seems obvious to me), let us re-establish ourselves by doing what we need pragmatically. After that, we're going to discuss this bill. There's time. The country doesn't die if the Senate isn't reformed. The country goes down for other reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u118	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, congratulations on the willingness, at last, to work more. My proposal is as follows. As pointed out by one of the senators of this part of the hemicycle, the Constitution protects religious confessions. Therefore, without prejudice to the hours of the Chamber from 9.30 am to midnight, I propose to protect religious confessions by leaving the days of Saturday and Sunday free and, instead, to be in agreement and solidarity with Italians who do not go on holiday, to give up the summer break; therefore, to proceed beyond 8 August, without prejudice to the protection of 15 August which, however, for our religion is a feast. I propose that we postpone the constitutional reforms, which we do not believe to be fundamental, in October; put Parliament at the centre, using the morning for debates in the Chamber and all afternoon, until midnight, to analyse the various draft laws deposited in the Commissions and never analysed (making Parliament a real forum for discussion of the draft laws, starting with the anti-corruption one) and then discuss the consultative referendum on constitutional reforms, so that in October we will know what the citizens want and therefore we will all be able to fulfil our role as spokesperson... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u121	You have the right to do so. We will have the record of the fifty proposals of change of the calendar. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, oddly enough, I have to agree with the timetable proposed by Senator Zanda, because I just got the call from a friend I couldn't convince. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not want the reasons, nor does it need to bring his friends into the Chamber. CASTALDI (M5S). He told me to soon reform the second part of the Constitution because he has no food for his children.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u122	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or do so immediately to give immunity and to let the delinquent regional advisors into the Senate. Do it now! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u123	Senator Castaldi, you must make a serious proposal to change the calendar. I don't admit this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u124	CASTALDI (M5S). I accept the schedule proposed by Senator Zanda but, since we start work on Monday at 11 a.m., unlike the other days, I propose to start at 6 a.m. with the anti-corruption bill. Then I come to the proposal of the undemocratic party. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u127	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, my proposal is to include as the main topic what citizens need: citizenship income as the first measure to be discussed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The second point is anti-corruption. Thirdly, the bill that excludes from the Internal Stability Pact the expenses incurred by municipalities and provinces for educational, cultural and socio-assistant services, of the dearest Senator Montevecchi. Then, the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into Deiulemar's bankruptcy: fortunately, last week, on this very failure, the judges gave several years of imprisonment to these bandits. Finally, of course, we are prepared to discuss constitutional reform, so we are proposing an advisory referendum in which citizens will really choose what they want within the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u130	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, with a view to increasing the amount of work done, I propose that three sessions be held, from Monday to Saturday, one in the morning, one in the afternoon and one in the evening. In that morning, I propose to manage all the bill: citizenship income, anti-corruption law, defiance and so on. In the afternoon, if you want to move on with this unholy change, that's fine. In the evening I propose that we proceed to the Commission, until 11 p.m., with the decrees-laws due to expire. Let us give a few examples: the uniform identification code, the handling of which should be advanced at an advanced stage of discussion in the first Commission, or the Commission of Inquiry into the FTA, as there have also been 20 arrests in this area. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u133	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, in order (as we do now), we could receive the communication from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what is happening in Gaza, so we will finally understand that the whole problem, as always, is concentrated on the Golan Heights and on the gas deposits that are in the hands of the Palestinians. So maybe we start to understand. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] I propose, then: the bill anticorruption; the decree-law n. 91 on the competitiveness; the decree-law culture; just returns from the Chamber, the decree-law n. 90 on the public administration; the insertion of the harbour reform that we are discussing in the Commission for nine months and that it would be the case to bring to the Hall; finally, the examination of the motions that concern the usury. We have tabled a motion concerning usury (which will be very important for Italians, since they are suffering), and a motion concerning energy, with which we finally understand how we want to intervene on energy: these are motions no. 176 and... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u134	Time's up. That's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u137	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I propose an extremely similar timetable to that proposed by my colleague, Mr Fattori, with the addition of working also during August and the inclusion in the order of discussion of the Decree-Law on competitiveness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I also thank you for your briefness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u140	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I propose that on Thursday 24 and Friday 25 the Decree-Law No 91 on competitiveness be examined, which expires on 25 July; that on Monday and Tuesday the Decree-Law on tourism, which expires on 30 July; that on Wednesday 30 and Thursday 31 the Decree-Law No 90 on public administration and, to follow, Decree-Law No 92 on prison matters and, only to follow, the draft Constitutional Reform Act be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u143	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief. I propose a change in the timetable by trying to sum up the various proposals. I therefore propose working from Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m., without the closing of the holidays in August, so that everyone can have the opportunity to deepen the debate on constitutional reforms. In addition, to try to meet Senator Zanda, I ask that the bill on citizenship income be scheduled for Tuesday, July 29, so that Senator Zanda can come out and say that he also talks about work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u146	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I propose that we amend the timetable agreed at the Conference of the Leaders by interrupting the debate on this draft law, which is not widely shared, as is shown, in order to include the debate on the Art Bonus Decree on Monday, because the Commission is ready and, therefore, it could be easily dealt with. Next, I propose to include the anti-mafia Commission's draft since last week it went to L'Aquila and the mayor was not even present at the hearing and they are about to give 6 or 7 billion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's the proposal? These outline things are not relevant. BLUNDO (M5S). The proposal is to insert a draft law of the Commission of Inquiry to assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u149	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, in accepting the demands of both the left and the right, but above all of ours, I propose that we set up a sort of constitutional Friday. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u150	Express yourself in Italian, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u151	LUCIDES (M5S). Constitutional Friday allows you to reserve the discussion of these serious reforms and take part in the Friday day and continue with the issues that really interest the Italians in the time followed so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u154	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I propose that the draft law on the re-publicisation of the Apulian aqueduct be put into effect tomorrow, including in order to follow up the 2011 referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask you to include a question time session on Thursday afternoon, to follow the debate on Mr Alfano's motion of no confidence, the cultural decree, Decree No 91 on competitiveness and at the end of constitutional reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u157	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, my proposal is to discuss the Art Bonus Decree tomorrow in the House. My colleagues in the Democratic Party will take responsibility for this if this decree does not arrive in the Chamber tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposal; please, Senator Montevecchi. Montevecchi (M5S). It's important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is important that you make the proposal to amend the timetable. Montevecchi (M5S). It is important for the vote on the calendar because this decree may not be properly examined if it does not arrive in the Chamber tomorrow because the deadline is 30 July and putting it in the Chamber on 28 means not to examine it. Next, I propose that we discuss the real art bonus decree, which deals with culture and tourism, and that we include the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what is happening in Gaza because we would like to know what our position is and what the prospects are. We propose to discuss later Decree-Law No 91 on competitiveness and, therefore, the anti-corruption bill that has been on the table for a long time. They showed us that it wasn't just a campaign slogan. Finally, I propose that the debate on the reform of Title V of the Constitution and its annexes be included on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u160	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I too take the cue of Senator Zanda, who encourages us to take care of the needs of Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u161	Make your proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u162	Mr Capelletti (M5S). I therefore do not consider in my proposal this unnecessary constitutional reform, but I propose in the immediacy the discussion of its provision, President Grasso, the Senate Act No. 19 and related, which for a year and a half has been taking dust in a drawer of the Justice Commission of this House [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And it is only called for by the 5 Star Movement, also because Europe is asking us to have a serious anti-corruption law. Next, I propose that we look at measures relating to fakes in social and fake communications in the budget, self-laundering and conflict of interest, according to a timetable of 9.30 a.m. to midnight, in all respects. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u165	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I propose that the debate on the draft Constitutional Act be suspended until the four motions of mistrust for ministers Lorenzin, Poletti, Guidi and Alfano are held in the Chamber, since it is a draft law of the Government that deserves no confidence, so let us first resolve this issue, and then, if anything, continue the debate on the draft Constitutional Law. I also propose to include the discussion of the anti-corruption decree and the decrees in expiration, continuing with the hours from 9 to 21, with lunch break from 14 to 16. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u166	I have to suspend the sitting for a few minutes to put together the subjects on which to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u169	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the proposal to work in this House until 24, the 5 Star Movement is ready, but I would ask that the pause for the work of the Commission be extended from 13:30 to 15:00, from 13:30 to 17: we have several measures in due course and I propose the scheduling of two motions, No 166, the moratorium on incinerators, at the first signature of Senator Nugnes, and the motion on the downgrading of the Sites of National Interest, by virtue of the recent sentence of the TAR Lazio which rejected precisely the downgrading of the SIN. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u172	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my proposal to the others, which is to suspend the examination of constitutional reform and to give more time to the Commission for justice so that we can devote ourselves fully to the draft law No 1052 on homophobia, which has been lying at the bottom of the drawer for months, so that we can have the opportunity to analyse it better and reach a conclusion as soon as possible. As for the timetables, we don't back down because we work like all the other Italians out of here and we don't have the problem of having to cancel the holidays that have been booked for a long time, because surely this is also the reason for this acceleration. We are therefore willing to work from morning to evening, even late at night.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u175	DE PIN (Misto-ILC). Mr President, my proposal is to keep the sitting dedicated to the question time, perhaps moving it to Friday afternoon, because I think it is right that the government should respond to our demands. We are willing to work and I ask the government to do its part. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u176	I would like to suspend the sitting for a few minutes, so that the Presidency can gather together the many issues which have been called for to be included in the agenda so that we can then proceed to the vote. (The sitting was suspended at 6.50 p.m. and resumed at 6.50 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would ask my colleagues to come to their seats because they vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u179	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make it clear, on behalf of President Romani, that your proposal to keep the timetable prior to this Conference of Leaders naturally includes the closure of tomorrow's work at 6.45 p.m. to allow the senators to take part in the vote of Parliament in a joint sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That was obvious. We can't do anything different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u182	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to point out that my proposal provided for the early closure of tomorrow's sitting. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the proposed amendments to the timetable in accordance with the order of vote laid down in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. from the farthest to the timetable approved by a majority by the Conference of Leaders. Therefore, the first vote will concern the proposal to include additional items in the agenda. If this proposal is accepted, we shall proceed with the vote on the individual proposals for inclusion, starting with that of Senator De Petris, who is the first to be made. I put to the vote the proposal to include additional items in the agenda. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the number of sessions and the times of the sessions, even beyond the date of 8 August. [[Comments of Senators Bottici and Lezzi.]] It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to anticipate all decree-laws in relation to the constitutional reform bill. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the examination of the constitutional reform to the resumption of work, after the summer break. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal made by President Romani to keep the timetable in place. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u186	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make one important point: someone had asked for respect for religious minorities, which has not been taken into account. The Constitution protects religious minorities, so Saturdays and Sundays. [[Applause from Senators Cappelletti and Liuzzi.]] It is very important to me that this should be put to the vote, because in every civil society it is possible to respect the days of worship. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u187	Maybe she wasn't very careful, Senator Fattori. With the second proposal, the proposal to postpone the number of sessions and the times of the sessions was voted on, even beyond the date of 8 August. This remodulation also includes the problem of Saturday and Sunday that has been proposed. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u188	Let us resume with the agenda of the sitting, continuing - let us not forget - with the explanation of the amendments tabled to Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u189	We have seen a beautiful muscular action, with which you want to continue to move forward on this reform, which is obviously not shared. However, if you think that, by extending the time, you will be able to bring this reform home, send an embassy to the President of the Council to tell him that you will not succeed anyway, because a constitutional reform is either shared or not, and this is a fundamental pre-conception. Turning to Rule 1, to which you referred, Mr President, the amendment that I am going to present concerns Rule 55, what we have at the root of the speech, in which it is written that each member of the House represents the nation, while the Senate represents the territorial institutions. This vision, as well as the one we saw a moment ago, represents a becero exercise of power, because power is conceived as action, not already to protect the collective interest, but in this case the specific interest. It is therefore the concept of being able to fall and perhaps we should remember that what we must free ourselves from in order to be right people and to do right things is to free ourselves from the very idea of power. [[Brusio]] I'm sorry, I know you don't care, because you don't care what we say.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u190	Senator Cioffi, please continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u191	CIOFFI (M5S). I know it's not important, because you've already written about constitutional reform. And, even if you didn't write it down and you didn't have it in mind because only one wrote it, which commands... president. What amendment are you presenting, Senator Cioffi? CIOFFI (M5S). Amendment 1,1930, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome, then. CIOFFI (M5S). It is true that we have to present an amendment - and I was trying to do this - but I repeat that explaining an amendment makes sense or does not have it, so I wonder what is the point of continuing to speak, given that what we say does not matter. However, since we talked about a Senate representing territorial institutions, we wonder why such a Senate should be set up. In 1774 a gentleman, English, reminded us that Parliament should not be a congress of ambassadors of opposing and hostile interests, but the deliberative Assembly of a nation with only one interest, that of the whole, of the community, and should not be guided by local interests, but tend to the general good. This concept was also included in the first constitution after the French Revolution in 1791, in which it was written that representatives of the departments would not be representatives of a specific department, but of the entire nation. [[Brusio.]] What a struggle! (at 19.09 p.m.) (Followed by CIOFFI). The French Constitution was based on the principle of Montesquieu, which is dear to many people, according to which the Parliament legislates and the Commission executes, even if the Commission does nothing here because it thinks only of carrying out its own will and not that of Parliament: we always repeat this concept, because this is the drift towards which we are going. On the other hand, the engraving that the senators represent the nation before was written in Article 67 and was linked to the bond of mandate; we will talk about it when we arrive at Article 5. But the concept that represents the nation is a fundamental fact, because it cannot represent the opposing interests of different regions or of different territorial institutions. On the other hand, Professor Della Mura told you that when he came to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, he told you all these things, so perhaps there is no need to repeat them. However, when the nation's representation passes to the representation of territorial institutions, how will the general interests be represented? In this we are helped by an interview that Minister Boschi did (sin that she left); when asked how much the senators will work, he replied that they will work so much, but in their region. He said that they will not be in Rome five days a week, but only one day or maybe two (not wanting to put a limit); they will not sit at the Madama Palace full time, because they have their work on the territory. So, I repeat what I said last time: you want to make the Senate useless. This is the meaning you want to give: you want to make the outside feel that the Senate is a useless thing, while the Senate is an important thing (many have told you so), it is an institution that has existed for a very long time. And so - even here the government does not have the courage to do so - I provocatively told you to close the Senate, if that is what you want to make it, and I keep asking this question, to which the Government will never answer. On the other hand, the concept of Nation is a Mazzinian concept (we have a statue of it in front of us, maybe you never look at it). Mazzini said that peoples must be free and equal, have self-consciousness and affirm their individuality and principle, in short, be a nation, where humanity is the end and the nation is the means. Of course, it is an ancient concept, but perhaps it should be revised. So, if the nation is the means, how can we not say that the senators represent the nation? If there were Minister Boschi, we could tell you: is it a hallucination, Minister Boschi, to say that the Senate will be reduced to a post-work railway, where the senators will play bowls to decide whether the interests of Campania are more or less important than those of Basilicata? This vision proposes a chaotic model. And isn't chaos the antechamber of an authoritarian turning point, the one already seen in Italicum? So far the debate on the amendment. I repeat that this way of doing things is not good to see. You want to keep us here, you want to talk some sense into it? We are willing to reason until Christmas; that is not the problem. I just hope the government understands what we're trying to do. We are trying to explain to you that you are listening to us - in a purely theoretical and hypothetical way, of course, because our job would be to listen to us, even if it becomes tiring - because this reform is wrong and because we are fighting a whole series of points. If you want a majority reform to go through, it will not go through the citizens' scrutiny, because it is not possible to think that a majority will decide, if the majority decides something and not just the government. Perhaps we have already overturned the principle of separation of powers between the executive and the legislative. Many have told you that in this way will be chosen the President of the Republic and the judges of the Constitutional Court; and the representation of the nation we have sent to charter forty-eight. I tried to say the other time I was going to have a quiet and calm surgery. Even today I have tried to make a calm and calm intervention, but this calm who knows how long it will last, because, when we continue to see that what we are discussing is not considered and is not taken into consideration and you will vote for the amendments to show that you are democratic, when you are not democratic, maybe we could get angry. But the problem is not that we get angry, but that people can get angry out here. And if people get angry out here, maybe it's time you started running. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u194	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would just like to point out - since it has already been done by the President of the Chamber of Deputies - that today a former colleague of ours, Senator Giovanni Bersani, is 100 years old (he has been a senator for many years). Therefore, I would like the Presidency to support the happy birthday greetings that have been addressed to the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u195	I agree, but I must point out, quite rightly, that Senator Puglisi asked for a speech on this subject, which we postponed at the end of the sitting. Anyway, given the calendar we have, we don't miss the time! I repeat that the Presidency supports the wishes of Senator Bersani, who has turned 100 years old. Then, when you want to speak, we will also give the floor to Mr Puglisi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.1980, to which I have already added my signature. This is an amendment to paragraph 1 which affects Article 55 of the Constitution and, in particular, to the fourth paragraph provides for the deletion of the words "in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution." In essence, we talk about the functions of the Chambers: while the reform provides that the Chamber of Deputies is the holder of the relationship of trust with the Government and exercises the function of political direction, the legislative function and that of controlling the work of the Government, it provides that the Senate will compete to exercise the legislative function in the cases and according to established modalities of the Constitution. With this rule, therefore, a disparity of functions is introduced, with which we will take the path of overcoming the perfect bicameralism. In my opinion, it is important to study what would lead us to the end of the perfect bicameralism and what utility it would bring to the country. It could be useful to speed up Parliament's work by passing laws in a shorter time. It is necessary, however, to consider the fact that at present, while a Chamber examines a bill, the other Chamber examines another, and therefore works both at the same time. If the House of Deputies retains its legislative function on everything, it is obvious that there will be no time savings, except for the little that can be saved in cases where a bill passes from the House to the Senate more than twice; in most cases, however, the examination of a measure is resolved at most with a fast third reading. Therefore, saving time would not be great, because the House of Deputies should still examine all draft laws. Only if a differentiation had been envisaged by greatly limiting the powers of both Chambers and by literally dividing the matters in which they are competent could an effective reduction in the time taken to approve the laws be achieved. Therefore, it is not - I repeat - much to speed up Parliament's work. What's the point? Saving money. Honestly, it doesn't seem to me that simply cutting wages to senators can significantly reduce our expenses. The reduction in expenditure would have been much more significant if the proposals of the 5 Star Movement Group had been followed up by half the number of senators and deputies accompanied by half the salaries of both. Basically, the salary bill of MPs and senators would be reduced to a quarter allowing a much higher saving than the present reform. Why, then, put an end to the perfect bicameralism? There are those who have made comparisons with other European realities, for example, with Germany where there is, in fact, a House that counts much more, the Bundestag, while the Bundesrat, which is the expression of the Regions, has much less powers. However, it must be borne in mind that in Germany there are Länder which have much more legislative powers than in our regions. There are many strong regions: in this sense the fact that the Bundesrat, the House of Representatives of the Regions, has less power is balanced by the fact that the Regions have many. Instead, in this reform with the modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, the Regions (immediately those with ordinary statutes, after the adaptation also those with special Statute), the powers of these same Regions are depleted, weakening them considerably. A House that represents these Regions and has limited powers, which for example cannot express confidence in the Government, makes no sense and is not reflected in other countries that have imperfect bicameralism and that have a Chamber of Regions that counts less than the Main Chamber. Honestly, I cannot see where the advantage lies and where the opportunities offered by such a reform lie. Or rather, perhaps I can see it because the real aims of this reform are unconfessible and are all directed to the strong centralization of the powers in the hands of the Government. In fact, with the elimination of the perfect bicameralism is expected a bizarre election of the Senate of the Republic, which is not an election, but a nomination made by regional advisors. This allows us to imagine how negotiations would be made to decide who would appoint in the Senate of the Republic within the Regional Councils, between regional councillors, and how mayors who should be part of this Senate would be chosen. They would certainly be chosen with negotiations between party secretaries or within the same party between currents to arrange in a scientific way their own men and give even more powers to political parties to the detriment of voters, who could not decide to choose this Senate of the Republic. For this reason I am opposed to overcoming this form of perfect bicameralism. I am not opposed on principle to overcoming the perfect bicameralism, but that is certainly not the answer to having a more efficient Parliament. Rather than this reform, that this kind of Senate, perhaps it would be appropriate to think seriously of eliminating it completely and leaving only the Chamber of Deputies, although the reform that we of the 5 Star Movement Group prefer is the one that provides for half the number of MPs and senators and also salaries. This is one of the many amendments that tends to overcome the perfect bicameralism; there are many others and I hope that at least some of these will be paid attention by senators both to the majority and to the opposition who can make a different turn to this constitutional reform. I see that I still have about a minute and a half left, but I want to set an example because I do not want people to say that we are obstructing, so I finish my speech a minute earlier and I thank my colleagues for their attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u197	I appreciate the generosity, but I'm afraid the difference will not be taken, all in all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u198	This morning I had not given the floor to Senator Puglisi, who intended to intervene for a positive occasion, who previously recalled Senator Giovanardi, about Senator Giovanni Bersani, who turned 100. I therefore call Senator Puglisi to recall a positive fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u199	Mr President, this morning I asked to speak in order to address, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party and my staff, since I live in Bologna, my most sincere wishes for a happy birthday to Senator Giovanni Bersani, who is one hundred years old. Giovanni Bersani has accompanied the Republic for thirty years in Parliament and the European Parliament, and has always inspired his commitment by spending his life on the promotion of peace and international cooperation, founding the Christian Workers' Movement and CEFA, a non-governmental organization that brings peace and development especially in Africa and Latin America. It is from him that young people and especially all of us can learn an important lesson, which is to serve our country with particular attention to the weakest, to civil coexistence, and especially to those who remain behind. So, happy birthday, and I associate myself with the joy of our city celebrating it today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u200	The Presidency supports the wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u203	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I do not want to add anything more to what Mr Puglisi said. I have known for a long time Giovanni Bersani, who, among other things - I remind this House that he is very committed to international cooperation - was President of the Lomé Convention. Probably, in some periods of his life, Giovanni Bersani, was better known by the African Heads of State and saved more human lives in Africa than any Italian can imagine. In public life he has been a truly great personality, a personality of which our country must be proud, and still is today, that leads an existence evidently more folded in private, because at a hundred years it is difficult to travel around Africa. I am very happy to join and I think it is right that the whole Senate should give a big applause to a man so important to Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to endorse and explain Amendment No 1,2000. Article 55 of the Constitution, in a very simple and linear way, according to the style that characterizes our Constitution, provides that: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two chambers only in the cases laid down in the Constitution. The new Article 1 of Law No 1429, in a very questionable way, prescribes that: Article 55 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 55. The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Each member of the Chamber of Deputies represents the nation. The Chamber of Deputies holds the relationship of trust with the Government and exercises the function of political direction, the legislative function and that of controlling the work of the Government. The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions. It shall contribute, in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution, to the legislative function and shall act as a liaison between the European Union, the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic. It participates in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation. It evaluates the activities of public administrations, checks the implementation of state laws, controls and assesses public policies. He helps to express opinions on the appointments of the Government's competence in the cases provided for by law. The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two chambers only in the cases laid down in the Constitution." As you can see, this text proposed by the Commission, apart from minor changes, leaves the substance of the original government version unchanged. Our amendment to Article 1 of Law No 1429, although it is limited to a particular aspect of the linking function with the European Union, is therefore essential. I shall proceed to a quick reading of Amendment No 1,2000 before I begin my presentation. In Article 1, paragraph (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi Mr President, I am going to make a brief presentation of an additional amendment which, despite its apparent simplicity, nevertheless deserves our attention. In my opinion, if we really want to reform the Senate, the new Senate, as I hoped last week in this House, should be rethought in terms of a real high House. With this in mind, it is necessary that it contributes to the legislative function and, moreover, the intended linking function that should have between the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic should not be drawn in too reductive terms, not to say punitive. Simply participating in decisions aimed at the formation and implementation of EU legislation is far from being the function of a real high House worthy of this name. Replace the words "regulatory acts" with "regulatory" and "political" not only seems necessary but, in many respects, is not yet enough. We live a complex historical period, increasingly interconnected in its political, economic and social dynamics. Italy will have to play an increasingly active role within the European Union of which it belongs, if it wants to have at least a concrete opportunity to launch important national and international dossiers towards a resolution. The new Senate, if built taking into account the changed neighboring and distant scenarios, could be an effective and efficient tool to address national, regional and international challenges affecting Italy. The Senate should therefore be rethought in a balanced and rational way so that it can really make a contribution in terms of political vision and reforms that can embrace a broad period of time. In this context, European legislation and policies must, without a shadow of a doubt, clearly and directly fall within the competence of the Senate in its capacity as a High Chamber with a democratic guarantee, as a guarantee to the citizens. The Senate should be a Guarantee House for all citizens, composed of senators elected by popular suffrage. It should give the country a contribution in terms of political vision and far-reaching reforms, protection of long-term interests, as I said in a previous speech (but it is useful to reiterate that). The Senate should deal more effectively, among its main functions, with relations with European legislation, giving full implementation to that ascending phase that our country has never dealt with in a serious and effective way, to ensure that the national interest is brought to the European institutions at the stage in which European norms are born, which constitute a large part of the laws applied in Italy. The Senate could be entrusted, for example, with studies of the impact of European standards, reforms, laws of particular importance, but also with relations with major international institutions and parliamentary diplomacy. This House could act as a stimulus to the major reforms that Italy so urgently needs. In the firm belief that the new Senate, even if it is small in size, must continue to have a long-term and broad-ranging vision worthy of its name and history, I hope that this House will want to assess positively the integration proposed by my amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u205	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.0.5. After the article, insert the following: Article 1 -bis. (Reduction of the number of Members). Article 56 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Article 56. - The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage, the number of deputies is four hundred. All voters who were 21 years of age on the day of the election are eligible for Members. The distribution of seats between the districts is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by four hundred, distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each district, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains." With this amendment we call for the replacement of Article 56 of the Constitution and propose that the number of Members be increased from 630 to 400. The relative distribution of the seats between the districts will have to be made by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic by 400, again according to the last census of the population and with a distribution of the seats in proportion to the population of each district, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains. Let's do two things, so it becomes clearer: at present, the relationship between elected and citizens is one Member per 97,000 inhabitants. With our rewording of the article, the report will be of one Member for every 150,000 inhabitants. Mr. Renzi's government has focused everything on this reform, motivating it with a single phrase: "reduction of the costs of politics". Well, with the amendment that we propose we want to reduce the costs of politics and show that the system can be modernised and the costs of each individual Member, that is, the physiological costs, can really be cut down through more than simple steps, which will allow the state to achieve a considerable savings, which can be allocated to other expenditure chapters. Comparing the data between one nation and the other, it is clear that the relationship between elected and citizens is greater than that of Italy. The German model has been taken into account several times, for example in this House. What I would like to say is that when we try to adopt the models of our European partners we must bear in mind that it is not necessary to use the model of another nation to try to adapt it at all costs to the Italian one, because our history, our institutions and the excessive heterogeneity of our territory need an institutional introspection, finding an Italian model, therefore tailored. It follows, however, that the attempt to diet - because this is the case in fact - a state with the democratic fasting method can only create disruptions, just as in the case of a body subjected to a drastic and sudden diet. This is the method that the Government is trying to implement: completely eliminate popular sovereignty by replacing it with autarchy and treating it as constitutional reform. If we really want to follow an example, we can take what has happened in Iceland, a small nation that has emerged from a period of deep economic crisis and strong debt exposure giving back to the people the sacred right to participate actively in the political life of their country. Let me give you an example by reading directly a press article published in October 2012 that says: At the polls to say yes to Constitution 2.0. To an unprecedented experiment of direct democracy, started a year ago and now arrived at the moment of truth. Two years ago, therefore, such a thing was already planned in Iceland, which was then carried out. Continue the article: On 20 October 2012, just over 230,000 Icelandic inhabitants were asked to approve or not to approve six questions relating to the new Constitutional Charter drawn up in July 2011 by 25 citizens with the help of open consultations via the web, through social networks and Youtube. From citizens to citizens. A charter literally written by citizens for citizens and drawn up by members of the constituent Commission, chosen by ordinary voters, but forged not without receiving input and corrections from the network. A little what we do with the electoral law, nothing more, nothing less. Only 230,000 citizens of good will were enough. The text, in summer 2011, had been handed over to the local Parliament which, in turn, had opted for a popular referendum to obtain an indicative (and non-binding) ok to the draft. Referendum which on 20 October, from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., led to the elections of the Icelandic population. Many important subjects are the subject of the vote: from the status of the Church of the Country, to the possibility of holding referendums on a popular initiative, from the ownership of natural resources to the methods of election and ballot. So it's not difficult, and we could try it, too. Continuing with the explanation of the amendment, we propose changing a eligibility requirement: basically, the age for being elected Members is reduced from 25 to 21 years. We do not need a fortune teller to understand what it takes to get old this country and we are not the only ones to ask: already in 1996 a bill was presented to reduce the age requirement for the active electorate of the Senate and, if this requirement came to be manifested already in 1996 for the active electorate, we feel it even more for the passive electorate. It is now clear that a slice of representation is primarily for young people, because the laws of the future also contain their needs, their demands and their thoughts. The lowering of the age limit to be elected in Parliament is the main way to enhance the participation of young people in the life of the nation. Giving them space would be responsible for political life, finally giving them the opportunity that is systematically denied. Staying in your country would also be an opportunity. The young Italian promises that become excellencies abroad - unfortunately abroad - it is right that they remain in Italy and that they are not forced to flee in desperation for the search for a decent job that in Italy they would not have or do not have. In the end, it is simply a question of recognition of merit and competence. It's nothing like that. To see, therefore, from a careful analysis, regarding the aims of rationalization donated by Renzi, there is nothing rational. Only a heap of rules that end up sinking even more the economy and efficiency of the country system and institutional symmetries. And while with the related work they are precarious entire generations forcing them to inedia, while the small enterprises close, crushed by the weight of the taxes, while the children are asked flexibility and above all, instability, while forcing the families to pull the belt, Renzi prepares a place in the sun, with a reform that will assure him uncontrolled authority. And here it fits a phrase by Piero Calamandrei, whose currentity leaves almost astounded: "What is the Constitution for many of those who still sit in Italy at the posts of command has been expressed in phrases that deserve to pass to history: a "faccinduola," a "trap." What matters, for some people, is to remain in government, to preserve their privileges: everything else is literature. I am about to finish, Mr President, I need a few more seconds to finish my speech. Calamandrei argues: "The Constitution is a piece of paper: I let it fall and it doesn't move. In order to move, every day we have to put the fuel in, we have to put the commitment, the spirit, the will to keep these promises, the responsibility. This is why one of the insults to the Constitution is indifference to politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u206	Mr President, Government, when people do not write, if they do not annihilate like in a black hole, and perhaps someone is annihilated here, they often end up giving the numbers and because here, hypocrisy aside, no one has an unnatural vocation to self-annunciation, much less to martyrdom, because we do not see the ethical end of the counter-reform, then let us give them numbers, and maybe not in negative meaning, we try instead to draw the reason for clarity and objectivity. On the other hand, to solve a complex problem, it is useful to break it down into simpler parts, perhaps healing them and recomposing them later. The Pythagorics said: "The number is the principle" and, even if they have not experienced the numbers of Parliament, the Members, the senators, and the costs, they can give us useful suggestions, because they had well understood that all entities have their own measurableness, so anything can be somehow translated into something obvious, understandable, objective. The same thinking, simplifying, is nothing more than making calculations, as the various thinkers Hobbes, Hume, Spinoza and many others who have applied the methods of mathematical reasoning, unfortunately for us who have not followed the example, ethics and politics. In vain, because today we are unaccustomed to reason, finding more comfortable and responsive to the times selfies and tweets, and the President of the Council docet. Instead, I believe that we should recover certain categories and a certain method and perhaps even a certain ethics. When I say that a frog is green, the green attribute to the frog substance, and when I say that a frog is not green, I subtract the green attribute to the frog substance. When I say that the legislative power belongs to Parliament, not to the Government, but to Parliament, and if I say that the people are sovereign, this does not mean that it is the equivalence of President Renzi, plus Minister Boschi equals Parliament, equal representation of all. But we have left out the positivist theories of verifiability bearers of certainties to become all popperians and "fallibilisti" (fallibilisti in the broadest sense of the meaning of the term, given the country's failing situation) and the way to find the research through a progressive elimination of errors is long. The more wrong one is, the more new theories and therefore new laws are elaborated, which are punctually fallacious and all the more we deceive ourselves to limit the horizon of truth in the sense, however, not of a progressive, evolutionary and popperian elimination of errors and indirect acquisition of certainties, but of total irresponsibility and running in the mists. And we see the example on time every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we don't figure it out. Like a comedian said, we talk but we don't understand each other, and I'm not talking about Grillo. For years, citizens and public opinion have been calling for more streamlined and agile institutions, including to reduce the cost of politics and, when it comes to costs, the issue is always about numbers, so attention is also paid to the number of Members of Parliament. Half-life has been mentioned several times. That's what Bersani, Berlusconi, Monti, Confindustria, all said. Likes the slogan of half-life, sounds good, like a million jobs and as the 80 euros more in paycheck. Let us say then that the Italian Parliament spends about 1.5 billion euros every year: much, but little compared to the total, direct and indirect costs of politics, estimated at around 25 billion euros per year. To them we add as many, and even more, for the participating companies, that would all be to be put up for sale. But even to sell them to one euro each, no one would buy them, given how much it would take to heal them from the accumulated deficit. Comparing the expenditure of the Italian Parliament to those of its English and French counterparts, which have a similar number of members, it can be seen how Italy leads the ranking with a clear posting. The French Parliament, with almost the same number of members, is able to spend about half of the Italian one; while the English Parliament, although much more crowded, employs only 40% of the resources than the Italian one. On a per capita basis, every Italian citizen, including newborns and ultracentenarians, pays an average of 26 euros a year to maintain his Parliament, against the 13 euros of the French and 10 euros of the British. The Italian Parliament has 945 Members: 630 Members and 315 Senators. Comparing the size of the Italian Parliament with those of the other countries, it is seen that this average is 30% larger. In the United States there are 535 MPs: 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate. Yet, it is a nation six times more populous than Italy and with a territory of great length extended. The largest democracy in the world, India, a country of over a billion inhabitants, has 797 parliamentarians: almost 150 less than Italy. The reform text of the Boschi-Renzi government leaves unchanged the number of MPs, which would therefore remain 630. With this amendment we propose to reduce the number of deputies by half, bringing the House to have a number of members equal to that of the present Senate, i.e. 315. At present, every Member of Parliament in Italy represents nearly 64,000 people, practically one city like Carrara or Fano; in the United Kingdom, a Member of Parliament represents about 46,000 inhabitants, such as Frosinone or Mantua about; in France, one per 71,000 inhabitants, almost as much as L'Aquila; in Spain as Caserta; in Germany as the city of Bergamo, that is, one to 118,000 inhabitants. If by hypothesis we reduced the number of parliamentarians to a total of 630 (315 in the Senate kept elected and 315 in the House), as this amendment proposes, each parliamentarians would represent about 95,000 inhabitants. It is more than a reasonable number lower than that of Germany: as if we passed from representing a city like Carrara to a like Pesaro. As proof of this, I recall that the debate of the constituent Assembly on this subject was an exemplary linearity. The drafting committee had presented a wording of Rule 56 to the House, setting out how reasonable it is for a number of Members representing a population of between 50 000 and 100 000. Half the number of Members therefore, leaving the number of senators unchanged, would not affect the representativeness, which would indeed be in line with what was expressed in the constituent Assembly. On the contrary, it would have a positive impact on costs, since we would have a reduction in allowances, reimbursements and pensions, a total number of Members of Parliament of 100 less than the Renzi-Boschi text, saving much more than the Renzi-Boschi duo proposes. The balance in the composition of the Chamber and Senate, above all, would improve the work in the bicameral commissions, as well as contribute to balancing and balancing the composition of the Parliament in common sitting, when it elects the guarantee bodies, in particular the Head of State. I shall conclude, Mr President. Only the much praised - only in words, of course - truth on the part of Minister Boschi can have the title to judge this counter-reform, but only blind and unreasonable love could justify the ruin that this Government prepares for our Constitution. A Parliament that represents the citizens and their urgent problems cannot afford not to use that reason to try to do the right things, and certainly unconditional love must be reserved, not to this Government and its proposals, but to the country and its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u207	Mr President, I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 1.0.5 to Senator Crimi's first signature, and then to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u208	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u209	GIARRUSSO (M5S). This amendment proposes an amendment to Article 56 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is six hundred and thirty, twelve of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. All voters who were twenty-five years of age on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The division of seats between the districts, without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by six hundred and eighteen and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. Amendment 1.0.5 proposes replacing Article 56 of the Constitution by the following: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is four hundred. All voters who were twenty-one years old on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The distribution of the seats between the districts is made by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by four hundred distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each district, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment tabled by the members of our Group, members of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and signed by us, we want to reiterate that the 5 Star Movement is for reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, it is not essential to hold a meeting in the Chamber with the back of the Presidency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The same applies to colleagues in your Group who are struggling with their neighbours. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). The 5 Star Movement, unlike what read in the newspapers and repeated as a mantra by all the servants of this power, is for constitutional reforms; it is simply opposed to revolutionary reforms, to counter-reforms. Therefore, we are in favour of a reduction of the parliamentarians, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, because with almost 1,000 members we are the European country with the most other number of parliamentarians compared to the population. This is a fact which, consistently, the citizens ask of us. Not only that, but it is consistent with our own demand for a reduction in emoluments, reimbursements for each Member of Parliament and the elimination of public funding for parties. This is a reform of representation, which brings the electorate closer to the electorate, maintaining and strengthening the link of which the Constitution speaks. Direct suffrage implies a link between the electorate and the elected. Any kind of privilege or any kind of filter, which is placed between the voters and those who represent them in Parliament, which in our opinion should be the spokesmen, turns the Italian people away from those who should be their representatives. Instead, the reform that is being discussed in this House, proposed by the majority and Renzi, further alienates voters from the elected ones, who will no longer be in a position to determine who will be elected to the Senate, if this evil constitutional reform comes into force. When they were called to elect their regional councillors, the voters did not know that later some of them would become senators: in that case they could vote differently. It is an election not only of second degree, but even of third degree, because without even the preferences, even such election is determined by the secretariats of the parties, who will decide who must enter the Senate. Then you will have an even more appointed Senate. We have an electoral reform that runs counter to the dictation of the Constitutional Court, which, by sanctioning the electoral law, has shown that the lack of preferences and blocked lists have led to an illegality of the norm, due to the lack of the relationship between the elect and the elector. There is also a violation of the freedom to vote, because the vote must be equal, free and secret, but with the blocked lists there is a violation of these principles, because the citizen is faced with the choice between exercising or not exercising the vote, but does not have the power of choice among the various elected. He either takes what he finds on the blocked lists or simply doesn't vote. This was the view that the Constitutional Court has determined the illegality of a part of the norm, which we have all called Porcellum for many years. So we basically have a reposition of the same violations of the Constitution, which have led to the constitutional illegitimacy of Porcellum, even in the same composition as the Senate. The other fundamental element that I want to highlight is the imbalance of powers. A reduction of the parliamentarians of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, while maintaining the current proportions, would allow to maintain the balance between the different powers that so far, for over 60 years, have allowed our Republic to survive even very sad periods. In this House there are parliamentarians who have experienced terrible seasons of our country. It should be remembered: it is the seasons of terrorism, of massacres, the period that has been called the night of the Republic. Well, our country, thanks to our Constitution and the fact that the various powers (the executive, the legislative and the judicial) did not have the ability to overpower each other, remaining in balance, has overcome moments of serious crisis. At this moment, we unbalance our parliamentary system, which is not an anomaly, as the President of the Republic said today, but is a balanced system, while an anomaly is a President of the Republic who, according to the Constitutional Charter, should defend the Constitution and not attack it as he did today, saying that it is an anomaly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Already in December we had expressed our position on a President who is now outside the womb of the Constitution, who overflows his mandate by expressing positions that do not compete for even ridiculous reasons, linking constitutional reform to the economic crisis. A politician - not a President of the Republic - is not credible to support these things at this time. Constitutional reform has nothing to do with this country's economic crisis; it has to do with the political crisis. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Constitutional reform has to do with the political crisis and, unfortunately, this constitutional reform is the wrong response of sick politics. This will be understood by the citizens in the coming months. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u210	Mr President, I will present the amendment 1.0.100 that I have signed, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Crimes. This amendment aims to supplement Article 56 of the Constitution. I think it's good to frame exactly what we're talking about. I would remind you briefly that Rule 56 deals with the election of the Chamber of Deputies, providing that it is elected by universal suffrage. The same article determines the number of members, currently in 630, 12 of whom are elected in the foreign constituency, as well as the lower age limit for eligibility as a Member. The article also calculates the distribution of seats between the various districts. The amendment that we have proposed provides for an addition to Article 56, with the introduction of an additional paragraph that states that - I read it - they cannot be candidates and cannot in any case hold the office of Member those who have been sentenced by a final sentence for non-injury crime or with a prison sentence of more than 10 months and 20 days of imprisonment for manslaughter. Let us take a good look at the initiative we have tried to make by proposing this amendment. As my colleague Mr Giarrusso said, these reforms are not, in our opinion, part of a prospective plan, of a true plan of reform for a modern state, but it is simply a propaganda response, so to speak electoral, to the advent of a political force like the 5 Star Movement. For this reason the result can only be a quick and quick response, as fast and fast was our advent. We have, however, understood from the outset that this proposal was absolutely weird and meaningless. Why do I say that? Because it was not the result of participation, but of a logic behind this reform, and we understand this also from the need that we had to introduce this paragraph. It is clear that the crisis that we are experiencing these days - mainly economic crisis - is obviously also the result of a profound and dramatic crisis of the political representation of this country, therefore of a physiological crisis of the party system. As I have already said in general debate, we citizens have in fact been forced to enter the institutions precisely because nobody at this time - but for years now - represented more the demands of the simple citizens. With this amendment we have been forced to forcefully introduce certain principles which should instead be innate in the exponent of a movement or a party that has the vocation to represent the demands of the citizens. They are simply principles of logic, common sense and above all morality. Why do I say that? I say this because, with this paragraph, we want to introduce certain principles that guarantee non-eligibility, defining the precise characteristics that the candidates must have in the elections, in particular for the House of Deputies, in order to be eligible, establishing when they cannot be. Unfortunately we have been forced to introduce this paragraph and we are forced to repeat it every time, precisely because the current political class has not been able to accept these simple indications and these simple principles. And it seems absurd that in a modern or reformist state, as we all love to say, there is the need to introduce these constraints, which should instead be the fundamental prerequisite for a person to be present at the elections, that is, a person of mirrored morality. In this case, we are introducing non-eligibility for sentenced persons with final judgment. (The representative of the Government is not present in the Chamber). May I request the presence of the government while I speak?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u211	You're right, Senator Lucidi. The representative of the Government should be present. We sent our collaborators to look for him; he seems to be in the Pannini Room. However, I have seen many representatives of the government before. However, the government must be there, so, until the government is there, let's not resume the discussion. (The Undersecretary Pizzetti enters the Chamber). The government representative has arrived. Please, Senator Lucidi, you can continue. LUCIDES (M5S). I'd have to start over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Lucidi. You had your good reasons, but now continue; let's be serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u212	I said we were forced to introduce these specifications. In this particular case, what we are trying to prevent is that people are elected who have been convicted of crimes of the kind: extortion, theft, fraud, concussion, flaw, fraudulent bankruptcy, criminal association. Already simply listing these cases gives rise to the chills or, at least, to me personally it gives the creeps to think that, in a modern state, there is a need for a law that prevents the candidacy of such characters. In particular, we have been forced to introduce this paragraph also in order to overcome the current Severino law, which, we know, provides for a limit of two years of imprisonment; it also provides for the cancellation from the lists and the condition of incandidability following (which we have also used in this House). A sentence of more than two years' imprisonment is required. Why is this important? Because we know, from various studies, that one of the problems of the current economic crisis and, above all, one of the physiological problems of our state is that of corruption. So it is clear that admitting that a politician who is not morally mirrored can be a candidate is a sign of strong corruption. Let's read some data if any of us don't remember. Studies by the European Union and the OECD show that there is a turnover of EUR 60 billion, which is about 3.8 percent of GDP. This plunges Italy to become the third most corrupt OECD country, with a corruption perceptions index (CPI) score of 6.1. We come immediately after Mexico and Greece; and surely, with all respect for these countries, it is not a ranking to which we must aspire. But the real problem behind this amendment is another. In fact, there would be absolutely no need for a constitutional change in order to prevent such people from being able to present themselves to the elections. We in the 5 Star Movement, as we have done so many times before, have solved this problem simply with good behavior practices. How did we do it? Well, gentlemen, you all know - and, if you do not know, I would like to remind you - that, when choosing our lists and applications, all activists and those entitled to be candidates for the 5 Star Movement have chosen to present, as proof of our mirrored morality, a criminal certificate. We go to the criminal record and we get our criminal certificate issued in which for myself and for all my colleagues there was and it still says: Nothing. In addition to this, we have also added the certificate of pending loads just to add more force and say that nothing will happen during the course of work (at least until now). I conclude by stressing the importance of this amendment, which is fundamental to us. It starts right at the root of our candidacy and, therefore, part even before our advent in these Palazzi; already before being elected in 2013 we had placed such a bond. I would like to respond to Mr Boschi who said yesterday that lies are not allowed in politics. We are probably the answer to years of lies; perhaps the amendment before us means that we are the answer to this period of lies and, therefore, that statement is not true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, your time is over. Just finish the sentence. LUCIDES (M5S). I conclude by stressing that the statement by Minister Boschi reminds me of the famous paradox of Epimenides of Crete, known as the paradox of the liar, who says: dear gentlemen, I am Cretan and say that all Cretans lie. This is a bit what Minister Boschi said yesterday, remixing the paradox of the Cretans. We will therefore call it the paradox of the Florentines. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u213	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.0.17 (to which I have already signed) tabled in Article 1-a, which calls for the age to be lowered to be elected to 18-year-old Members. The criticism that can come almost naturally would be that at the age of 18 you are probably too young and that most teenagers and 18-year-olds, tell lies, climb on mirrors for not having performed the tasks or maybe to have returned home too late; therefore, you can well climb up to find excuses in front of your parents. At this point, however, I have a reflection: why should we not make the same remarks to our Premier? Yesterday we heard Mr Boschi mention Fanfani when he said that in politics lies are useless. This is what we have always supported since young Renzi was suspected of being shot at the expense of former Prime Minister Letta when he tweeted: Enrico, stay calm. In fact, then he showed up! Afterwards we started with announcements and propaganda: the Senate costs 1 billion, but it costs half. All right, it must be remembered that Fanfani also said that if one is a bully, it is a bully even at twenty years of age and so it is at 39 years of age! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We went a little further and said that we would do a reform a month: in February the electoral law, the amendment of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution; in March the jobs act, the universal cheque. Afterwards the numbers were fired on the economy: from the spending review 7 billion in 2014, but there is not yet a piece of measure. Moreover, from the decrease of the spread the young Renzi wanted to recover well 3 billion. He had failed to study what little it takes - for which the parents insist with the eighteen - because he did not know that instead we must recover and we must observe the medium-term objective. He claimed that those 3 billion are available. By the way, he didn't even say they're nominal, but they're real, because with zero inflation they won't be even 3 billion, but that would be a little too complicated for Renzi. At least it could be saved to say that they were there, at his disposal as if he had a small piggy bank. Then came the 80 euros. He clearly failed to say that there are already new taxes and that at least EUR 25 billion will have to be recovered by this year. But this is not said to the Italians! It says to the Italian televisions that we are ready to go to Europe to beat our fists. Renzi went there to beat his fists and punched him in the face [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and they told him: you can do whatever you want, but within the framework of the treaties that signed those that have now become your soldiers and that have always been soldiers of the condemned Silvio Berlusconi. Whatever left morals say, they have always and only supported him and, therefore, have always been only accomplices. There is no point in them telling us that we do not want reforms! Why else? Because it is supported on television, always lying (we always remember Fanfani who said that lies in politics are useless), what Europe asks us to do. But what are the reforms that Europe is asking of us? We should ask Senator Finocchiaro, Senator Zanda who goes on television to say: the 5 Star Movement wants to obstruct the good of the country... FINOCCHIAR (PD). Never said that. Never said that. It's a lie. Mr Lezzi (M5S). ...because the abolition of freedom, the abolition of the principles of democracy are never explained on the merits, even by the rapporteurs. It is said that it is true that we have increased signatures, but we will make the regulation. No! The ratio that has led you to prevent democracy has not been explained, has not been related and Minister Boschi, an accomplice of the rapporteurs, did not even yesterday know how to do so because he is probably unable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Their only presumption is to go into history books to read about the Boschi-Renzi reform. Everything else falls apart. Berlusconi's the boss here. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]] What, then, is Europe asking for? Because to Italians you should have the intellectual honesty to say. If only you had true respect for institutions, you should say, for example, that it asks us to ensure a lasting improvement in the efficiency and quality of public spending, while you continue to make trade marks! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To assess, moreover, the effectiveness of the recent reduction in the tax wedge; to implement the law of delegation on tax reforms; to modernise the tax administration, to persevere in the fight against tax evasion. Clearly, it must be pointed out here that small and micro-enterprises escape between 7% and 8% in order to defend themselves. Everything else, with the good placid of the two rooms (very fast in this!), it is done by the Mafia and corruption, the great multinationals, the lords of the Democratic Party. Yes, the mob! And do not be indignant because you make it easier. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] After that, with regard to public administration, better management of EU funds must be ensured. [[Comments of Senators Cirinna and Cociancich]] especially in the Mezzogiorno regions. Then further enhance the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures, in particular by reviewing the Institute of Prescription by the end of 2014, as the 5 Star Movement, together with Europe, begs you to do! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Monitor the effects of the reforms adopted to increase the efficiency of civil justice. These are the reforms Europe is asking for! Either you're ignorant or you're in bad faith! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But the most beautiful part that Europe asks of us, because Europe is not just tears and blood... EXPOSED Stefano (PD). But weren't you against Europe? Mr Lezzi (M5S). Yes, I want to reply to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because just the other day they tacitally and quickly adopted an amendment in the Budget Committee proposed, imposed by Forza Italia that eliminated cash in the fruit and vegetable markets despite the various reports of the anti-mafia. Why don't you remove the POS requirement for craftsmen for 30 euros? This means facilitating the mob and being an accomplice to it. [[Comments of Senators Favero and Zanoni.]] Otherwise remove the limit of 1,000 euros for everyone and not only where there are reports from the anti-mafia. You did it in two nanoseconds: it was presented by Forza Italia and you didn't say a single word. Shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Afterwards you also distanced yourself from Di Matteo and then go whining to Borsellino. Mediocre, this is you! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] I have the right to speak, respect the institutions! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, now you're speaking more calmly. I understand that these are interventions to attract attention, but don't exaggerate. Europe is asking us to work towards full social protection for the unemployed, but limiting the use of the Integration Fund gains to facilitate the redeployment of labour; strengthening the coordination and efficiency of public employment services; increasing the female employment rate; gradually extending the pilot social assistance scheme, ensuring targeted allocation, strict conditionality and uniform application throughout the territory; improving the effectiveness of family support schemes and the quality of services for households. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But what amendment is this, excuse me? Mr Lezzi (M5S). I said that before, and she was probably distracted. I also gave you the right connection and consistency. If you want to repeat the whole surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should just explain an amendment. You are presenting a comprehensive programme. Mr Lezzi (M5S). You've taken 50 seconds from me and I'll take it back if you want. Let me finish talking. The lie, which is not typical of the eighteen-year-old (because Fanfani said, as I have already mentioned, that if one is a bully it always is at all ages), is typical of this Government and this Parliament, which does not have the courage, the authority and the seriousness to tell the truth to the Italians. You'll regret it! I am sure that the Italians will open their eyes when in the next law of stability, which will be among the most restrictive in the last twenty years, you will give only tears and blood. That is the truth you should tell. That's why for us there is no foreclosure that even a teenager, a 15-year-old, can come in here: it would definitely do better. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u214	Mr President, I would like to outline and endorse Amendment 1.0.95, which was first signed by Senator Crimi. Like many of my colleagues, I find it very difficult to be here to talk about constitutional reforms. This is for the benefit of those who follow us on TV, on the radio, streaming. 20.28 (Followed by Mr Girotto). I am in a lot of trouble, I said, because we are in the presence of a Parliament elected with a system determined by a law declared highly illegitimate by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore a Parliament which is able to function, but which should confine itself to carrying out ordinary administrative operations, as the Constitutional Court has suggested, waiting to return to the polls as soon as possible. I repeat, we are in the presence of a formally legitimate Parliament, but the Constitutional Court has suggested that morally, in a broad sense, it is not. And the Italians would expect to return to the polls to have a Parliament again and fully legitimized. Instead, we are talking about reforming our basic Law. Having made it very uncomfortable to reform our law with a Parliament that is not morally legitimate, I will describe our amendment: In the third paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution, the word "twenty-five" is replaced by the following: "twenty-one." It is well known that the Constitutional Assembly, in an attempt to identify some distinctive elements between the House and the Senate, after the proposals for the establishment of a Chamber of Regions or a Chamber of representatives of the categories had been abandoned, introduced elements suitable for diversifying the composition of the two Assemblies, as far as age is concerned. In view of the creation of a system in which one of the two Chambers would perform, as the case may be, the function of cooling chamber in the legislative process by amending and rejecting the proposals voted by the other Chamber, the idea of conceiving the Senate as a chamber of seniors, in the Latin sense of the term, that is, of older people and, presumably, with more experience. At the same time, it was assumed that it was not prudent to allow access to the House to persons who had just acquired the right to vote. To the objections of those who intended to equate active and passive electorate, it was replied that there was also a differentiation in other countries. The facts have been charged with largely denying the two ideas that the difference of electorate could really differentiate the two chambers and that seniority produced a better result. Provided that it is possible to evaluate the experience, it does not seem that it can say that in 60 years of Republic the Senate has expressed ideas or proposals more mature or aware than the House. Also because its composition has always been the result of electoral laws with almost coincident results between the two Assemblies (Porcellum separately). Therefore, the differentiations in the active electorate were insufficient to differentiate between the two Assemblies in terms of the distribution of seats between different parties, also canceling the differentiation for the passive electorate. At the same time, who could say that a chamber of over 25 years has produced particularly brilliant results? Hence today's idea of lowering the minimum age for eligibility to the only House that would remain elective, albeit with an electoral system that promises to be extremely negative and detrimental to citizens. In a Senate that will most likely be composed of people forward over the years, because it will be elections of subjects who already hold a post, it is useful to try to configure the House as representative as possible of the people, not ignoring the younger age group. In this sense, the lowering to 21 years of age in order to be elected seems to us a fair compromise between the status quo, with the anachronistic reference to the 25 years, and an access to the eighteen-year-olds, that perhaps could prevent the acquisition of a minimum experience for the performance of public office. Now, as I said, I am in great difficulty talking about such extensive reforms when the Italians, the citizens out there, are waiting for answers to the problem of employment, which is the main problem. So I find it very difficult to maintain a reasonable tone to the dignity of this House when, in my Commission, proposals that could create hundreds of thousands of jobs have just been rejected for the umpteenth time. And I don't say that, but all the associations. I am referring to the stabilisation of the ecobonus by 2020, a manoeuvre that the Senate had failed on 3 June last year. The House had then restored its commitment to introducing stabilisation by means of the law of stability. Now, we have only stabilized this measure for two years and all trade associations believe that hundreds of thousands of jobs could be created if we stabilised it until 2020. These are the answers that Italians expect: to have jobs. I repeat once again that the proposal to stabilize until 2020 has been rejected. So, what are we talking about? Similarly, the proposal to set up a fund to encourage proposals for building efficiency has been rejected. Here again, therefore, there was talk of about EUR 50 million, the amount that we should save with this reform regarding the Senate. And here too the amendment proposing this solution has been rejected. I turn to the Italians, who listen to us on radio, television and the Internet: know that, while we are adopting constitutional reforms, these proposals, which would create in a few weeks and in a few months hundreds of thousands of jobs, are rejected in total silence. In the same way, the other pillar of our national energy strategy is also strongly hampered. In fact, I remind Italians that this strategy is always based on two pylons: energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Well, we are dealing in the Commission with yet another sinking of the renewables chain, which had been one of the very few that had managed to resist and to be countertrend after the 2008 crisis, one of the very few that had created tens of thousands of jobs. We have already managed to put it down for good and now we are completing the work with yet another competition decree, which will introduce additional burdens that will make thousands of companies fail again. While politics continues to repeat that renewable sources are strategic, they are essential, they are the future of our civilization, on the other hand, in fact, we are going to depress them and eliminate tens of thousands of jobs, obstructing us more and more the way towards what will be the international orders that are opening up abroad. I give a single number, always for the benefit of those who listen to us: 100 billion euros are the orders that the Arab Emirates alone have in the renewable sector. EUR 100 billion. Well, we have sunk down our chain, which was an excellence, and we will leave, therefore, this very rich dish to the Chinese, American, German, French, Spanish industries, who present themselves at the tables of these international negotiations accompanied by the Prime Ministers, by leading politicians, while our trade associations, of those who really work while we are here to discuss, are always alone, always isolated. In December last year there was a conference of the hydrogen supply chain, which is another piece of the future, which is also a piece of the present, because hydrogen is already a piece of the present for the national industries. He was invited throughout the parliamentary arc and there was only one Member present. I'll let you guess who. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. GIROTTO (M5S). To this Member the entrepreneurs said dismayed: Senator, we have to decide whether to stay in Italy, where bureaucracy stifles us, or go to Brazil, where there are golden bridges to go to work. We should think about returning work to Italy and not talking about these reforms, which citizens sincerely do not care about. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u215	Madam President, I am going to explain amendment 1.0.104, which contains the following wording: The following shall be inserted after the third paragraph of Article 56: "Those who have twice held the office of a Member of Parliament may not be candidates for the post of Member of Parliament." With this amendment, my group wanted to limit the position of Member for two terms, on the basis of what we have always said. On this point, I would like a broader analysis to be made first, which stems from the reason underlying the law currently governing the figure of the mayors and presidents of the Provinces. In this regard, I would point out that the institute of direct election of the mayor and the president of the Province was introduced into our system, for the first time, by Law No 81 of 25 March 1993, in the framework of the more general electoral reform implemented, on several occasions, by the XI and XII legislatures, which saw the transformation, as well as the system of election of local authorities, also that of Parliament and the Regions. The law provided for, inter alia, in Article 2, a reduction in the term of office from five years to four years, as well as a ban on covering more than two mandates. It has been said that the legislator, in reforming the system of election of the mayor and the president of the Province, had been inspired by that of the U.S. presidential system, with the conferral of a mandate of strong legitimacy and vast powers to a subject that was not to become attached to the power, but rather was stimulated to do quickly and well. Hence, the limit of mandates, envisaged in order to favour the replacement at the top of the local government and to avoid the customization of the use of power, in order to break the personal ties between voters and elected. And this, as the parliamentary documents show, is done to replace the personality of the command with the impersonality of it and avoid clientelism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Further reason for the ban is to prevent the mayor, at the end of a double consecutive term of office, from taking advantage of a more incisive advantage, in order to achieve the post again, of the same person repeatedly elected as mayor, however, remaining in that same position during the election process. This is what the Civil Cassation, Section I, stated on 5 June 2007, in the judgment n. 13181. However, Article 2 of Law No 81 of 1993 was immediately called into question, in its entirety, by many local administrators who were concerned to see themselves preclude the continuity of the administrative action of local authorities directed by them, some of which traditionally managed, even for decades, by the same people. The urgent requests to amend this rule were partially met by Law No 120 of 30 April 1999, which contained in Article 7 the term of office of five years. The new rule - it is not difficult to understand - was aimed at obtaining the satisfaction of those who demanded the prediction of the third consecutive mandate, because, without reaching so much (and, that is, a total mandate of twelve years), allowed the administrators to extend the total duration of their mandates for a further two years (from eight to ten years). In the same direction, Law No 120 of 1999 allowed for a third consecutive term of office if it lasted less than two years, six months and one day of one of the previous two mandates, for reasons other than voluntary resignation. Nevertheless, attempts to legally repeal the prohibition of the third mandate, or at least to mitigate it, have continued over time, also following the inclusion of the provision in the new Single Text of Local Authorities, adopted by Legislative Decree no. 267 of 18 August 2000, in article 51, paragraph 2. But the major parties of our constitutional system, which have now recovered from the so-called crisis of the first Republic, were opposed to renewing the rule by preferring, rather, a return to the old ante-1993 system. In practice, this was the cause of the failure and final approval of a bill that provided for the elimination of the prohibition of the third mandate for the mayors of municipalities with population up to 3,000 inhabitants, who also, in March 2004, had passed the scrutiny of the Senate with a very large majority. The circumstance of the passing to the Senate of the bill (along with the publication of the judgment n. 1485 of 6 November 2003 of the TAR Campania-Salerno, which had defined the cause of ineligibility and not of incandidability the third consecutive term) provided the starting point for some mayors, who in that year were finishing their second term, to apply for a third office. The result of the local elections of 12-13 June 2004 saw only one mayor elected to the third term, that of Salerano Canavese, a village in the province of Turin of 532 inhabitants. The principle of limitation of the mandates referred to in Article 51, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 267 of 2000 is inserted in a complex system of norms (some for a long time, others subsequently intervened) concerning the powers of the City Council and the competences of the prefects and the Ministry of the Interior, as holders of the function of control over the organs. First of all, we must clear ourselves of a recurring misunderstanding. The prohibition of the third mandate must be classified as cause of ineligibility and not as cause of incandidability and the sanction to be imposed in case of violation is that typical for the causes of ineligibility: the decadence from the office, with all the consequences provided for by the law, dissolution of the elective organs and custody of the administration of the agency to the deputy mayor and the Junta until the first useful electoral round. However, with this amendment, we have already pointed out in the section that Members should not be candidates if they have already held the office of a Member of Parliament twice. In fact, the 5 Star Movement has tabled amendments to the bill on constitutional reforms to introduce not only the limit of two mandates, but also amendments relating to the incompatibility of the condemned. These amendments stem from our idea of a clean Parliament. For us, who is elected to the 5 Star Movement knows that after two mandates he will have to return to his work, he will have to return to the real world, and it is this small but substantial difference that makes his whole future vision change. For this reason, if the limit of the two mandates were applied by law to all Italian politicians, and not only as an internal rule of the 5 Star Movement, this would radically and for the better change Italian politics. I should like to conclude by saying that our amendment is based on the idea that the political class needs to grow old in order to avoid that intertwine with the social fabric that is often the cause of corruption. There are no few examples to mention, but I trust in voting in favour of this amending proposal to dispel any doubts about possible involvement or subtle connivance with those who make politics not a service for the community, but a profit for their personal interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u216	Madam President, I too wish to endorse two amendments tabled by other groups: 1.61 and 1.0.15. Amendment 1.61, which I am going to explain, aims to reduce the number of Members and includes three aspects. The first reduces the number, set out in Article 56 of the Constitution, of the honourable Members, from 630, of which 12 are elected in the foreign college, to 320. There has been a great deal of discussion about the issue and there are various interpretations, so I will not dwell on it any longer, but it is important to remember that, by reducing this number to 320 Members, it is reported within the limits of all other European countries. It is also important to maintain the relationship between MPs and senators of two to one, also because we can see, as Mr Mussini has already explained, how the numbers of participants in the debate in the House actually fit very well within this range. It is also important to maintain the quantitative relationship of honorable senators in relation to the election of the various institutional positions, and among them the President of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, otherwise one class might prevail over the other. It is also necessary to maintain a number of parliamentarians, otherwise they would not represent the whole country. In fact, if the number is too small, this would lead to a lack of representativeness; so if Members are reduced to around 320, even within the Commission, the same relationship that we have today in the Senate of 22-23 people per Commission would be maintained. Furthermore, it would be important to safeguard gender equality and linguistic minorities in the Constitution, not in the case of this amendment, but in the case of others that have already been discussed. Other Members have already pointed out how other aspects such as, for example, clean Parliament could be introduced into the Constitution. But our dear old Constitution, in Article 54, already says that: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. They are two very beautiful words with a very high meaning. So even if you want to be redundant and want to point out more than you have to, instead of having a Constitution of the small ones, like the one I hold and that you can always carry with you, you will get to have a gigantic tome, distorting its characteristic. 20.49 (Following GAETTI). Another point that I would like to quickly analyse is cost containment. By making a quick calculation, with 15,000 euros per month for twelve months for 300 employees, we would have a saving of 54 million; by adding the expenses of the Groups, of the rentals of the studies and whatever else, we could estimate a saving of 80 million. It is certainly an important saving and I believe it corresponds to the cost of an F-35. In my opinion, we can also think of saving money in another way, eliminating the expenditure of an F-35 per year to keep the speech of democracy as we are considering. I think this is a fact that should make us think. Another point that I would like you to explain to me, because I really do not get it, is the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament to increase productivity. Since I've been in the Senate for about a year and four months, I've had to assess four measures on Ilva and a number of them on the IMU. Perhaps this productivity is not particularly adequate and beautiful; perhaps a measure done well, and therefore thought more carefully, was enough to save everyone time and money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Explain this to me, then, this productivity. We have a Minister for Simplification. It is said that there are 390,000 laws in Italy; many have been removed and a beautiful bonfire has also been made. But we obviously hope that there will be a House and a Senate that produce a lot of laws. Of course, by introducing these amendments, paragraph 4 of Article 56 of the Constitution must also be changed. The other point that I would like to stress is point (b), with which it is proposed to change the age of the honourable Members. Today we must have 25 years at the time of the elections. The amendment aims to replace this age with the older one, which today corresponds to the 18 years. I think this is an important age, because it is with the youth age that the best developments and idealities are manifested. Especially a young man facing a very long future can understand innovations. Several scientific studies have shown that man always lives much longer, but more and more ill. I have already said this in this House but I repeat this: Eurostat has pointed out that if until 2004 a man lived in normal health until the age of seventy and then began to get sick and died at the age of eighty, today we live in good health until the age of sixty-one and we die at the age of eighty-two. This shows that it may be better to focus more on young people than on the elderly. I would also like to turn to Amendment 1.0.15 by Senator Bonfrisco and others, which I consider interesting. It proposes a number of Members - again under Rule 56, and therefore for the House of Members - varying in the number of people who are going to vote: if it votes 100% of those entitled, then we will have the 618 Members; if it goes to vote to a lesser extent, we will have a minimum threshold of 412. This is also interesting, because we give the possibility to those who do not believe in us, and therefore in this political class, not to go and vote and, by doing so, do not elect anyone. Of course, we need a minimum threshold that the proposers of this amendment have set in 412 Members, but we can also reduce it. The amendment then explains the mechanism of election. It appears to be an interesting argument that should be considered. The last question, which is marginal to this amendment, concerns the fact that we want to compare the future Senate with the Bundesrat. I would like to thank our collaborators of the Study Service who, among the fantastic dossiers they write to us, wrote a very nice one about the way the Bundesrat thinks and works, which I want to read: "The German Bundesrat" - which has 69 members - is divided into 16 Commissions. The fourth paragraph of Article 52 (GGG) - the Grundgesetz, i.e. their Rules of Procedure - explicitly states that representatives of the government of each Land other than the members of the Bundesrat may participate in the work of the Commissions as delegated commissioners. Each Land has one member (one vote) in each Commission. In general, the Land is represented by the heads of their respective governments in the Defence and Foreign Affairs Commissions, as Commissions considered eminently "political"; the Ministers responsible for the matter take part in the work of the other Commissions. The possibility of sending delegated Commissioners to the Commission is widely exploited, especially in discussions requiring specific technical expertise, to the point that it is not uncommon that as Commissioners only experienced officials of a given subject delegated by their respective governments participate in the work. It is therefore completely different from what has been said, and no one has ever stressed this passage in this House. So please do not compare the new Senate with the Bundesrat, because otherwise you look bad. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u217	Mr President, I have informed the Presidency of my desire to subscribe to all of Mr De Petris' amendments, and if you will allow me, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.62 because I believe that more than acceptable proposals are being made with it, and so I hope that the other Members can support it as well. The text of the constitutional reform by the Government, and subsequently amended by the Commission, has left unchanged the number of eligible Members of the House who - as I recall - consists of 618 Members for the Italian constituency and 12 Members for the foreign constituency. This increase, after the Second World War, was justified by the fact that the population had increased and consequently the audience of the representatives had to be expanded. According to this reasoning, which is mathematically acceptable, we could move to future increases, bringing the House to 750 or even 800 representatives. In this sense, the government's reform plan does not provide for any reduction, although it has flagged to unified networks the need to reduce costs; which the government would like to implement by means of a reduction exclusively of senators, who will decrease by 215 units. In order not to empty the Senate of the Republic of its prerogatives, which would certainly happen if the number of senators dropped to 100 and if all functions were to be removed until now, with this amendment we propose a reduction of the more balanced costs to be carried out by corresponding reduction of the number of Members of the House. The final number will be equal to that of the current senators; this will result in a greater reduction in cost, thus also meeting the wishes of the Government. In addition to the savings, of course, due to the lower number of Members, there would certainly be a great deal of savings for what the House's management costs are. In this regard I want to report the data of an IPSOS survey of 15 and 16 July of this year, from which it was found that only one in five Italians shares your bill, and with which is recorded a consensus of the citizens almost unanimous regarding the cut of the costs of the policy. If, then, you really want to do what the Italians are asking for, let us finally put in place a real policy of cuts, especially to the salaries of both Members of Parliament and those who work in Parliament. Let us return to the costs of the House of Deputies. Perhaps not everyone knows the figures, the numbers: well the salaries of the staff of the House amount annually to about 238 million euros. Which means that each person in charge of the Chamber, from the barber, to the driver, to the clerk and so on, has an average gross annual salary of about 150,000 euros, or 10,000 euros per month, for 15 months. We are representatives of a country where youth unemployment has reached around 43% and you, on the other hand, refuse to cut your salaries. Italians can starve, while you have the brazenness to say that 15,000 a month is not enough for you. After all, it would not be so complicated to do: we do it from the first day and we did not need a special law, in fact it is enough simply to make a transfer and return 50% of the allowance. We are still waiting, after fifteen months, for you to do the same. Minister Boschi - who is not there - and all of you colleagues, if you want to give a signal to the country, then start by putting your hands to your pockets. Return to the House's expenses, citing some other data that can make you reflect: 102,000 euros for wardrobe services; 100,000 euros for bindings; 1.8 million euros for removals and porters; 670,000 euros for language and computer training to Members. Not to mention the narcissistic waste of President Boldrini, as when he decided to change the look to his letterhead. Perhaps by someone who has dealt in the past with immigrants, poverty, serious hardships, we would have expected a little more care in spending public money. At least, President Boldrini, spare us pictures of the canteens of the poor, like those of Easter last year. So in just a few minutes we have shown that if the issue is cost reduction, we can achieve it in an immediate and effective way with small and simple modifications. No, you do not: you want to put your hand in the Senate to exclude it from all functions and prerogatives, concentrating in the House, and therefore in the hands of the majority, all legislative, executive and control powers. In any case, just to give you a reflection on the reduction of representatives in the Senate, I would like to point out that such an excessive reduction would inevitably compromise its efficiency. Senators could not, in fact, profitably ensure their constant presence in the work of the Commission and should therefore be entrusted to a more comprehensive technical staff, so that a corresponding increase in the financial allocations paid to each Group should be made. Et voilà! Costs rise again. Returning to what is proposed by the amendment, we propose the only numerical reduction of the elected in the House and therefore to bring the number from 630 (including 12 in the foreign constituency) to 320 (including 6 in the foreign districts). That is what is envisaged in the first part of the amendment. We come to the second part, in which it is proposed to lower the age in order to be elected to the Chamber of Deputies and precisely we ask to reduce it from twenty-five to twenty-one years. There may be various reasons for this: the spread of the mass media such as the Internet, the possibility of access to infinite data and information and of increasing their knowledge have led to a radical fall in the age of awareness. The main intention of this amendment is to promote the participation of young people in the political life of the country, thus guaranteeing a greater representativeness of the younger generations. Moreover, I personally do not understand why a 21-year-old could easily be elected President of a Region and not at the same time have the qualifications to be elected as a member of the National Parliament. The third and last part of the amendment is a formal amendment to adapt it to the new composition of the Chamber of Deputies, which had to proceed mathematically to the division of the number of voters (as it appears from the last census) for the number of representatives that it is intended to elect. In conclusion, I would like to re-launch my colleague Vito Crimi's proposal, with which we call for an advisory referendum on the main points of constitutional reform, such as the electivity of the Senate and the reduction of Members of Parliament. Only then can we proceed with the rest, respecting the wishes of the citizens. If this constitutional reform is for the good of the country, at least we ask the country what it wants and, if you are in good faith, you should not be afraid to support our proposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u220	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I wish to speak on Amendment 1.29, in accordance with Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that this amendment can be divided into two parts, because the provisions contained in it can be distinguished. I therefore propose that the last two paragraphs be separated from the remainder of the amendment. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u221	Senator Puglia, your speech is not appropriate at this stage. When we come to the vote on the amendment, you will be able to make this proposal. PUGLIA (M5S). Excuse me, President, but my request is in accordance with Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, not Rule 102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, as I have already told you, when you come to the vote on the amendment you will be able to make your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u222	Mr President, please I can also give the floor to Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u223	It is the Presidency that regulates the speeches, it is not a private negotiation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u224	MORRA (M5S). All right, but if there's courtesy from the rightful person... Mr President, if there is no problem, I would ask that I be able to add my signature to Amendment No 1,63 by Mr De Petris, Mr Barozzino and Mr Cervellini. De Cristofaro, Petraglia, Stefano and Uras, who also intervenes on the number of parliamentarians who are being reduced by the draft law we are examining. The numbers that are indicated as optimal to achieve an intelligent and effective reduction have already been tabled in other amendments and, in particular, in amendment 1.62, just explained by Senator Moronese. What does this amendment, in practice, and all those who in some way act as a corollary to the same concept, mean that we must be pluralists in reducing the number of senators, even when we go to touch the House of Deputies in the same proportion? The idea, precisely, that pluralism must be guaranteed through a balance of forces and numbers, which must ensure that both branches of Parliament weigh in such a way that the other can not take over, especially on those occasions indicated by our Constitutional Charter in which Parliament works together. Apart from the fact that even a lobotomized person - let me pass the word - understands that going with the cleaver only on the Senate and then leaving quietly, as if nothing were nothing, the Members of the House means being at least terrific, because you look on one side without seeing that on the other you could cut with equal insistence and effectiveness and - let me say - even with equal justice. In fact, if we have to do justice, we have to do it very well: let us reduce the senators to a third, but let us reduce them to a third, at this point, even the Members. But this is certainly not the objective that this measure aims at, because the sense of justice does not seem to me to emerge from the lines first of the basic text and then also, despite the efforts that we may or may not recognize to the rapporteurs, from the text that came out of the debate in the Commission. I used to speak of pluralism as the founding value of our Constitutional Charter. Plurality is realized through numbers that allow representation, and therefore the criterion of representativeness, to be effective in giving voice also to minorities less present in the country, however significant. If we go to reduce the number of senators very strongly, without touching the number of Members in any way, then this pluralism remains only flatus voices, that is, an expression of the voice that is not accompanied by substance. I appreciate the Latinists - few to tell the truth - who were left to immediately understand these references; the point is that even those who know Latin should then accompany these reflections with subsequent votes. I therefore hope that, as a result of these reflections, which I hope will be shared by many, we will have the pleasure of wondering whether we should also speed up the regulatory process in the other House. Any reduction in numbers, in fact, by suppressing potential entitled to speak and express themselves, potentially reduces the space and time of the debate. If we are to debate less then, rather than intervening on quotas, we are intervening on the number of those entitled to debate. This could be an option, logically impeccable, democratically a little less. But then, in addition to that, I liked to stress how much Parliament in common sitting has such a nature that precisely that system of weights and counterweights and numbers, which have not been randomly chosen, should be skilfully meditated on. Now, when is this Parliament meeting in common? Just tomorrow afternoon, for example, we will have to interrupt the sitting in advance in order to reach the Chamber of Deputies and indicate our choices in relation to the lay members of parliamentary expression of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Now, it is a matter that certainly needs to be considered and rethought; the rapporteurs have wisely drawn up reflections, but they will have to be put to the vote in the House. I would remind myself that in these hours in which we debated these issues in the Commission, precisely Title IV, Part Two, of the Constitution, which in words is said not to touch, but on which in reality someone, with wise amendments (perhaps satanically wise), wants to intervene. Someone, exactly the Forza Italia Group, had even - as Mr Calderoli reminded me in detail - expressed the conviction that he had to elect the members of the MSC and also of the Constitutional Court in a very different way from how democratically they have so far been elected, that is, assigning one third of the eligends to the President of the Republic and the remaining two thirds to the Parliament meeting in a joint sitting. As you understand, an electoral law such as Italicum is absolutely incapable of representing the pluralism that our Constitution requires us to follow forever as a comet star (renouncing therefore the much-called governability, of which many fill their mouths). Well, the comet of pluralism, with an electoral law such as Italicum, would have very little right to citizenship in a Parliament where more than six-sevenths of the members were of extraction of the Chamber of Deputies and only the remaining, about a seventh or a little less, expression of a Senate that would simply be surrounded and - let me say - even thin outline. The problem was also raised by a colleague of the Democratic Party Group, and precisely by Senator Gotor, who tabled an amendment aimed at strengthening the principle of representation in relation to the election of the President of the Republic, asking that the President of the Republic be elected by the Parliament in joint session with the support of MEPs. The aim is - in fact - to strengthen or better combat in an even more effective way the emptying of representativeness which would result in such a combined arrangement between the Italicum for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of 100 senators of the Republic, of which five exclusively of appointment of the President of the Republic. I am not going to dwell - because unfortunately for me and unfortunately for you too time is running out - on the quota to be reserved for the elected in the constituency of Italians abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, you must finish your speech. MORRA (M5S). Yes, I am. I put him in charge a while ago. If you'd been careful... I heard. Time, however, runs out, beyond its commitment to conclude. MORRA (M5S). Anyway, I get it myself. If we compare the number of eligends for Italians abroad to those condemned to emigration that the ruling class of the country has determined in recent decades, we could also rethink this relationship between representatives of Italians resident in Italy and representatives of Italians condemned to emigration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u225	Mr President, if Mrs De Petris allows me, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1.64. Today and yesterday we have dealt for very long hours with Article 1 of the draft law, which deals with Article 55 of the Constitution. This article, in practice, consists of two and a half sentences, which are very simple and of extreme beauty. The first is as follows: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Senator Finocchiaro is right when she says that there is a risk of enchantment in front of certain parts of our Constitution. It's true. I also enjoyed what Mr Candiani said when he spoke about the teacups and the importance, in order to get to the right temperature of the drink, of switching from one cup to another. I am not a member of the 1st Commission, but when I had the honour of speaking here, invited by Mr Crimi, I focused on this particular aspect, which is the importance of the transition between the two chambers. This passage, which - as Senator Finocchiaro pointed out - has always been noted in the debate as problematic, reserves in itself very interesting characteristics, assembly, participation, because (I have already said it in the Commission, but I want to repeat it here) it also allows public opinion to participate in the debate, to be present, to contribute. So, it's an extremely important and interesting passage. However, I also agree with my colleague who said that we must also look beyond, we must overcome the obstacles, if seen in these terms. So, although I am convinced that perfect bicameralism should be defended and that, perhaps, it would have been enough to put hand to the House and Senate Regulations, which often do not facilitate even the discussion that, sometimes, becomes an end in itself (too many hours in the Chamber, too few in the Commission, so it should certainly be considered at least our Rules of Procedure), despite this view, certainly the Senate, however differentiated, should be absolutely an elective Senate because - I have already said it in general debate and I do not want to dwell any further on the issue - the Senate, as presented in the draft law, is a mess of competences and overlaps of competences and more. But today I want to say something else. It is important to evaluate this matter of the Single Chamber because, if the Single Chamber is to be, it is even more important that it be a real popular assembly, therefore elected with a proportional system without any barrier and with preferences so that it is the true representation of plurality and popular will. A Chamber of Control as our Constitution wants. At least this should remain: a strong government, a guaranteed governability, but a House that is a popular assembly. With the rapporteur Anna Finocchiaro (this is a confession) I have a connection because decades ago, in a remote time, that doesn't seem to belong to today, I was his elector, when there was not yet the Democratic Party nor the Democrats of the Left. Therefore, it hurts me to hear certain statements of surprise because for me my colleague has always been a source of guarantee; when she says that certain words are as heavy as boulders it seems unlikely because she has not missed the drift that we are experiencing either. I don't think I'm the only one who sees it. It's an objective fact. You who have been present in these decades that lead us to evaluate even 2004, as my colleague said, ten years ago (with the Berlusconi Government!) as a time when the assembly debate was still respected and where a constitutional reform was assessed and discussed took as long as necessary, from January to March. It is objective that now this drift exists, it is clear, it is present and I would not expect a negation of this. Another detail which I consider to be extremely serious in this reform is contained in Article 12, in the sixth paragraph of the new Article 72, which refers to draft laws as essential to the implementation of government programmes. I say this because these government programmes have nothing to do with the electoral programmes and we have proof of this because what the Democratic Party said during the elections does not correspond to the current government programme, nor to the alliances it has made. Therefore, this government program could be absolutely far from the popular mandate, yet it is expected that the government may impose itself on a House that is not the free and controlling popular assembly, but a House of nominees. It is therefore difficult to separate this constitutional reform from the electoral law. It's an aberration; we're doing it but we're doing it wrong. We cannot think about this reform without thinking about what electoral law we will have: because if we have that electoral law where the Single Chamber, the one that remains, is a House of appointed with blocked lists, without preferences, with an abnormal majority prize, there will be a House of Members at the service of the President of the Council. It is clear that it is one thing to think of a Free House, then we would also be willing to evaluate a monocameralism, and it is one thing to think of a Chamber of nominees. These are important things and we must understand what an overall view we have. It is useless to break speeches and laws in so many small parts, because the overall view is important, it is important to return to an overall assessment. I would like to add that what was said by the Minister at yesterday morning's sitting surprised me very much, because in practice he spoke of listening, of contributing to opposition too (we cannot speak of minorities because we have an opposition that is a majority), but this contribution was not heard, because this Government lacks precisely the culture of consensus. True, a majority has numbers, but ethics should lead to understanding that the only way to govern without reaching these acts of force is that of consent, of mere listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u226	You have to finish, Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u227	NUGNES (M5S). We must listen to each other and arrive at an overall and general assessment, therefore a consensual choice. This would lead to the governability of the country: this is the true governability, not the act of force, the muscular act based on numbers. And I know that the rapporteur knows that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u228	Mr President, I would like to point out that I signed Amendment No 1.65 at the first signature of Senator De Petris, so I would ask the senator to be able to explain this. I would point out that we are in the presence of a Parliament elected with a law declared illegitimate by the Constitutional Court, a Parliament which should therefore confine itself to carrying out ordinary administration operations while waiting to return to the polls as soon as possible, as it lacks any moral legitimacy to reform our fundamental law, our Constitution. Having said that, I should like to turn to the substance of this amendment, which aims to replace Chapter I of the Government's draft law, Act No 1429, concerning provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the running costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, presented by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, and communicated to the Presidency on 8 April 2014. This amendment, in relation to the current constitutional reform, deals with Article 56 and Article 57 of our beloved Constitution. This amendment proposes amendments which I am going to present to the attention of this House. In Chapter I he spoke on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, both as regards the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. So, it says: ""1. (a) in the second paragraph, the words "six hundred thirty, twelve" shall be replaced by the following: "three hundred fifty, six"; (b) in the third subparagraph, the word "twenty-five" shall be replaced by the following: "twenty-one"; (c) in the fourth paragraph, the word "six hundred and eighteen" shall be replaced by the following: "three hundred and forty-four." 2. In the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, the words "three hundred and fifteen, six" are replaced by the following: "one hundred and seventy-five, three." I would remind you that Article 56 of the Constitution currently states: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is six hundred and thirty, twelve of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. All voters who were twenty-five years of age on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The division of seats between the districts, without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by six hundred and eighteen and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. The proposed amendment first intervenes on the second paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution, with a reduction in the number of Members. From the present 630 Members, 12 of whom were elected in the foreign constituency, 350 Members were elected, 6 of whom were elected in the foreign constituency. This amendment, therefore, takes due account not only of the parliamentary representation in Italy, but also of the representation of Italians residing abroad, registered in AIRE. Parliamentary representation of Italians abroad is maintained, but, as for elected Members in Italy, those elected in the four divisions established abroad are also expected to be reduced, from 12 Members to 6 Members. It is a legislative intervention that wants to increase the operation of the House. The aim of this amendment is twofold. First of all, by reducing the number of Members, we will have a more streamlined and functional Assembly. Moreover, this reduction in the number of Members of the Montecitorio Assembly will also lead to cost savings. In addition, in the third subparagraph, a further amendment is envisaged: the words "twenty-five years" are replaced by "twenty-one years." With this intervention we want to lower the age for the passive electorate. It is an important issue, which concerns two fundamental concepts for a democracy: that of eligibility and that of youth participation. This brings the age of the passive electorate closer to the age of the active electorate, which is currently acquired at eighteen years of age. This amendment responds to objective needs. First of all, it is concerned with widening the passive electorate and thus involving and enhancing the direct presence of young citizens in legislative processes. It is important to take action in this direction because we must take due account of the situation of serious discomfort that our young people are experiencing, caused by the prolonged economic crisis. If, in fact, young people are experiencing a situation that involves serious sacrifices, it is the responsibility of politics to ensure that they can access decision-making bodies, so that they can intervene directly in political life, without the mediation of intermediate actors. An age group currently excluded from active participation within the parliamentary institutions would, thanks to this amendment, have the opportunity to have its own representatives. In the light of the above, it seems necessary to ensure that this age group has the right to elect its own Members in Parliament. It is indeed a paradox that those who acquire the age may be mayor, Minister, but cannot be parliamentary. We think that with regard, for example, to the elections to the European Parliament, in most Member States of the European Union, the minimum age for running for elections is usually eighteen years; with the exception of Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Slovakia, which are twenty-one years old, Romania, which is twenty-three years old, Italy and Greece, which are twenty-five years old. Italy is among the few European nations, together with Cyprus, which requires such a high age for access to a Lower House. In the light of the above examples, broadening the passive electorate by including citizens who have turned 21 is also a way to align our country with the choices already made for some time by the major European Legislative Assemblies. In addition, in line with the overall reduction in the number of Members, the fourth paragraph is also addressed, where the word: "six hundred and eighteen" is replaced by the following: "three hundred and forty-four." Action needed to adapt Article 56 of the Constitution, which in its current version provides for: The division of seats between the districts, without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by six hundred and eighteen and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. A further intervention is foreseen in relation to Article 57 of the Constitution, in the second paragraph, where the words "three hundred and fifteen, six" are replaced by "seventy-five," three "seventy-five." I recall that Article 57 of the Constitution states: The Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis, except for the seats assigned to the foreign constituency. The number of elective senators is three hundred and fifteen, six of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. No region can have a number of senators less than seven; the Molise has two, the Valle d'Aosta one. The distribution of seats among the Regions, subject to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, after application... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u229	Please, Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u230	Mr Paglini (M5S). This amendment provides for a reduction in the number of senators: from the present three hundred and fifteen senators, of whom six are elected in the foreign constituency, to the one hundred and seventy-five and three in the foreign constituency. This amendment, therefore, takes due account not only of the parliamentary representation in Italy, but also of the representation of Italians residing abroad, registered in AIRE. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. Mr Paglini (M5S). I'll finish with the last two sentences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you can only finish a sentence. Mr Paglini (M5S). All right, I'm gonna close my surgery. The reduction will affect the costs both in the short and in the long term, therefore, with the reduction of the number of senators and Members, there will be a reduction in the allowances, reimbursements and then also of the vitalitys paid at the end of the legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u231	Mr President, like other Members who have tabled amendments dealing with the amendments to Rules 56 and 57, I too am preparing to give a sort of indication of what Amendment 1.66 provides for, to which I have signed. The amendment gives an idea of what could be the change in the number of parliamentarians and the second paragraph provides, in fact, the replacement of the numbers 630 and 12 as members of the Chamber by the numbers 350 and 6. Similarly, in the fourth subparagraph, the quantity of 618 shall be replaced by the quantity of 344. Now, the possibility of reducing the number of Members of Parliament has led to the possibility, in various discussions over the last few years, of presenting risks that have been presented by several interlocutors. In reality (which is not a small thing), when we talk in general about the number of parliamentarians, especially in our country, there is often a kind of convergence - at least it has been recorded to a certain extent in political history - around a single consideration: in fact, the parliamentarians are too many. But often people have wondered, not only in recent years, why, if there really is an agreement on this thesis, at the next step there is a blockade. There is an agreement, but nothing concrete has ever been done to reduce the number of Members. In general, those who have asked for a reduction in the number of Members, especially in Italy in recent years, have done so mainly on the basis of two large categories of reasons. The first relates to the symbolic reduction - but let me say that the symbols in these cases count enough - of the resources that the State uses to maintain the political class. At the same time, the second major category that is mentioned on the grounds of the request for a reduction in the number of parliamentarians is indeed the absence of a detailed reason for having such a large number of parliamentarians in our country, who we know are 945 plus the senators for life. Now, those who reflect and say that it is perhaps risky to reduce the number of Members also refer to a lack of correlation between Members of Parliament and a well-defined and limited constituency. With the current electoral law, Porcellum, we know that parliamentarians are elected on a regional basis. Let us now turn to the completely different situation in another country, the United States of America. For years in the United States, as in our country, there has been a great insufferance and annoyance towards the so-called political class. Normally, however, in the United States this insuffering is not due to the characteristic of having privileges, as we do, and it is mainly due to a consideration of poor efficiency and productivity of the members of the Senate and Congress. Now, because even then there are people and movements of opinion that question the number of Members of Parliament, it happens that there are those who say exactly the opposite. In fact, it happened that in several colleges and, above all, in New Hampshire and New York State the opposite position emerged, i.e. an increase in the number of parliamentarians was required. The situation in the United States is a little particular because, while the number of seats in the Senate is established by the Constitution and has nothing to do with the population (there is therefore no correlation between resident population and number of parliamentarians), Congress is exactly the opposite. In the Senate the number cannot be changed, while in Congress it is exactly the opposite. There is also the fact that some, over the years and above all, once again, in recent years, have raised a slightly different question: should the number of Members of Parliament be halved or should the salaries of Members be halved, in equal numbers? This argument has been supported mainly by arguments that go in the direction of political and institutional representation and those who support it believe and have always felt that Parliament should be able to adequately represent the different interests and views that exist in the nation and therefore in citizenship. Now, they say that, in order to do so properly, it seems clear to them that parliamentary representation should not be too small and therefore it would be excessive, according to this current of thought, to halve the number of Members. The idea of halving is an idea that is being supported, but it could also be supported by the idea of passing, for example, to a quarter, or a third, or to any other number of Members, so some people wonder: why halve? It may seem like random numbers, but it is understandable that this means being able to send a strong signal to citizenship, a signal of sharp discontinuity with a political practice that has obviously not given its best in recent years. Of course, before changing the number of Members, the debate in the Commission and the debate we have had over the last few weeks should actually put the problem of representation in a serious way, because the first consideration that must be supported is that Parliament must, even with the support of such an amendment, be able to best represent the different interests and points of view. In order to be able to do so properly, then, a comparison should perhaps be made in more depth with other national situations which are, yes, different from ours, but which are not so far away. If you take into consideration a graph presented a few years ago for some OECD countries more or less comparable to Italy as to the degree of economic and political development, you can see that Italy is, in a ranking of the total number of parliamentarians per country, second only to the United Kingdom and very close to France, two countries that we see very close to ours, as to the type of economic and political development. However, if we go, again in this OECD study, to the graphs showing the number of citizens per Member of Parliament, we get a slightly more precise idea of what are the reasons for the reasons for a drastic reduction in the number of Members. In Italy, for example, each Member currently represents an average of about 63,000 electoral citizens. It happens that looking at these OECD charts it is clearly seen that the larger countries have a number of citizens per MEP systematically higher.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u232	You have to finish, Senator Petrocelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u233	PETROCELLI (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. For example, Belgium, which has a population of about eight times lower than Germany, has a Parliament which is not eight times smaller. The same thing happens, for example, in Holland. If Parliaments therefore have comparable quantities in all countries, the criterion that determines or should determine their size should be rather different: and here I would suggest that of the cost per capita.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u234	Mr President, there are ten minutes until the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u235	You have to intervene in ten minutes, so you're talking. Use your time talking instead of shutting up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u236	PUGLIA (M5S). All right, thanks, ma'am. I would like to talk about Amendment No 1.67, to which I added my signature. We are going to make not an ordinary law, in which in reality politics is made: what is the majority proposes a political thought, a thought that comes from an idea shared by the group. Then there is the question: when are we going to change the Constitution we are going to make politics? Honestly, I'm not convinced. We do not make politics in the narrow and limited sense of the term, because it is obvious that in the broad sense we certainly make politics: we make politics even when we are together, when we act for the good of the other; then we always make politics. In this case I intend to use the word "political" to express that concept of group and, therefore, not in an enlarged sense. In this case we are going to change what is the founding Charter, the great rule, the milestone of an entire system, the milestone on which all the legislation is based, the whole interweaving of the laws that then regulate the relations of citizens and, in this case, also international relations and with the European Union. So let us start from the assumption that, by going to amend the Constitutional Charter, we must think of a broader political project, not the political project of the individual party or parts of the people, and join in a reality, an objective truth, which is the electoral law. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we must never disregard the rules governing the decision-making process by which the representatives of a nation are determined and, therefore, by the electoral law. Through this process we have representatives and the decision-making process that has established who represented the citizens at this time has been decided by a law at the end declared also unconstitutional. Then, having already spoiled the original law, when we go to modify the constitutional dictation, we really have to be careful. I don't see this attention. There is no such attention. We are not paying attention to the country, but we are paying attention to the most miserable part of the human being: vanity. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! Bravo! PUGLIA (M5S). In this case, however, we must consider our Constitutional Charter just as people who are not thinking of themselves but of the nation. With a majority electoral law we are already distorting the real representativeness of the country; all the more so, when we go to establish a constitutional process, we cannot ignore the listening of minorities. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). We have to do this to you. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] PUGLIA (M5S). I would like to read a part of our history, that Italy. It was Tuesday, 23 September 1947; Mr Giolitti had the power to speak about his amendment, which, after the words: 'universal and direct', proposed the insertion of words:'secret', according to the proportional system. [[Brusio.]] President. - Forgive me, I would like to be able to make my speech in a normal way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u237	Colleagues, we are practically at the end of the day, there is no reason to create agitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u238	Please continue, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). In this case, Mr Giolitti, explaining his amendment, namely that the vote not only had to be universal and direct but secret and according to the proportional system, explained: The reason for our amendment is this: that in our opinion the election system is of great importance for what is the physiognomy of popular representation. On the contrary, we think that this particular of the system of election, in the specific case of the proportional system, has a constitutional importance even greater than other norms that have been included in the draft Constitution, such as the date of convocation of the Chambers and the duration of the Chambers themselves; because, undoubtedly, the system of election has a great influence on the physiognomy of representation! (That's what we said before.) We have proposed the proportional system as the one we consider most appropriate and appropriate for the development of modern democracy. We have a majority system, a system which allows only a very small part of the Members of Parliament to rise to power. At a time when on the one hand we have a number established today within the Constitution, which was the same established at the time for the modification of the Constitution, and on the other hand we have a majority system instead of proportional, we are tampering with the Constitutional Charter with numbers that our constituent Fathers did not dream of. This constitutional bill does not go to abolish the Senate - let us remember - but simply to replace those who today are senators elected by the people with directly appointed by the parties: once again the popular prerogatives have been set aside. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] I also thank the good Esposito del PD for his applause, although, in truth, anything he says is always uninteresting. [[Live applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u239	Colleagues, let's keep it together. The work is coming to an end. Come to the conclusion, Senator Puglia, despite the growing consensus.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u240	[[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] PUGLIA (M5S). I haven't run out of my ten minutes, but I come to the conclusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have another 30 seconds, Senator Puglia, but then please finish, also because the session is about to end. PUGLIA (M5S). Then, Mr President, I shall finish my speech. We have presented a draft electoral law, the Italicum [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups]] , which we have assessed together with the citizens and certainly not within... Pardon: our bill is certainly not the Italicum, which has been established within a narrow chamber... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, your time is up: you had an extra minute, so you should finish. PUGLIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. Unlike what only two people have established, our bill, which is not Italicum, but the Democrat, has been established together with the citizens and, together with the citizens, this bill can really bring the people back to the centre of parliamentary discussion. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u241	For those who want to learn more, on the Net there is the recording of the live streaming. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u244	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week 298 innocent lives were killed by a missile of mass destruction, while the plane on which they traveled was flying over a war zone at the border between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. There were 298 people traveling, for business reasons, for holidays, for reuniting with their loved ones. They had nothing to do with the conflict that takes place over 10,000 meters lower. Many of them were not even aware of it: unfortunately they became the victims. There is no logical explanation. There's no excuse of any kind. The victims came from many countries: from Holland to Indonesia, from the United Kingdom to Australia, the country where I reside. 38 are the victims who lived in my country of adoption and between these two little brothers and a little sister, 8, 10 and 12 years old, who together with their grandparents returned home after a holiday in Europe: a completely destroyed family. There was a couple from Wollongong, a town right near my house. They had waited until her husband's retirement (among other things, anticipated due to an illness) to enjoy a dream vacation in Europe, traveling first class. I could continue this way for each of the 298 victims: each of them had a story that unfortunately will no longer be able to tell. In the past days I have heard of responsibility and guilt: material responsibility of those who launched the missile, material and moral responsibility of those who provided these terrible weapons of mass destruction, moral responsibility of those who allowed the plane to fly in that area, responsibility of those who fuel this conflict. Unfortunately, these are just words that will not give back the lives lost to their families. I hope that from this terrible experience and tragedy the world can learn something to make our heavens, and not just our heavens, safer. Pope Francis said that conflicts can only be resolved with peace. I agree perfectly: violence only generates more violence and more and more victims of violence are people who have nothing to do with the conflict. I also hope that our government will work to restore the innocent victims of this tragedy to their families, to ascertain the truth and their responsibilities, to take the necessary measures to avoid such tragedies in the future. Finally, Mr President, I am sure that I am interpreting the thinking of my fellow senators and my fellow senators in expressing our deepest condolences to the governments of the countries of origin of the innocent victims and to all families who will never see their loved ones again. A special thought, allow me, goes from me to the Australian Government and to the families of the victims of my country of adoption. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u245	The Presidency, in associating itself with the words of condolence expressed by Senator Jacob, invites the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u246	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-287.ana.u247	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 23 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.06 a.m.
