ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 6 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00607 on the legal status of the teaching staff declared permanently unfit for the teaching function, but suitable for other functions. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u4	Mr President, on the question raised by Senator Puglisi, I would like to point out that at first no written information had been received from the competent Directorate-General of the Ministry concerning the non-application by some peripheral school offices of the legislation on school staff which was declared permanently unfit for teaching but suitable for other tasks. Only in the short term had it been known that some school institutions in Abruzzo had invited inadequate teachers to submit an individual application for a visit, being able to assess this invitation as an expression of the will of these institutions to consider the submission by inappropriate teachers of the application to be subject to a collegial medical examination. The Director-General of the Regional School Office of Abruzzo, contacted by the Directorate-General, reported that, in carrying out the reconnaissance of the unfit teachers for whom a new visit was necessary and in order to establish prior contacts with the Medical Audit Commission of L'Aquila, the interested parties were invited to consider which option to choose, among those provided for in the aforementioned legislation (in particular, to be included in the professional profiles of administrative assistant or technical assistant, also to be used for the initiatives referred to in Article 7 of the aforementioned decree-law in the mores of the application of intercompartemental mobility, or to submit individual applications to be re-visited). Therefore, if the teachers had not opted for one of the two options mentioned (compiling the model A or the model B, prepared for that purpose), they would have been aware that they would have to undergo a new medical examination. To this end, the above-mentioned Directorate-General clarified with the schools concerned, in the short term, that, in the absence of a specific request from the teacher, it would have been sufficient to report the name by the school itself, without any constraints on school staff. Subsequently, an act of intimation and mistrust was received by COBAS (School's Basic Committees) with which alleged arbitrary acts were reported by some offices in the peripheral areas, as well as by some school leaders, in relation to an alleged compulsory nature for staff declared permanently unfit for teaching to apply for a new collegial visit. This is in contradiction to the regulatory provisions of Article 15, paragraphs 4 et seq., of the aforementioned Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 and to the related explanatory notes issued by the Ministry on 3 December (Note 133000) and on 6 December (Note 13220). The Directorate-General for Educational Staff, with Note 1314 of 18 February 2014 addressed to the directors of the regional school offices, reiterated that there is no obligation on teaching staff unfit for their duties for health reasons, but suitable for other tasks, to apply for a new medical examination, the latter's task, reserved for the administration. With the same note, the regional school offices were asked to take every useful initiative to comply with the aforementioned rules of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 and to communicate to the same management any measures different from this regulatory dictation and the consequent determinations in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u7	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his precise reply, which is a response to the reports I received about certain behaviours and undue requests by some school administrations, in Abruzzo and elsewhere in Italy as well. They are people who have already been tried out of life because of the problems for which they have been declared unfit for teaching, but who are nevertheless fit to carry out other important tasks for school autonomy. And since we have been able to finally clarify the importance of the work they do in schools during this parliamentary term, it seems very unfair to me to put them under this kind of stress. I would therefore like to thank the Undersecretary and the administration of the MIUR for having immediately become an active part in clarifying, especially at regional school offices and then at schools, what is the behaviour to which Decree No 104 of 2013 requires compliance with the teachers declared unfit for teaching, but suitable for other tasks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-00700 on the collapse of a ceiling in a school building in Cagliari. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u9	Mr President, the Regional School Office for Sardinia provided the following information on the specific case relating to the situation of the Liceo gymnasio (Liceo gymnasio) in Cagliari on the basis of a report by the school manager. As a result of the collapse of the floors on 29 November 2013, the necessary structural checks on the building were carried out in order to define the level of safety of the entire building structure. As the Fire Departments have verified, the failure had not been preceded by any sign of notice, so it was in fact impossible to assess in advance the potential structural hazard, except with specific unusual investigations in the normal verification of the building structures. On 18 December 2013 the loading tests on the floors were carried out by a company specifically responsible for carrying out the resulting structural investigations on 23 January 2014. In addition to the loading tests, analysis was carried out with infrared thermocamera and small demolitions located for the study of the structure. On 18 February 2014, the extraordinary commissioner of the Province of Cagliari sent to the school manager and to the president of the school council a note with which he reiterated the absence of important problems on the structural elements, while those related to the holding of the intradoxes of the floors were confirmed. The offices then began the planning phase of the interventions and the contract of the works, assigning a deadline for the execution of the works of about 120 days. From what has been reported by the school manager, once all the necessary checks have been completed and in case the first data will be confirmed, it is possible to assume the return of the building to completed works by next summer. As far as the general questions raised by the honourable Member are concerned, I should first of all like to point out that the subject of school construction is constantly being followed up by this administration. In particular, during the 21/2012 school year, the Ministry carried out a survey directly with the school institutions asking their managers to fill in an online form in which, among other things, it was necessary to indicate the type of the interventions of safety carried out by the local agency owner and the certifications issued in the matter of agibility, static testing, and other type of intervention. With regard to the area of the Province of Cagliari, the data provided by the school managers have found a situation of deficiency of the interventions carried out by the local authorities. Even the result of the certifications held by the school institutions concerning the situation of school construction in the Municipality of Cagliari and its hinterland was not positive; in fact, only 11 percent of the buildings turned out to be in possession of the certificate of agibility-habitability, and 12 percent of the certificate of static testing. In relation to the last question put by the honourable Member, I would like to point out that, as you know, the subject of school construction falls within the competence of local authorities under Law No 23 of 1996. Nevertheless, the State has always assisted the agencies themselves, subsidising the activation of specific intervention plans, mostly formulated by the Regions. Among the most recent initiatives, I recall the CIPE resolutions n. 32 of 2010 and n. 6 of 2012, according to which special financial resources were allocated to the Region of Sardinia for the safety of a hundred school buildings, including the Liceo "Dettori". In particular, for the Province of Cagliari, it turns out that on December 10, 2013 a first tranche of € 90,000 was actually credited (for a total financing of € 200,000). According to article 18, paragraph 8-b and later, of Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, the so-called decree of the doing, 150 million were allocated for the safety and renovation of existing school buildings. The funds were allocated, on the basis of the rankings approved by the competent Regions, by ministerial decree of 5 November 2013. For Sardinia, the allocation was 5 million euros and also involved six schools of Municipalities of the Province of Cagliari. With regard to the resources allocated for school building recently by the Government, the following is precise: 120 million have been allocated for each of the years 2014 and 2015 to exclude from the Stability Pact of the local authorities the resources destined for school building interventions; 300 million have been allocated to the sliding of the rankings of the decree of the doing, operation that will allow to finance further 1,850 interventions of school building already cantierabile and ready to start; 150 million are allocated for 2014 and 300 for 2015 and for the first quarter, to scale, of 2016 as quotas for a plan of biennial interventions of restoration of the conditions of decoration and functionality of the school buildings that will affect all the Italian Regions. To these quotas, we must add the resources already allocated with measures of the previous Government, which are available from the fund of the MIUR for the construction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u12	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, in thanking the Secretary for his timely reply, however, I would like to make a number of points which make you not fully aware of my sources of knowledge. First of all, it is true and obvious that the legislation on school construction, in particular Law No 23 of 1996, cited above, provides that all that concerns the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of school buildings is in the hands of the local authorities. It is also true, however, that in any case it is up to the State to ensure the right to study Italian students. The collapse in the Cagliari school (Liceo Dettori) from this point of view has brought out even more the precarious general conditions of the school buildings of Sardinia, in particular of the Province of Cagliari. On the island there are 67 institutes built in areas at hydrogeological risk, for example, and half of the buildings of the entire region is not compliant. One aspect that was mentioned earlier, namely the absence of static testing certification for about 50% of school buildings, must also be noted. Only in the Province of Cagliari, out of 75 higher institutions only 5 have the certificate of agibility. In 2009 the Minister had made inspections in all schools, and the allocation for urgent matters was - I understand - about EUR 3 million. Of those 3 million, the resources came in two tranches (the second one turns out to be exactly that of the last months of 2013). However, against those appropriations, for the province of Cagliari alone, 20 million euros would be needed to secure all the buildings. I believe that the Government in its entirety and the MIUR in particular must also play a role of solicitation, for the Region of Sardinia and the local authorities involved, on the conditions of the institutes, Cagliari in particular and in general of the whole Sardinia, also in order to identify new resources and sources of appropriation. I would particularly like to thank the Under-Secretary for his reply today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u13	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-244.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 13 May, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.22 p.m.
