ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u4	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00018 (text 2) tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00133 (text 2) tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00274 (text 2) tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, 1-00276, presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators, 1-00277, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00279, presented by Senator Puppato and other senators, and 1-00280, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, on regasification plants and on Civitavecchia's power station. I remember that in yesterday's afternoon sitting the motions were explained and the debate began. Senator Morgoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the energy sector plays a key role in the country's economic life, and even more so today it is one of the real opportunities for a new, more balanced but significant economic development. The theme involves several factors: costs (in Italy, 20 to 30% more is paid in more than other countries), quality of service to people and businesses, climate and natural environment influences, health and people's lives (let's think about the objectives of the European climate-energy package: reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing renewable energy and reducing primary energy consumption by 20%). Another significant factor is the security of supplies at least, if not self-sufficiency, which would appear to be a goal of desire; security in terms of continuity and quantity of supplies, which means guarantee for the very holding of the entire country system. Moreover, it is no coincidence that energy is at the heart of the policies of the European Union itself, which, after launching the European Energy Plan, by Regulation No 347 approved on 17 April 2013, laid down guidelines for the integrated development and interoperability of energy infrastructure at European level, with the aim of making the energy delivery and transport system more competitive, sustainable and secure, with the ultimate aim of creating the internal energy market and ensuring diversification and modernisation of supply. This is why the Regulation establishes twelve priority corridors and areas for the implementation of the Trans-European energy networks, which correspond to regional groups of States which, in cooperation with the European Commission, will manage the approval of their infrastructure projects including electric highways, pipelines, pipelines, storage facilities and non-traditional energy transmission pipelines. Of these projects of common interest with regard to gas in Italy there are twenty: they are very numerous also because of our strategic geographical position; in fact of the four priority gas corridors identified by the European Commission, three directly concern Italy. These projects also include the construction of new terminals and regasification plants. If we want to integrate the country with the European market and network we cannot evade this topic of storage and regasification facilities in which to receive liquefied natural gas by sea, regasifying it and putting it back into the network. This is required by the need to ensure the diversification of sources of supply, to reduce costs, to increase the safety margins of the Italian gas system and also a minimum of coherence, I would say, because, by eliminating the hypothesis of nuclear power and wanting to pursue the decarbonisation of the system, we must intensify, together with renewables, the use of gas, remembering that the gas produces CO2 emissions for about half of the petroleum products and about a third of the coal. In fact, for these reasons gas plays an increasingly important role: today it represents 20% of the global mix in the world but it is also growing due to an increase in supply linked to new mining technologies. In this context, Italy is one of the largest gas consumers in the world: 71.3 billion cubic meters in 2011 (third in Europe), but only 7.7 billion self-produced. But Italy is also among the most fragile systems, as 40% of the share of primary consumption of national energy comes from gas and 90% of this demand depends on abroad. We are in this sense the most vulnerable, also because we supply ourselves with a limited number of suppliers (the Netherlands, Russia, Libya, Algeria) through pipelines, and therefore with all the risks, political and technical, linked to areas marked by instability, as the current situation shows. These factors have led to emergencies such as in 2005 or as in February 2012, when the critical condition was such that it was necessary to take various measures of the emergency plan, including the activation of oil thermal power plants and the containment of the gas consumption of industrial customers who had offered such service for payment, with high total costs for the country. It should also be stressed that with pipelines we are forced to long-term fixed-price contracts, which contain clauses such as take or pay, which will force ENI to pay 1.5 billion euros for methane booked but not consumed. These are also numbers, and I tell Mr Cioffi that yesterday he gave the numbers in this House. In the current situation, even taking into account that the economic crisis and the development of renewable technologies have brought to light a significant decrease in gas consumption, the underlying problems relating to infrastructure, security and diversification in sources of supply remain intact. I would like to say to my colleagues Cioffi and Nugnes that the problem is not so much the capacity to import gas, but the constraints, rigidity, costs and risks associated with the import methodology through pipelines. Currently in Italy we have three regasifiers: Rovigo, Panigaglia and Livorno. The lines of the national energy strategy provide as necessary an increase in capacity of 8-16 billion cubic metres, which in itself would not involve the realization of many new infrastructures, but does not allow us to remain firm. The problem is not to mobilize typhosis pros or against regasifiers. If we avoid inappropriate ideological approaches, we will see well how problems need to be clearly identified and solutions also to recover the long time and many missed opportunities. I just want to remind you that in 2015 a terminal will enter into operation in Dunkerque that will lead France to be one of the main actors in the export of methane to Europe. In our country, by decree no. 164 of 2000, the government then asked the Authority for energy and gas to prepare measures to facilitate the installation of regasifiers, but only in 2005, and only after two traumatic events (a very cold winter and the disputes Russia-Ukraine, which produced a temporary reduction in the passage of gas), the Authority produced the resolution to facilitate the installation of new regasifiers. Unfortunately, we are the country of emergencies during which everyone curses against the responsibilities of those who have not made the choices. Then, in the wave of emergencies, we make hasty planning, which then we abandon equally hasty with the contribution of those who cursed against those responsible. In 2011 there were fifteen applications for new plants scattered throughout the peninsula, but none of them have had any results so far. The regasifiers currently in operation have seen the emergence of practices in very previous years. Unfortunately, we are also the country of endless lengths, because the approval of the projects to which we attribute strategic character takes on average a decade or more, as happened in the case of the plants of Livorno and Rovigo. No protection for the environment, neither for the people nor for the economic interests of the country is guaranteed by winding bureaucratic paths, within which there are many other dangerous evils. Slimmer procedures do not compromise the rigour necessary for the evaluation of delicate and complex works; On the contrary, linearity and clarity in the rules and procedures make it possible to properly enhance the information, the comparison, the awareness and the active participation of the communities on which these plants will affect. In conclusion, there are ambitious European objectives to be supported in our Presidency of the Union, geared towards the use of cleaner energy. These objectives can be pursued primarily by promoting renewable energies, but also by exploiting the use of gas which, among fossil fuels, is undoubtedly the least impacting. This is why we cannot allow ourselves to be prejudiced towards infrastructures, such as regasification plants, for which the authorisation process is under way, nor towards new initiatives, provided that they meet the strategic development needs of our country, integrated in the European context, and provided that in full respect of the best practices of protecting the environment of the safety and health of people. All this, of course, if we want to start from taking responsibility for the problems of the country and if we do not intend to elevate the practice of ostrich to a political strategy. Moreover, the many experiences, now widespread all over the world and now for a long time, show that these plants can be built and managed in safety conditions and in any case under conditions that do not justify alarmism or hysterism. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u10	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u13	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would ask for ten minutes' suspension to try to unify, if not all, at least some of the commitments set out in the motions tabled here and discussed yesterday. With ten minutes we try to understand whether there is the possibility of gathering motions as far as possible. I also ask you to listen, with regard to the 5 Star Movement, to Senator Martelli, who just pointed out to me that he wanted to clarify a better evaluation that he included in the commitments of the motion of which he is the first signatory, because as it is written it is difficult to understand: probably his clarification would make the issues clearer even for the Undersecretary present.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u16	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, with our motion, in point 1 of the proposal, we ask that the integrated environmental authorisation for the Torrevaldaliga Nord plant in Civitavecchia be reviewed in order to restore the operating parameters for the environmental impact assessment. In 2003, in fact, an EIA was issued with which the plant was authorised to operate according to certain parameters: 3.6 million tons of coal to be burned and an annual operation of 6,000 hours. In 2013, the integrated environmental authorisation changed these parameters, bringing burnable coal to 4.5 million tons and operation to 7,500 hours. Since this is a substantial change, the environmental impact assessment should be completely rebuilt, because the AIA alone cannot do so. Therefore, the AIA should be reviewed in the light of these new parameters: it could not be granted an AIA tout court without redoing the environmental impact assessment. There must be consistency between these two administrative acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u17	As no comments are made, I suspend the sitting until 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.49 a.m. and resumed at 10.11 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u20	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, since we still have some agreements to draw up, I would ask you, please, for a further brief suspension of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I am suspending the sitting once again. (The sitting was suspended at 10.12 a.m. and resumed at 10.21 a.m.) The session is resumed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u22	Madam President, bearing in mind, however, that any revision procedures, in the light of new and justified elements, may be initiated by local authorities, in relation to the commitments requested by the Government, I am opposed to motion No 18 (text 2), motion No 133 (text 2) and motion No 274 (text 2). I also object to the premises of Senator Cioffi's first signature of motion 276, although the opinion could have been changed in favour if points 3 and 4 were removed from the motion. With regard to motion 277 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, the opinion would be favourable if the text were reworded by adding in the undertaking the words "for example" before the words "through the use" and by expunging the words "even if necessary" until the end of the period. The opinion is in favour of motion 279, first signed by Senator Puppato, and motion 280, tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u25	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, I apologise, but when the work resumed, I probably should have asked for the floor before the government representative. I apologize again. We would, however, like to propose two additions to motion 279, signed by Senator Puppato and other senators, on which at this point it would be necessary to ask for the integration of the Government's opinion, already in favour. In particular, we would like to add among the commitments to the Government the two points that I will now read for the Assembly and that we have already sent to the Presidency (undersecretary Degani should have copies). The first is as follows: "to assess the appropriateness as a result of the suspension in place and where the conditions for the issuing of the decree for the revocation of the authorisations granted for the regasifier of Trieste are fulfilled. The second commitment that we would like to integrate is as follows: to ensure compliance with the AIA requirements for the Torrevaldaliga Sud plant of 5 April 2011 and to ensure that all the requirements and compensations provided for in the EIA for the Torrevaldaliga Nord plant are complied with. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would also ask the Government representative to give her an opinion on this proposal for integration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u26	The Government gives a favourable opinion on the proposed additions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, now we are going to find ourselves in a rather strange situation. In fact, the additions proposed by Senator Tomaselli - on which the representative of the Government expressed a favourable opinion - have been partly copied from the points of other motions, for example with regard to Civitavecchia and the Torrevaldaliga Sud plant and, in the same way, with regard to the part relating to the regasifier of Trieste, even if in a sweet way. I would point out, however, that undersecretary Degani has expressed an opinion against those motions and, therefore, I believe that this risks being absolutely inconsistent, unless the Government decides to express favourable opinions only on the majority motions or on other motions it considers, beyond what is written. It is clear that, when I vote on the motion for a resolution with the contrary opinion, if it were rejected, those points that Senator Tomaselli is now asking to supplement would - in my opinion - be foreclosed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u30	I'd like to understand. Undersecretary Degani said that the opinion would be against, but it could become favourable if points 3 and 4 were put forward. I do not understand, however, whether it is points 3) and 4) of the commitments, the last part. Just before that, however, he spoke about the premises and so I did not understand well. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. I was talking about removing the commitments set out in points 3 and 4). CIOFFI (M5S). So, I understood well, even if I hoped it wouldn't be like this: expunging points 3) and 4) of the device we remove the fat and remain the fuffy. So, we totally disagree. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u31	Don't express yourself that way. So, he disagrees. Senator Council, do you accept the request for reformulation? COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u34	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, Citizens' Choice subscribes and votes with conviction on the motions tabled by the majority groups and also the others on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, because it considers them balanced in an effort to bring together development, health protection and the fight against global warming. In the light of the new European targets, defined on 22 January 2014, the national energy strategy needs to be radically modified by rapidly moving towards increasing quotas produced through renewable sources. Strategic aspects must also be taken into account, in particular in order to prevent our gas and oil supplies from being too dependent on unique sources. The motion tabled by Senator Puppato and other senators - and I also thank in particular Senator Puppato for the laborious work of mediation in order to find the right convergences also in the Chamber - taking into account these aspects, commits the Government in three directions: to intensify the epidemiological monitoring on the possible consequences of emissions from the coal-fired power plants of Civitavecchia, as well as all areas exposed to pollution risk related to the emission by energy; to accelerate the disposals of coal-fired power stations and to insist on the way of energy efficiency. There are many actions that the Government will be able to take; I want to mention only three, closely related to the three aspects previously outlined: first, to proceed in the direction of an epidemiological research based on individual data, integrating territorial studies that, alone, can give indications only of principle on the connection between the occurrence of pathologies and exposure to pollutants. These studies will benefit from the integration between individual archives, finally bringing Italy into line with the best international standards. Secondly, diversify gas supply, in particular through the rapid implementation of the TAP. Finally, in any case, to remove regulatory obstacles to the efficiency of the energy network and buildings, also proposing new incentive rules. In recent years, despite a thousand contradictions, Italy has abandoned the role of European cinderella in energy efficiency and in the use of alternative energies. We must insist in this direction on an increasingly green Italy, which faces the challenge of remaining a great industrial power without sacrificing the health of the environment and the health of its citizens. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u37	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, I am grateful that an important subject is being discussed. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague, Mrs Puppato, who was the first signatory to motion 279, also for her mediation work. The country's energy future and the risks associated with energy practices that are struggling to be re-modulated according to principles of sustainability and environmental protection are subjects that deserve lucidity and pragmatism, net of ideological speculations, which have a major media and social appeal, but little response in practice, especially in terms of protecting the country's economic potential. It is worth remembering, as some of the motions in question do, that between energy sources, gas and renewables are to date the most expanding, at the expense of oil. This is a point from which to think together on proposals for eco-friendly energy enhancement, framing the speech in the European perspective of energy emancipation of renewable sources. In this respect, we recall the 2008 climate-energy package, known as the 20-20-20 package, which identifies the energy and climate objectives to be achieved by 2020: a reduction of at least 20% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels; a 20% share of renewable energy; an energy efficiency level achieved through a 20% reduction in primary energy consumption. But European design did not stop until 2008. This year has been presented a framework for energy and climate policies that includes 2030-oriented interventions, with more ambitious and more harmonious objectives with the levels of evolution that individual countries are experiencing. The increase, for example, in the share for renewable energy obviously represents a responsibility for the individual countries that imposes on these a remodulation of the method so far used for the valorization of alternative energies: that is, first of all, the incentive system that in Italy represents the cross and the delight of the energy system, which, on the one hand, is configured as the only viable solution to face the overwhelming competitiveness of fossil sources, on the other risk to feed speculation and eventual distortions of the national market. Motions in the vote have dealt, in a different way and in some questionable points, with a theme often left to the side of institutional discussions, legitimizing sometimes unclear positions on fossil energy sources other than oil used in our country. For this reason, I wanted to support the majority motion of which I myself am a signatory, precisely because this makes it possible to define a more lucid and objective point of view on the issues dealt with in the acts under consideration. Let's look first and foremost at how we use and transport gas on our territory. We know that natural gas has long been recognized as the cleanest of fossil fuels, but around the image of regasifiers (the infrastructures that allow the transport and use of it) have proliferated discordant positions and real mobilizations, unfortunately very often also social. But let us consider for a moment the role of these plants. The regasification capacity of Italian plants is higher than the specific demand for gas, assessed on the basis of existing sources of supply. They are therefore strategic infrastructures, because they have the ability to achieve a greater supply of gas on the national market at competitive prices and more effective conditions of competition, while at the same time allowing security of supply and thus ensuring greater flexibility in the national market. Therefore, these infrastructures should not be seen as a threat, but as a strategic opportunity, as their presence on our territory, given the geographical configuration of the country, would allow the Italian system to move from a simple centre of consumption to a transit of gas to European markets. With this awareness it is necessary to read the choices of the administration within the national energy strategy of 2013. The demonisation of regasification plants is, in fact, unfounded, also considering that the Italian legislation on environmental and health protection, is particularly stringent, where, in the matter of VIA-VAS, it explicitly provides that the authorisation procedures of any infrastructure project are mainly aimed at preventing potential risks to public health, safety and the environment. On the other hand, with regard to the production of electricity from coal, which is also widely addressed in the motions under discussion, I think it is desirable to focus on a number of aspects. There has been a lot of talk about the Torrevaldaliga plant, in the area of Civitavecchia, which actually has points worthy of deepening, especially as regards the extent of its impact on the population and on the territory. I believe that it is essential that all emissions controls are carried out on these structures, as well as an epidemiological study on the population concerned, due to the renewal of the environmental AIA in 2013. Obviously all this could not be implemented without full involvement of the relevant Ministries, also in agreement with the Lazio Region and after the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees. A multilevel responsibility to create the conditions for a careful study that could move from the area of Civitavecchia. This awareness must lead us to formulate concrete commitments to the Government, abandoning the easy demagogic drifts, which are not functional to achieve the economic and energy results of the country. For this reason, I believe it is a priority to call for an update of the national energy strategy with the aim of gradually reducing the use of fossil fuels, and the exploitation of a distributional energy system, based on energy saving, efficiency and renewable sources. Gradually reducing the use of coal for the production of electricity, until its complete abandonment, must be a further priority, through a real decarbonisation roadmap, as defined in the unitary motion. At the same time, all possible controls at national level must be activated to understand the real impact of coal-fired power stations on the health of citizens and the ecosystem, in order to give answers to citizens and at the same time to create a deterrent for unnecessary speculation which could only create alarm and social emergency. A point on which it is necessary a certain commitment of the Government - also in line with the conclusions of the European Council of 22 May 2013 - is the total repeal of subsidies to fossil fuels, starting from those identified by the OECD and those financed from the electric bill, whose continued permanence, in fact, exorcises every hypothesis of evolution and energy emancipation of the Country. This step should be followed by a policy of efficiency of energy transport networks, which favours the transition of existing networks into smart grids, with the aim of intelligently integrating the actions of all connected users, ensuring efficient, sustainable and cost-effective energy distribution. Several times these objectives have been highlighted to the Government and very often commitments have been made on this front. However, the energy emergencies that have emerged in recent months, combined with the difficulties associated with the crisis and the unsustainability of the bill weight of the incentives to support fossil sources, require rapid and decisive change of course. For these reasons, with conviction and awareness, I declare the Group's vote in favour for Italy to the majority motion and to all those motions that will transpose the reformulations proposed by the Government. The majority motion, while remaining faithful to the demands and doubts raised by the motions on the calendar, places them in a framework of lucid analysis and profitable operational perspective that I invite everyone to support. [[Applause from Group PI and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u40	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a very glowing (other than "fuffa") opportunity!), because these motions have come to the House's attention. I took the trouble to reread the first speech made by the President of the Council in this House, when for the first time he explained what he had in mind and I went to see if and how, on that occasion, he had dealt with the issue of energy, if he had talked about supplies, storage, energy costs and pollution. To my great astonishment - but I was already certain, because I was there that day - I found only a small hint, a very brief passage in a context in which the job problem was addressed and there was talk of jobs that could be created by the development of alternative energies. I do not know if it has been a forgetfulness, perhaps it will have been little attention or the fact that an arm talk leads to potential gaps. I can't say, but that's it. Thank you, therefore, for these motions and for their debate in the Chamber and for the revitalization of a fundamental topic for the economy of this country. So let's talk about it, let's talk about supply, energy security and the cost of energy, diversification, compatibility and respect for the environment. Madam President, these motions, whether or not they share the arguments that have been discussed in them, serve and must serve, as a force, as a stimulus to start thinking seriously on a national energy level. A national energy plan is necessary and extremely urgent because energy supply is a very complex issue for the maintenance of our country system and for the international relations it entails. Madam President, I would say that we can call it the most geopolitical issue in the relationship between Europe, Russia, Turkey, Mediterranean countries and Central Asia and I would remind myself that they are countries with enormous reserves of natural gas. The 10th Commission yesterday, following a work which has seen a number of very important hearings in recent months, has worked on the question of the cost of electricity and gas, in a real tour de force in which President Tomaselli has put our Commission in a position to work on the energy issue and we hope that the outline of the implementation of the European directives on energy efficiency will not remain an isolated initiative but can also be, together with these motions, the beginning of a path linked to very serious reasoning on the energy issue. According to some scholars, to affect the decrease in the demand for electricity, as we have read in some motions, because of which therefore there would be no need for plant engineering, are on the one hand the economic crisis, which has reduced consumption, and on the other the excessive cost of energy in Italy. This last problem puts the economic recovery of this country at serious risk and in difficulty, but this is not new. In calculating, therefore, Madam President, that the last national energy plan dates back more than 25 years, our Group felt that it was time to put in place a new plan and update it to the current requirements. Europe itself, which we sometimes think there is a friend because at the last opportunity it has treated us well (the newspapers this morning report the issue related to the infringement of non-payment by the public administration), imports 54% of the energy it consumes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This forced her to embark on a new energy and environmental policy by approving a document in 2007 and then later supporting it with the third energy package and related measures. All this, I would like to remind the House, is governed by Article 134 of the Lisbon Treaty, which first introduces a specific legal basis for the establishment of a European policy. And then the question, as someone said, arises spontaneously: yes regasifiers or regasifiers, doesn't it? Is that an alethic question? I say it's a necessary question. Experts who are prone to yes find answers sought in the difficulty of importing gas: import which has national strategic value, which must take place in safe and competitive conditions, with diversification of sources of supply and therefore with the creation of infrastructure. And then it would seem necessary the realization of more regasifiers and more pipelines in order to diversify the sources of supplying, increasing the safety of it and improving the contractual force towards the producers. Other news reports talk about what happened in Ukraine. This thesis is in line, among other things, with the choice that this country has made by giving up nuclear power, a choice that has fallen on the use of gas, a choice that will determine the scenario of the next ten years at least. This choice will mean that more than 60% of electricity will be produced in the latest generation combined circulation plants. Other schools of thought tend to consider the construction of new regasifiers as an unnecessary expenditure of money, an environmental rubble at the sites where they are placed, a damage to the terrestrial and marine environment, an unnecessary infrastructural upgrade that goes in contrast to those that are, in recent years, the demands and the consumption of energy. Madam President, the Lega Nord Group is not generally opposed to the construction of regasifiers, but is certainly opposed to the design of plants in places where the economic, environmental and naturalistic analysis has highlighted not only the tremendous ecological impact of the planned structures, but also the economic damage resulting from the difficult coexistence with port activities. I am referring specifically to that authorized in Zaule Bay, Trieste. Well, Madam President, we in the Lega Nord Group, in line with our motion, which is deliberately dry and simple (because complicated things never lead to anything good), we ask that the Government commit itself to ensuring that the new technologies are taken into account and that the methane vessels are equipped with the facilities that allow natural gas to be transformed from liquid to gaseous. This is our propensity as indicated in our motion. As far as the other motions are concerned, however, we have assessed that they are rather complicated, and the simplicity of the proposal is an element on which our Group has very much relied on the choice of voting guidelines on individual motions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the motions we have tabled (but also others) are once again trying, starting from specific issues, to give more general indications. The first of our motions (for a year ago) starts from the situation of the regasifier of Trieste, but tries to give more general indications about the location of the choices on regasification plants in the national energy strategy. The other motion, the one on Civitavecchia, also arises from a very specific situation, regarding which formula of the very serious requests, trying to lead to a reflection on the absurd and unscathed choices that continue to be made in favor of coal, but it also represents the attempt - I must say that, alas, it was a missed opportunity - to start a serious and strategic debate on the problem of energy security and the energy choices of the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we were faced with a government, the government chaired by Monti, which, at the time when it had already fallen (it was being extended pending the formation of the new government), was concluding the approval of the SEN (the national energy strategy). Alas, the successive governments, the one Letta before and the one Renzi now, have not done what we consider absolutely necessary for the good of the country, that is to review completely the national energy strategy. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u44	I ask everyone in this House to lower their voices, because it is really difficult to listen to what my colleague has said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u45	Please, Senator De Petris, continue. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We must therefore avoid continuing to make choices that are contradictory to each other. We believe that the country can no longer continue to swing in its choices: sometimes regasification plants are made outside of a national energy strategy; at other times we continue on the road to coal, and even propose, even in crisis areas, new coal-fired power stations; at other times we are filled with renewable energies, generically (it seems that in the same decree that was approved on Friday there is another operation that certainly does not favour renewable energy); or, again, we go to the European Council and we adhere, in some way, to the European strategy, which indicates very precise goals for 2030. In fact, all this always happens without an overall reasoning, while that is what we need. We are absolutely convinced that we must completely review the national energy strategy, that we must make a definitive choice of place of our country in the future and that energy security for the country can only be represented by a plan... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u46	Senator Bernini, please lower your voice a little. If you could keep your voice down, we'd be able to hear it here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I'm having trouble getting back to the wire all the time. We need to completely review the national energy strategy, because it must respond to the needs - these yes - of innovation and modernity. The only way for the future of our country is to put in place an exit strategy from coal, which takes us out at least by 2030, which is based on the centrality of supply from renewable energy sources, on energy efficiency, on energy saving. Let us continue to move forward with choices that are at odds with each other. On renewable energy we made some choices, then we went back, without giving certainty as to investment in this sector. We know that we need to make a further qualitative leap, also by implementing an incentive mechanism on storage systems. It is necessary to move to a second generation, based not on large plants, but on widespread generation. Even on the issue of gas, we cannot continue to make choices that are absolutely outside a national strategy and that are also outside the logic of the European single gas market. For this reason, even on the story of the regasifier of Trieste, I believe that the Government is in contradiction with itself: we submitted this motion a year ago, a few days ago the House was given the announcement by the Government that the realization of this plant would be suspended, and we, in this motion, do nothing but ask for the implementation of this manifest will. However, as you have heard, Madam President, the Government is against our motion. In this way, the Government takes the opposite view on what it said a few days ago; it takes the opposite view on the updating of the national energy strategy, based on renewable energy sources and energy saving, in contradiction with the objectives which, in words, it intends to reconfirm in Europe. Above all, the Government clearly gives a contrary opinion on what is the most interesting issue, the one on which, historically, all interests have always concentrated. It is about the preparation of the definitive elimination of direct and indirect subsidies to the energies deriving from fossil sources: those for which, moreover, we continue to pay through the CIP6 also in our bill, the personal one, of the families and of all the enterprises of this country. Moreover, this is a request which has also recently come from the European Commission. From this point of view, Madam President, we are also a little perplexed. As you know, there is always an attempt in this House to unify motions and try to achieve positive results. Instead, in the field of energy, where opposing interests and opposing lobbying continue to remain, it was not intended, by the manifest will of the majority and also of the Government, to achieve no united outcome. This behaviour has a high degree of irresponsibility: not towards this House (because, frankly, from this point of view we are not more affected), but of irresponsibility with regard to the objective, which a country like ours should take as a priority, of the security and also of the energy sovereignty of its country. Above all, it is an irresponsible behaviour in the face of what is no longer - as some people considered it a long time ago, even in this House - just a catastrophic cry, that is, the issue of climate change. Today we continue to ignore what is happening, as well as the data from the scientific world, and we continue not to make the right choices. Clearly, we will vote in favour of our motion and also of other motions, such as that of Senator Martelli, which are on the same page. As far as the issue of Civitavecchia is concerned, yesterday I was very precise in explaining the data. There is an alarming health point of view. There is an alarming figure also from the work point of view because yesterday, despite the fact that there was always an attempt to do the "employment against health" operation, the letters of dismissal (for example, from the company that manages the Torrevaldaliga South power station) arrived. We do not want to understand that this is an emergency today and that we need to respond to a need on the part of citizens. We can no longer ignore what led to the concentration of three power stations in that area and we cannot ignore the fact that, following the revision of the AIA in 2013, the quantities of coal used have increased. In addition, permission has been given to increase the percentage of sulphur irresponsibly, knowing that the data coming from the epidemiological observatory of the Lazio Region are heavy. All we do is call for, with our motion, for accountability, because in many cases we pretend to say that there is a health emergency, that the main task of public administrations and the State is to protect the health of citizens, but then here, in this House, we do not even want to have access to the request to reopen the Conference of Services on AIA with regard to Torrevaldaliga Nord in order to put together data to ensure that in some way the limits are lowered and that we try to return to an area of sustainability. You cannot pretend to ignore that a choice you will have to face (which we will have to face) is that of an exit strategy, also there of disposal, because the populations of Civitavecchia, Tarquinia, Santa Marinella and of all the northern area of Lazio can no longer continue to tolerate this situation. And a similar speech could be made for many other regions. Then you wake up one morning and it turns out that people die of cancer, that there is a drama and a very high environmental impact... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, please finish. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). ...and we do not want to have the courage to say in this House that perhaps it is necessary, as far as Torrevaldaliga Nord is concerned, to reopen the Conference of Services. A government that says in words that it wants to dismantle corruption and that it wants to restore legality should perhaps consider whether it is not necessary to review all those AIAs and those authorizations, granted in very interesting years, so to speak, from the director's point of view. For this reason, we, of course, confirm our vote in favour of our motions and the first-signed motions of Senator Martelli and Senator Cioffi, who have the same approach. We are very sorry that once again the opportunity has been missed, on the part of the majority and by the Government, to take a step forward in the interest of the country, to develop clearly the tasks related to national energy choices, and it has missed the opportunity to give a serious response to the alarms (not generic, but supported by data) that come from the territories that suffer these strong impacts and that have suffered bad choices, such as that of the conversion to coal of the Torrevaldaliga North power plant in Civitavecchia. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u50	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, I would like to thank the motion-makers, who have allowed us today to talk about such an important issue and which has often been overlooked in these classrooms, such as the issue of energy efficiency. This theme has become increasingly important in the debate and energy policies of the most industrialized countries, as energy is a factor of economic growth, well-being and technological and social progress. Industrial and social developments, which have accelerated significantly over the last fifty years, have had a lowest common denominator: the increasing use of primary energy, which grew worldwide by 40% between 1980 and 2010 and with a trend destined to be confirmed also in the twenty years that will lead us to 2030, according to estimates. It is therefore clear that it is of primary interest, at Community and national level, to finally set up policies that lead to the resolution of the so-called energy trilemma, that guarantee energy security, access to energy at competitive prices, and environmental sustainability of energy use. It is also clear that energy efficiency is the key to the resolution of the trilemma, because it can guarantee an energy system less exposed to the risks and volatility that global economic growth inevitably causes and can contribute to the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and local pollutants, for sustainable growth. It is clear that today's theme and the motions on regasifiers are an absolutely delicate issue, because, as often happens to us, they combine on the one hand the sustainability of these initiatives and on the other the proven need for a better energy efficiency of the production and the realization of these industrial bodies. We, as the New Right-Hand Group, are absolutely in line and we are in favour of the motions on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u53	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of motions Nos. 18 (text 2) and 133 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator De Petris, and against motion 277 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Bitonci, because neither the installation nor the commitments requested by the Government convince us, and indeed we are deeply opposed. Instead, it will abstain on motion 280 tabled by Senator Pelino, because we cannot have any judgment, positive or negative, on a motion that does nothing but submit to the Government the request for three reports to be taken to the Chambers. He will also abstain on motion 279 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Puppato, because it represents a sort of cosmic void in the commitments requested by the Government and then become, after the addition of the commitments proposed by Senator Tomaselli, a sort of primordial minestrone. I would like to say to Senator De Petris that it seems a little strange to me that it is surprising that Mr Tomaselli presented - as he said earlier - commitments to the Government that they are a kind of copy and paste of those of his motions. I am surprised that all previous commitments to those reported in addition by Senator Tomaselli are nothing more than a copy and paste watered down of the motion filed in the Chamber of Deputies by the SEL Parliamentary Group concerning the Tirreno Power plant of Vado Ligure on March 24, 2014, at the first signature of the Member Pellegrino. Senator De Petris, there's no wonder. For this reason, therefore, not considering the installation and commitments worthy of either a vote in favour or a vote against, we will abstain in the vote on the motion at the first signature of Senator Puppato. The reason why we are going to ask colleagues to vote in favour of the two motions presented by the 5 Star Movement is of substance. With reference to what Senator Morgoni mentioned in his general discussion, I would like to remind his colleague and all the members of the majority that, in the document of economy and finance presented by the Renzi Government, regarding the conditions of accumulation of gas and therefore of storage and production through the current plants, Italy has a gas storage capacity - defined precisely by the same Government, and therefore also by the majority and the Left Ecology and Freedom that that DEF voted - which leads it to be today the second in Europe - I quote - with the possibility of satisfying the criterion N-1, i.e. a high demand for gas in the absence of the main source of supply, which increases the energy security of the country and the balance of trade. So, if the majority plus Left Ecology and Freedom, which voted in favour of the DEF, say this, I wonder - in this case I am addressing the majority above all, and not my colleagues at SEL - why they would want to continue with the construction of new regasifiers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If existing stocks increase the security of our country in the face of high demand, why must the state still be put in economic difficulty with the design or construction of new plants? Do they serve in the near future to store the shale gas from the United States? In this respect, I would like to make a reservation to my colleagues in the majority, who this time is not a storage reserve, but a real doubt. I ask myself: what do we need the billions of cubic meters of shale gas that the previous Letta Government has opted for in the Obama administration at a price that is not the lowest, today, of the market, but at a much higher price, when these will be available? Why do we need these cubic meters of gas if the government says that we are sufficiently covered even in case of lack of gas from our main supplier, which is Putin's Russia? Taking up some of the figures already listed by many of my colleagues, I would like to move on quickly to a few points. To date we have, along the west coast of our country, the TENP pipeline, which comes from Holland and Norway, with 8 billion cubic meters of gas, the Transmed, which comes from Algeria with 25 billion cubic meters of gas, the transport of liquefied gas from Algeria, Qatar and Egypt, for a total of 3.5 billion cubic meters of gas. Secondly, along our eastern border, we have the TAG, which comes from Russia, with 22 billion cubic metres of gas, and they are planned, always along the east coast, the South Stream, which will always come from Russia with a volume of about 30 billion cubic metres (which could, however, become 63 billion), and the TAP, of which we have already discussed extensively in this House, which will bring the Azerbaijani gas to a total of 10 billion cubic metres. Finally, there will be pipelines on the west coast, namely the Greenstream and the GALSI, which are still under feasibility study. In total, and he mentioned it already more than a few colleagues, between active and incoming pipelines would abundantly exceed the hundred billion cubic meters of gas per year, and perhaps the 130 billion, depending on the amount of gas that will bring the South Stream. This import dimension is clearly in contrast to the volumes of gas that serve our country and with the steadily decreasing trend that has occurred in recent years. Many cited the fact that consumption increased from 84 billion cubic metres in 2005 to 70 billion cubic metres in 2013. In fact, SNAM estimates a demand of 74 billion cubic metres, which in any case would be lower than that of 2003, and it is almost the same as the current one that stands around 70 billion cubic metres, 63 of which are imported. At this point I believe that our motions are to be supported, because in our country we not only have an excessive amount of gas, between what we import through the pipelines or already active plants and what will come in the near future, but we also have a surplus of electricity produced, with thermal power plants for 78,000 megawatts of power to be added about 45-48,000 megawatts of renewables, against a request that does not go beyond 57,000 megawatts. What is happening in countries that have a serious energy policy, like the United States? Already today, in the country that would like to sell more or less under cost the shale gas, and precisely in the State of Illinois, 99 urban centers are energy-free from the energy produced with the fossil. The same administration Obama managed, in the first four months of 2014, that is this year, to produce, throughout the federal territory, electricity exploiting only 0.02 percent of production from oil and gas. Everything else did it with renewables. In the Netherlands, just to say another, in the coming years Government and railways predict that the trains will travel not with the energy produced by fossils but exclusively with energy produced by the wind. In Italy, instead, what does the Government do? On the one hand it does not allow to accumulate the renewable energy produced (because if we can consume it, well, otherwise it is thrown away) on the other, instead, it allows to still design regasifiers, thus giving funding to the fossil lobby, instead of taxing them properly. In addition, banks and not citizens are encouraged by the old Conto energia project. 11:17 a.m. (Follows PETROCELLI). In fact, we have access to the energy bill for energy equivalent to renewable energy, such as that produced by the incineration of waste. In my opinion, however, it is even more serious that we have been able to produce and distribute renewable energy in a top-notch way, transferring capital directly from the pockets of the citizens - to whom the ENEL bill has been increased by 7% - to the pockets of the usual big entrepreneurs and the usual multinationals. This mechanism, in my opinion, has subverted the very principle inherent in the production of renewable energy, i.e. the one for which I produce it and the consumption by myself, and has caused double damage: the squandering of public money and the failure to reduce the negative balance of the state budget. For these reasons, I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of motions nos. 274 (text 2) and 276, submitted by the M5S Group. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u56	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, someone may be surprised that the Senate has devoted a large part of yesterday's afternoon sitting and a large part of this morning's sitting to some issues, the main of which concerns a power station in a specific city. It would seem a local problem, but it is not, not only because it is part of all the problems related to the production of electricity, but above all because the central one supplies energy to 50% of Lazio and 4% of the energy produced at national level. The production of national electricity is not enough today to cover the needs, and therefore Italy, in addition to importing fossil products for the production of electricity, also imports the electricity already produced. Therefore, a sharp decrease or even the closure of a power plant is not a secondary or local issue, but it is a national issue. Having said that, I would like to refer to what Senator Pelino has pointed out very well in explaining motion 280. We have an approach to the issue of the Civitavecchia power plant and, in general, to the energy issues that take into account the different needs of electricity production. We need security of supply; we need to achieve environmental objectives, to protect people's health and the environment; we need to make our industry competitive. The protection of the health of the environment must be done with scientific observations, not of an episodic, anecdotal or impressionistic nature. We must take the utmost care not only to provide citizens with protection against possible pollutants or situations which are harmful to health, not only must we protect the hygiene of these products in itself, but we must also give certainties to the population. In fact, if a plant is safe, but it does not have this certification and there are scientific provisions that declare it safe, it results in a situation of economic depression throughout the area. We know that a less prosperous country is less protected by the environment. The protection of the environment entails costs that must be borne by the economy of that country. So, you can't see one thing separately from the other. This is why we call for monitoring not only of the sites around Civitavecchia but of all those situations where there can be danger to the health of residents, that is, in all areas where there is electricity production or of course other types of plants. In the light of this monitoring, specific decisions can be taken, certainly aimed at remedying situations of danger, but we cannot start with the intention to close a power plant or to greatly reduce its productivity, meanwhile due to the large amount of electricity it produces (repeat, 4% of national electricity production), then because 2 billion have been invested in this power plant. This plant involves about a thousand jobs and has significantly reduced emissions: we are talking about a reduction of up to 8% in emissions of dust and sulphur dioxide (lower by 50% than the limits laid down by law). Other measures have also been taken to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. In short, beyond seeing coal as something dirty and sooty, we must think that we are no longer in the 19th century Glasgow, when hundreds of people died because there were too many coal stoves around. The burning of coal today is something else: coal never comes into contact with air and therefore there are safety margins that in some cases are higher than some old power plants that work with gas. Therefore, we cannot have a preliminary approach to this type of electricity production. I would like to remind you that low competitiveness is the main problem that citizens are asking us to face, because this makes our country have much higher unemployment than other European countries. We know the records that have been reached lately: 13.6 percent of unemployed (almost 3.5 million), 46 percent of youth unemployment. Of course, one of the main factors determining them is the cost of electricity. Of the 28 countries of the European Union, only Cyprus and Malta have a higher price of electricity for industrial consumption than Italy, but Cyprus and Malta than the more than 500 million inhabitants of the European Union are little: more or less half of the inhabitants of my province, that of Turin. Without these two really abnormal countries, and certainly not great industrial powers to be considered competitors of Italy in this sense, the country that has the most expensive electricity for industrial use after Italy is Germany, which has a price lower than 15%; then there is Ireland, with a price lower than 19%, Slovakia of 23%, Spain of 27 percent, the United Kingdom of 30%, up to countries such as Romania, which even has a price of electricity lower than Italy. On the other hand, Romania is not just any country but the place where many Italian companies, particularly in my region, Piedmont, have moved. One of the reasons is this. Of course, there is the problem of labour costs, there are other issues, but the problem of electricity is extremely important. I read in some of the motions that call for a national energy plan. I would remind you that the so-called nuclear referendum, which was held recently and which many political forces represented in this House strongly wanted to approve, was not about the abolition of nuclear power in Italy (which had already been done with a legislative provision prior to the referendum), but it was precisely on a paragraph which provided for Italy to have a national energy plan. The referendum wanted to cancel it, then the political forces themselves say that an energy production plan is needed: this should be remembered. It is true: Italy needs an energy policy, but energy policy cannot be done with some propaganda or ideological approach. It should be borne in mind that Italy is a great country, with 60 million inhabitants who must be able to benefit from a reliable and durable electricity supply, and cannot embark on image adventures when the same cost billions and billions to the taxpayer: 9 billion per year cost incentives to alternative productions of electricity, including photovoltaics. An analysis must really be made to see if this money is not a huge unnecessary cost to the taxpayer, a cost which is paradoxically not calculated in the total tax burden, while it is in fact part of the tax burden. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u59	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Democratic Party will support Mr Puppato's first-signed motion, on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, with the two additions that we have wanted and which also meet two issues that have given rise to this debate, on the initiative in particular of the Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom, and which start from two local events: the first is that of the rigassifier of Trieste, on which we hope that the Government, obviously in full respect of the procedures of law and the autonomy of the authorized procedures, after evaluating the suspension, will also assess the withdrawal of the relative authorization, having quite clear - said it yesterday in a absolutely convincing way in general discussion - how our country still needs infrastructure, but infrastructures that are carried out in the full of a long-term strategy and in the full involvement of the local communities. The second integration meets the content of the original motion tabled by the colleagues of the Left Ecology and Freedom, then taken up by other groups, compared to the story of the energy pole of Civitavecchia on whose evolution we are all obviously concerned, both from the point of view of the environmental impact of that pole, but also with regard to the possible occupational repercussions. Apart from this, we have made an effort (we have tried and we hope to have succeeded) so that this opportunity, although starting from local events, would put the Senate and the Government - which obviously followed our debate - in order to hold a discussion and update the reflection (on which Parliament cannot call itself foreign) on the national energy strategy that our country needs. We are very clear that Italy is a country that needs to build a long-term strategy: the one adopted a year and a half ago in fact risks being overcome by events of an international character, but also by the results that are being achieved within our country. This does not mean that our concern is great when we look at the paradox of our country's energy: I use the same term that he used yesterday (also concerning mutual listening in this House, which often does not hurt, having the modesty to listen to all those who intervene, without allowing themselves to give lessons) my colleague Arrigoni della Lega about the paradox of Italy when we talk about energy. So far we have built up an energy system in which we have supported, with a huge effort from the point of view of consumer participation, both citizens and businesses, with huge resources allocated and today in bills, the affirmation of renewables. Also thanks to this and to the quota decrease of the consumption we have today an evident overcapacity of production in our country, that has led to stationary plants, especially those of old generation fed to fossil fuels. Despite this, paradoxically, we continue to import energy from abroad because it costs less, and the masterpiece of this paradox is that even today our families and our businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, pay energy at a higher cost than the European Union's equal references. I think it is time to dissolve this paradox in a national energy strategy, which will certainly have to deal with certain principles, the first of which is certainly the sustainability, first of all environmental and then economic choices that will have to be inspired by this strategy. A national energy strategy that puts our country in a position to have security of supply and therefore makes it not sensitive nor permeable to international crises (we have been talking for weeks about the Ukrainian affair) as well as the gift of a balanced energy mix. With regard to this last point - and I also address my colleagues in the Left Ecology and Freedom and in the 5 Star Movement - we are today aware that we are, in this historical phase, faced with a paradigm passage when we talk about energy. We say this by fully assuming the responsibility of being not only the most voted party in our country and expressing the most numerous parliamentary groups, but also of having the responsibility of government at this stage of our country. We have been accustomed for decades to the idea that energy in our country was derived from the acquisition of raw materials from abroad and therefore to base our system of energy production and energy consumption on fossils, with a spray of renewables and something else. Today, after what we have done in recent years, also thanks to the impulse of renewables (although, I think it is a common reflection, they cost us and cost us a lot), a change of paradigm is ripe. We can realistically imagine building from here to the next few years a national energy system with at the center the use of renewable sources and therefore the autonomy of our country. But certainly we cannot imagine that, alongside this change of paradigm, we can do without a share, even if increasingly marginal and residual, of fossil fuels that feed power stations and give security and stability to the system. Then there is what is perhaps the biggest bet we have been talking about these days in the Industry Commission with the contribution of the various Groups and the Government, namely the bet on energy efficiency and energy saving. Today renewable sources have therefore assumed a structural role in the energy mix of our Country; however, in order to be sufficient, they need to be accompanied towards the years that will come from a mix that includes a share of fossil resources, more and more marginal and residual, and from investments in infrastructures that put us in the conditions to guarantee security in the supplyings and autonomy to our Country. We have been interested in this and we have written this in our motion. Then there is the reference to the commitments to which the European Union calls us and which our country has accepted and which will be even more demanding from here to 2030 and then to 2050, towards an increase in renewable sources and energy efficiency, towards a contribution of our country to the reduction of emissions that intervene on the so-called greenhouse effect, in the consumption both civil and industrial - I would add - and in the habits of all of us. Of course, today the challenge is also to change the industrial policy of our country. We often talk about energy as if it were something else than a centrality to which the challenge of international competition calls us, while energy is one of the founding elements of international competition, but it can also redirect national industrial policy towards green, compatible and sustainable productions, making efficiency objectives and saving a great opportunity to strengthen a national industrial chain that already exists. Of course, this must also be dealt with realistically, with the need for infrastructure to be increasingly sound. We do not want to build an indefinite and random number of regasifiers: there are already three. Probably our country, with a reasonable and responsible strategy in mind, needs another or two more. They must be carried out in full respect of environmental and health issues and with the involvement of local communities. We hope that the pipelines we are talking about will be made, from the TAP to South Stream, because they can offer our country greater autonomy. I say to everyone in a very serene and frank way that there must be less ideology. Having listened to the reasons of others, let us listen to one another. I really find it odd that a battle is being waged against a regasifier, which is essentially a zero-emission plant, and at the same time a battle to close coal-fired power stations. Of the two: we have to make a choice that goes in one of these two directions, and the choice must be for less fossils, and certainly less coal, in the coming years, in my and our opinion. Less ideologism on infrastructure, but rather, as other colleagues said yesterday, including Senator Sonego, we need a great effort from our country, which can make energy one of the mechanisms on which to build a new industrial policy and a new ability to attract investment and to be increasingly strategically fundamental in the Mediterranean and Europe. Europe will also have to do so, because time is now ripe (we hope that the government, in the next European Semester leading Italy, will play an important role) for the challenge of a great common energy strategy of the European Union, based on infrastructure but shared choices. [[Call the president back.]] I'll finish, ma'am. These are the cornerstones on which to base a renewed national energy strategy. We think we have contributed to an important debate between yesterday and today in the Senate, we have done so by listening to others and I hope that listening is a way in which we share choices that are also important for the country. I would perhaps leave aside the scum and the jokes: this is a fundamental theme for the future of our country. The Democratic Party, with its own motion, shared, elaborated and signed together with the majority that supports the Government, intends to make its contribution and will support the motion, even with the consent of the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u60	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 18 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u63	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to ask that we vote separately on motion No 18 (text 2) because the commitments contained in the motion we are about to vote on are practically similar to those contained in the first-signed motion by Senator Puppato. I would also like to point out that, speaking of the regasifier of Trieste, the scheme of decree to revoke this plant had already been approved by Minister Orlando, then passed to the Minister of Cultural Heritage, so the Government has changed and now we have returned again to the Minister of the Environment, so there is not even to be invited to consider the opportunity, unless the Government has radically changed position. [[Applause from Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u66	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we believe that motions have meaning and balance in their integrity, and therefore we are opposed to a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u67	As there are objections, I shall put to the vote the request for a split vote. It's not approved. We shall proceed to the vote on motion No 18 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 18 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 133 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 133 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 274 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 274 (text 2), tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. Senator Cioffi, do you confirm that you do not accept the requests for amendment of motion 276? CIOFFI (M5S). I confirm that, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 276. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of motion No 276, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 277 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 277 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 279 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 279 (text 2), tabled by Senator Puppato and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 18 (text 2), 133 (text 2), 274 (text 2), 276, 277, 279 and 280 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 280. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Pelino and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on motion 280. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u68	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00125, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators, and 1-00213, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on the MUOS satellite telecommunications system. I remember that during the afternoon session on February 13, the presenters illustrated the motions. I would like to point out to all my fellow Members who are interested in the debate on the motions for resolutions that the closure of the work of today's afternoon Assembly is scheduled for 2 p.m. and that next week there will be no follow-up to the unfinished topics. Therefore, if we want to end and get to the vote, we must all adjust to the times. Senator Crosio has the floor to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u69	Mr President, you have made it very clear, so it will be my concern to keep the time down. I would like to make some general comments before we go into the substance of the agenda. Today we talk about the Region of Sicily, but unfortunately not from the point of view of tourism, or better the hamlet-environmental values of this beautiful Region. We will not therefore talk about the enhancement of tourism in Sicily. Motions have been presented and we are chasing the possibility of remedying a situation that has some critical issues in Sicily, as often happens, but not because we talk about Sicily, but because in our country certain choices and certain decisions are taken too often in an uncompromising way. We speak in this case of a work - as has already been explained in a comprehensive way in the illustration of the motions - that sees involved, in addition to the Government and the American Navy, also our Government. The criticality of this work also stems from the fact that its implementation has been carried out in spite of all the rules and rules as they concern the site and infrastructure of strategic military interest of NATO and, in particular, of the American Government. What leaves us a little puzzled is that we arrive today, when the work, in fact, is already finished (it is not operational, but physically it is finished), to chase again problems of electromagnetism and issues of environmental impact. The question arises spontaneously: in addition to the spontaneous, natural committees that have been formed on the territory, the local administrators and the local politics perhaps some questions had to ask it, since only now they come to try to remedy and find solutions to this problem. This is said by one who perhaps comes from the most extreme point compared to the Region of Sicily; in fact, I come from a territory in which, as in the Region of Sicily, we make the environmental, landscape and natural beauty one of the fundamental and priority elements regarding our tourism, which as such must be safeguarded. I did an examination of conscience, and let me say that if something like this had happened in my area, perhaps we would have tried to remedy it. Today, however, we are chasing this situation, so we are perplexed by the behaviour of local administrators. However, what leaves us even more perplexed is the statement by Crocetta who, at the hearing, says blissfully that on this issue he had to bend to the strong powers. That Crocetta could be folded, we have no doubt, but to the strong powers? [[Laughter]] I do not see where the cause of laughter lies, ladies and gentlemen, it is a serious matter. This statement leaves us very perplexed. The position of our movement is very clear on this point. We call on the government to make a clear commitment on two issues. Firstly, the health of the inhabitants must be absolutely guaranteed throughout this operation, which perhaps should have been considered earlier. It is useless, in fact, that the American ambassador fills his mouth saying that they will help us monitor electromagnetic issues: if they had thought about it before, it would have been smarter. Unfortunately, we are always chasing solutions to this situation. Therefore, a first commitment that we ask the Government is that this whole operation cannot ignore the protection from the country-environmental point of view of the territory and, in particular, from the health point of view of the resident populations. Secondly, let us consider that we are talking about a very advanced technology, almost experimental in its use, and that this poor Sicily, in addition to being damaged from an environmental point of view, at this moment also addresses the serious problem of illegal immigration and landings, which really create difficulties. The problem is also to manage this whole system. We are using important resources to try to remedy this. I do not go into the merits of the ways in which we are doing it: I am interested, at this moment, in the economic question, in the commitment of our country and its quality in monitoring the Sicily Canal. It seems to us, therefore, quite natural that this technology, which, in fact, is a technology that will be used in wartime, can also have its value in peacetime. In fact, one of the essential components of this technology is the AGS (alliance ground surveillance), which is a system that will allow NATO to ensure high-altitude monitoring of large areas of territory and for long periods of time, with the use of drones capable of operating in all conditions of time. The commitment that we then ask the Government (and I address the Undersecretary) is that, if this work has to be done, and will have all the conditions, it is also used for a purpose in time of peace, so as to save, if possible, resources for our country, since we employ for this task the Navy, the Coast Guard and those who have more, more put. Among other things, since in times of bad weather and big sea it is hard to operate on the Sicily Canal, we are certain that, with the use of the AGS (which is an integral part of this MUOS system), we will obtain a saving and also the guarantee, certainly stronger, that the monitoring of the Sicily Canal is done in a more scientific way. Moreover, from a technical point of view, and for those who are familiar with these technologies, let me say that we are not talking, in this case, about the usual drones that travel at an average altitude of between 500 and 1,500 meters and could create phonic pollution: we are talking about a new generation of drones, which travel at much higher altitudes, as this technology allows it. So, Mr Undersecretary, it does not seem to us outside the world to ask that this technology be used not only for war purposes, if necessary (because this is the finalization of the MUOS, be it clear), but can also be used in peacetime: to save money and, among other things, to involve Europe as a whole in this important operation. This agenda will certainly give the government the strength to go to the appropriate forums to negotiate this kind of agreement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u70	As Senator Scilipoti, the only signatory to the G2 agenda, is not present in the Chamber, this agenda has fallen. I note that the G3 agenda has been presented, signed by Senator Granaiola and Senator Di Biagio, whose text is being distributed. I therefore give the floor to Senator Granaiola to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u71	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this agenda stems from a resolution adopted by the Health and Environment Commissions and marks a point of arrival of a long journey to clarify a complex affair which has been going on for a long time, perhaps too long, and which has created and is creating anguish and concern among the people of the territory of Niscemi. It was necessary to address it as a Parliament and I thank the Presidents of the two Commissions for allowing it. The path taken has been long and difficult, but it has allowed us to know the facts and understand the anxieties of the population, fruit of the fear for the potential biological damage caused by the current installations of NRTF8, an important telecommunications plant composed of 44 antennas, of which 21 operating (20 in high frequency for surface communications and one in low frequency for communications under the surface of the sea), and from the future ones, which include the Mobile User Objective System (the MUOS), a military system of satellite communications at the highest frequency, composed of 4 satellites and 4 earth stations, one of which in the phase of realization in Niscemi, in the province of Caltanissetta, within the natural reserve Sughereta. The Niscemi plant will consist of 3 pivoting parabolic antennas, of diameter equal to 18.4 meters, and two 149 meters high helical antennas. How can we fail to understand the anxieties of the population, which, in the face of all this, would have been entitled to timely, clear and comprehensive information, which unfortunately did not happen, on the contrary, everything has been said? The hearings held on the spot and in the Senate helped us to put together a very varied picture, also characterized by disinformation and approximation. The story, which you will find detailed on the agenda, stems from a bilateral agreement between USA and Italy of 2001, ratified in 2006, and from an installation authorization measure issued by the Regional Department of Sicily, following a special Conference of Services of 9 September 2008. On 1 June 2011, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Ministry of Defence and the Region of Sicily, with which the parties undertake, among other things, to ensure that the installation of the MUOS system takes place in the indispensable respect of the protection of the health of the population and the protection of the environment. After that date, there was a whole series of authorization and withdrawal measures, deductions and counter-deductions of the institutions and institutions involved, which fueled the concerns of the population not only of the Niscemi area, but of the whole island, and which gave rise to a great movement to which there was a large participation. The same report of the Higher Institute of Health, carried out in collaboration with the World Health Organisation and ISPRA, at the request of the Ministry of Health, presented on 5 September 2013, in its conclusions called for special attention and caution to be given to the establishment of an epidemiological surveillance system for the health of persons residing in Niscemi. These observations and critical considerations expressed by the experts appointed by the Region during the hearings held in the Senate, as well as the extensive documentation submitted by the auditors and examined in the Commission, led us to submit a resolution to the Commission and then this agenda in the Chamber, which contained those essential points and the objectives achievable thanks to the commitment of the three competent Ministries (Health, Environment and Defence). A measure that perhaps will not be completely decisive for the serenity of the population, but that contains in the device the following firm points, in my opinion very important. First: correct and timely information, which responds systematically, transparently and accurately to the serious concerns and fears generated by the construction of the MUOS and expressed by the citizens. We believe that a health impact assessment, both physical and psychological, both current and future, is necessary in any policy area that is intended to address, from health to military, from environmental to social. Secondly, we ask the Government to respect and implement the Memorandum of Understanding of 1 June 2011 between the Ministry of Defence and the Region of Sicily, especially in the part that concerns the following commitments: the reduction of radio frequency emissions thanks to the installation of an underground transmission system with optical fibers, to mitigate the exposure to electromagnetic fields generated by the already existing antennas; the installation of control units for the continuous monitoring of electromagnetic fields; the timely removal of disused antennas. Another important point is a systematic programme which includes, inter alia, monitoring and characterising the emissions of the MUOS plant, environmental campaigns to measure electromagnetic fields from radio frequencies in the air, the application of modelling methods useful in the future to help produce knowledge on the effects of health, including with the involvement of competent and autonomous bodies and institutions. It is also requested to provide for compensatory measures if material and intangible damage to the local population is found objectively attributable to MUOS; and, again, support for the promotion of local agricultural products, both at national and international level. The agenda then commits the Government to assess whether the monitoring and prevention of environmental and health risks should also be carried out with the use of the local detachment of volunteers of the fire department. Above all, however, as provided for in the 2011 agreement, the immediate interruption of the system is called for where monitoring reveals harmful results for the population; moreover, the commitment to submit to Parliament an annual summary, but comprehensive, report of the actions carried out and the path taken in compliance with the provisions of this agenda. I hope that this agenda will be widely shared and approved. I do not know if it will be able to restore total tranquility to the population of Niscemi and Sicily as a whole, but surely it is a demonstration of attention and interest for the health of citizens and the protection of the environment and is a first step to start a rigorous path of research on the topic of electromagnetic pollution, which certainly requires long times but also great seriousness, competence and reliability. Let me add that this is also an act which is due to a population and territory, already affected by the pollution of the petrochemical plant in Gela and many other problems, which this Parliament will continue to follow with the utmost attention in its respective Commissions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u72	I declare the debate open. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 July 2013, the Undersecretary for Defence, Gioacchino Alfano, replied to Senator Padua's question about the installation of a MUOS station in the Municipality of Niscemi, stating that it was part of the mutual assistance in the field of defence sanctioned by the London Convention between NATO member countries and ratified by Law No 1335 of 1955. The Secretary said that there is a specific Italian interest in its implementation because it will represent, if completed, a strategic communication system that the National Armed Forces will also be able to use. However, he pointed out that: The transmissive system can only be implemented in compliance with the health of the citizens and the laws that protect it. I remind you all that the Higher Institute of Health, invested by the Government, has set up a special working group, with the participation of representatives of the Region, to verify the electromagnetic compatibility of the system with the health of the local population. According to the words of the Undersecretary, the Ministry of Defence, which has decided not to take an active part in the work in order not to compromise, even potentially, the third party, has taken every initiative to facilitate the work of the commission charged by the Government and the Region for the verification of the impact on the environment and on the health of the population of the work in progress. In October last year, she who today is the Minister for Defence, Roberta Pinotti, reiterated the position of the Dicastery on the direct interest in the realization of the work. The current Minister has pointed out, in fact, that the only objective is to achieve the transmissive system only and exclusively in compliance with the health of the citizens and the laws that protect it. With regard to the latter interest, which is right as well as primary value to be protected, I can only recall a few words spoken by the current Governor of the Sicilian Region, in clear contradiction, in short, depending on the interests he intended to guarantee. Rosario Crocetta, to explain the reasons on which he decided to block the work on MUOS, on January 13, 2013, in the newspaper "Il Manifesto" wrote: The Sicilian Region has not entered into the substance of international agreements, but by suspending the works of the plant it has exercised only its prerogatives of law in environmental matters, aimed at protecting the fundamental right to health of citizens; the prevailing right over any international agreement. He added: "No agreement, I insist, can be signed by violating the fundamental rights of persons." What disappoints the attitude of the current President is that he ignored the opinions of many experts of national fame and not only. In fact, the experts - apart from having repeatedly reiterated that biological effects on human beings, flora and fauna cannot be excluded in a territory not limited only to the town of Niscemi - have found above all that it is often the direct exposure to the main beam, following a malfunction or a pointing error, that can cause serious and permanent damage to the people. They shudder, therefore, the health effects that prolonged exposure to electromagnetic fields of this intensity could cause. Among these we cannot but mention tumors, in particular of the hemolinfatic system, leukemias, hyperthermia with consequent necrosis of the tissues and reduction of fertility. If it is true, then, that the people most exposed to these risks would be children and the elderly, I wonder how you can put the interests of the American Navy first and forget the citizens who may have also voted for you. Perhaps not everyone knows that the MUOS could be built somewhere else and it is not by chance that the other installations are located in deserted places or in any case far from the inhabited places. The costs would probably rise, something little for the U.S. defence budget. Therefore the Italian administration, as always prone to American diktats, has not expressed any objection, with the consequence that the operation has returned to a technological adaptation of a plant already present for years and therefore in line with the Treaty in force on the bases. In all this, in addition to not having to diminish the fear of the inhabitants for possible attacks coming not from other states capable of threatening the US bases, but from terrorist organizations, the sacred right to health of these citizens must not be put in the sedan. Do you, by any chance, want to spot this crime? Remodulate the words of Crocetta not to fill my mouth, but because in Niscemi I was there and I saw the gaze of those mothers who struggle for their children, and as Sicilian I stand on the side of those who are struggling so that the Sicilian territory does not really become a cemetery of living dead! I therefore invite you to vote yes to the motion of the 5 Star Movement. Thank you will be thousands of families who will finally realize that you too have a heart and a head, yes, that head capable of voting in dissent from the commands of your political leaders! Don't be populists, but at least for once be on the side of the people! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to thank Senators Di Biagio and Granaiola for the dedication and sensitivity they have shown during these weeks of work and for the efforts they have made to set an agenda for meeting the concerns of the population with the reasons of state in an issue which, however, as usual, denounces the inadequacy of the Italian governments. It is true, in fact, that the agenda G3 has adopted some requests, for example when it commits the Government to respond systematically, transparently and accurately to the serious perplexities arising during the construction of the MUOS and manifested by the citizens, conveying correct information; or when it provides for the timely removal of disused antennas, favouring alternative and innovative transmission technologies and such as to reduce consumption, and whatever else, or when it still provides that the costs for the services of volunteers of the Fire Department are charged to the person responsible for the radio transmission station in the framework of a specific conventional act: in all these cases, certainly, there has been an effort by the presenters of that order of the day to acquire some requests advanced also from us. Despite this, however, the agenda is also insufficient when, in a general way, it talks about appropriate modelling methods in order to reliably estimate the levels of exposure of the population in time and space, or when it generically indicates autonomous institutions and institutions to be involved to ensure the success of the monitoring programme. We know instead that the simple adoption of a system of continuous monitoring of the emission limits provided for by the law does not guarantee any tranquility, since this would mean to give the green light to the operation of the MUOS and then, ex post, evaluate its effects. That is why, in appreciating the efforts of the rapporteurs, and of course of the Commission, we can only stigmatize the inadequacy of the Italian governments, including the current one, because, dear Secretary, the damage already exists. These are medical damage, as has been pointed out also by some other colleague and as you know who went to Caltanissetta to talk to the mothers of children. There is a collective psychosis: there have been anxiety and depression with serious symptoms already evaluable, related to insomnia, headaches and so on. However, this anxiety has already pervaded the population, and this is not indicative of the fact that there is nothing, but of the fact that there is already a confirmed disease. In addition, as can be seen from the report of the Higher Institute of Health, although there is no significant increase in the mortality rate in the population compared to regional data, there is however a significant increase in some pathologies resulting in hospitalization: malignant liver tumors, multiple myeloma, diseases to the central nervous system, increased respiratory system diseases and the lymphatic system. Can we say that this increase in pathologies has been linked to existing antennas since 1991 (attention, the MUOS system still needs to be activated, but the antennas have been present since 1991, i.e. for over twenty years)? Probably not. Is it related to the presence of gela's petrochemical? Probably. Or is it linked to the cumulative effect of both pollutants? And what would happen when MUOS antennas were also activated? That's the problem. It is on this point that a serious government should clarify and give concrete answers, intervening on the population with a serious programme of involvement and information. A serious government should intervene on the petrochemical of Gela, where there is a refinery and a thermoelectric power plant powered by pet coke. It should therefore be essential to set up a study shared with ISPRA, ISS, ARPA, the University of Turin (in the person of Professor Zucchetti) and the University of Rome (in the person of Professor D'Amore). How is it done when a population is alarmed and aware of the studies carried out so far on electromagnetic fields? As Professor Zucchetti has denounced and admitted by ISPRA itself, there are conflicting data and, in conclusion, the following issues remain open and which do not allow definitive evaluations: 1) Predictive evaluations in the near field of the EMC (electromagnetic fields) produced by the MUOS antennas according to the methods provided for by the IEC standards; 2) Predictive Near Field Assessment of the EMC produced by the low frequency antenna and other NRTF antennas. In essence, both ISPRA and the University of Turin attest to the fact that these problems remain open. Therefore, it has been admitted that there is no predictive prediction model, the only one required by the legislation, and that it does not actually exist. This is the problem, because while on the agenda of Senators Granaiola and Di Biagio you imagine starting the MUOS system and then after (who knows after how many years of possible monitoring) you will be able to be aware of the real risks, the scientific and military bodies have said instead that the only valid method is the prediction model, but that does not exist. It is here that there is superficiality! 12.15 p.m. (Follows COMPAGNONE). For this reason, in the light of all this, on the agenda of the G4, which we intend to present, we ask, first of all, the establishment of a table, with all the actors involved, ISPRA, the ISS, ARPA, the University of Turin and the University of Rome (I remember that the universities have been identified by the Region of Sicily in representation of the population), which can define a methodology shared by everyone and arrive at a shared result and therefore to correct information and subsequent actions. This is a matter of common sense: first, we share the methodology and then, consequently, it is automatic that we will share the findings and then the actions to be taken. It is clear at that point that, if the risk of harm to the population is demonstrated and acclaimed, the MUOS system will not be activated; On the other hand, if this does not result, then the system is activated and monitored over time. But you can't wait to monitor it and then stop it in years, when the damage will already be even greater than those that are already there and that are acclaimed. It is also asked: an adequate intervention on the population to convey adequate information, psychological and medical assistance, in order to respond to the diseases already claimed, that are already there. The state must be present (this is where the seriousness of a state is demonstrated: when it goes there with its organs and reassures the population, it compares with the population). Still, the immediate dismantling of existing antennas is called for, not in operation (today 23 out of 44). And then, concrete modernization actions on the petrochemical plant in Gela: a serious government cannot ignore anything. With regard to compensation, in the G3 agenda, the forecast of any compensatory measures, which are not clearly specified (therefore very superficially), is made dependent on any material and intangible damage to the population. We believe, however, as we have shown, that the damage already exists, on health, on agricultural production - it is established - and on the environment. I would like to remind everyone that the MUOS insists on a nature reserve, so the damage to the environment has already been done, so we believe that compensation is already due only for this. We also do not think that we can do the usual welfare with which it has always been the south of Italy. We have proposed the realization of something serious, important: a research centre of excellence that can finally study electromagnetic fields and their effects on populations. Sicily, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be just the land of petrochemicals, refineries, waste-to-energy, regasifiers and all the filth of this world, with the pseudomirage of a hypothetical development that has not been and will never be, except for the pockets of those who make these investments and who are trying and will determine the transformation of a beautiful land into a garbage can. [[Applause from Senators Scavone and Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u77	Mr President, what comes to this House today with the debate on these motions is a long, complex and complex affair, which has three fundamental critical points, the first of which concerns the illegality of the plant for violating our rules. As has already been mentioned, the area insists on a nature reserve, while the procedure for authorising the installation is unlawful. We recall that the revocation of the authorization for the execution of the plant was considered legitimate, and had been rejected by the TAR Sicily the appeal lodged against the revocation, with important reasons, related both to the merit of the matter, and therefore to the legitimacy of the revocation, and to the protection of the health of the citizens. However, there is another problem: the one on which the plant insists is an area with high environmental risk, an area that must be reclaimed and that, according to our legislation, cannot be burdened with risky activities like these, since it is necessary a wide network of monitoring, an intervention of the ARPA, and the Ministry of Health. We are burdening the people of Niscemi and neighbouring municipalities with further risks, in addition to those to which they are already subjected, and this is unlawful for our legislation. We have talked about health protection (we have already said this in previous speeches, and I am not extending it), but there is a third fundamental element: the whole procedure that has led to the construction of this military installation, which is not NATO - let us remember - but is of the armed forces of the United States, in particular of the Navy, has seen the complete removal of Parliament and its constitutionally recognized functions: there has been no parliamentary passage during the evaluation of the opportunity of granting a piece of the territory of our country to a foreign military armed force. Therefore, the transfer of a part of our territory took place without any parliamentary passage and was authorized in great secrecy by previous governments, of which some of the senators intervened were great supporters: now they pretend to fall from the clouds and realize that there are problems, while earlier they supported these agreements. We have another problem: this system, ladies and gentlemen, serves in particular - as has been mentioned - to allow the use of drones, which, as we know, are vehicles, controlled remotely through this satellite system, which are regularly used by the United States of America in war zones, but not only: they are also used fluently for targeted murders. Therefore, the profile is as follows: in the event of an act of war of the United States of America, we will not be able to intervene as has been done in the past when Italy has not granted the use of the bases for war actions, because this is a system that travels remotely. They are broadcasts that we have no control over, and we cannot ask for their shutdown in the event of war. But there is also the other profile: we will be considered complicit in acts of war carried out through these systems and through these drones, accomplices also of the targeted murders that are carried out with these weapons, of which even at the UN level we are talking about asking for a ban. While the UN calls for these systems to be banned, what do we do? We authorize, in violation of all legal and even constitutional norms, the installation in Sicily of a fundamental element of these systems. We do not want to be called accomplices tomorrow in acts of war or, worse still, in acts of murder involving the use of these weapon systems. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u78	I would like to inform you that the G4 agenda has been presented, signed by Senator Compagnone, who is in distribution. The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and agendas that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u79	Mr President, I will deal with the motions in a joint way, then distinguish the opinions, because the arguments and questions often coincide, and I will, in response to your invitation, try to be on time and to make a mediation between the times we have and the reasons put forward. I would like to start with the motion by Senator De Petris, No 213, where, at the end of a complex and very detailed discussion of the argument, it is stated that the Minister of Defence pro tempore, Mario Mauro, would have replied in a deliberately inaccurate manner to a parliamentary question by Mr Palazzotto, because he would not have provided, to them, justified justification for the legitimacy to act of the Defense and above all because he would have said that the Ministry acted for an interest precisely because it was a strategic work for Italy. The found inaccuracies, which have been cited by the proposing senators, would confirm the fact that the Ministry of Defence has signed and applied illegitimate bilateral agreements because they are formalized outside the procedures governed by Articles 80 and 87 of the Constitution. It is necessary to consider these matters in order to assess the merits of the questions raised by this Act of Guideline. In the preamble, it seems useful to specify that all the elements envisaged are also contained in the recourse to the TAR Sicilia, presented in October 2013. In fact, the appeal places particular emphasis on the supposed unconstitutionality of the agreements with the Americans, on the alleged war destination of the MUOS and on the alleged destination of the U.S. exclusive use of the Niscemi base. Well, the TAR, which is defined as rigorous given the judgment already issued in 2013, proved to be in favour of the applicants and accepted the requests of the applicants but only for the purpose of fixing the hearing of merit and without suspension of the effects of the contested measure. It will then be that judge who finds, in the full exercise of his judicial power, whether or not the act of public administration has been in conformity with the rules in force, first of all the Constitution. However, it is comforting that he has not spoken in the precautionary judgment. Indeed, the TAR ruled out that there were at least manifest errors. So clearly, the delicacy of the matter now makes it opportune to examine the international agreements governing the military alliance between Italy and the United States. The two countries are bound by the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Washington on 4 April 1949 and ratified on 1 August of the same year. It lays down, inter alia, the obligation of mutual assistance between the parties in order to maintain and develop the individual and collective capacity to resist an armed attack. It is with all the evidence of an obligation of exquisitely defensive assistance. In implementation of the alliance pact NATO was formed and the countries that acceded to it have signed a special treaty to regulate the legal status of their Armed Forces when they are hosted in the territory of an ally. This is the Convention between the States participating in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Statute of their Armed Forces, commonly called NATO-SOFA, signed in London on 19 June 1951 and ratified on 30 November 1955. In bilateral relations, Italy and the United States signed an intergovernmental agreement to regulate the legal status of the Allied bases on Italian territory, commonly called BIA, signed in Rome on 20 October 1954. As stated in the preamble to the Treaty, the existence of the Allied bases is founded, justified and aimed at the implementation of the aforementioned principle of mutual military assistance, as set out in Article 3 of the Treaty itself, not therefore at the own and exclusive needs of the Americans. The BIA is still covered by secrecy rankings. The latter, in 1995, was supplemented by a further technical agreement not covered by secrecy, commonly called Shell Agreement, signed in Rome on 2 February 1995. Article 1 of that memorandum provides that cooperation for common defence shall take place bilaterally and within the limits of the NATO Treaty. In terms of international agreements, it should be pointed out that the Niscemi website is, as far as the intended use is concerned, an installation not exclusively of the United States, but of the allies. It is governed by the BIA which draws its foundation from Article 3 of the North Atlantic Treaty and from the Shell Agreement itself which, in Article 1, confirms the obligation of bilateral military cooperation between Italy and the USA in the context of the broader principle of assistance between NATO countries. The destination of use of the Niscemi site, however, for allied needs, is confirmed by the report with which it was granted in use on 30 March 1987 to the Allied representatives, from which it is clear that the site in question is intended for the TLC3-NATO needs. In particular, the Ministry's interest in the construction of the MUOS, which is not a weapon system, stems from the fact that it will represent, once completed, a strategic communication system that will also be used by the Italian Armed Forces, in implementation of the frequently cited principle of mutual assistance. This is the general interest. On the other hand, regarding the legitimacy to act in court, it is announced that the Defense is owner of the works destined for national defense, as well as of the areas in which they insist and will be realized. The document on which the activation of this infrastructure is based is the already mentioned BIA, which governs the concession and the use of infrastructures in Italy in support of the US Armed Forces. This agreement, as far as is possible here, provides that properties built with American or Italian-American funds on land made available by the Italian Government, become the property of the Italian State. This is a clear provision that must be linked to the general institute of access to civil law, an instrument for the purchase of property on an original basis governed by Articles 934 et seq. of the Civil Code. In particular, through the BIA, Italy and the United States of America have applied the principle of law laid down in Article 936 of the Civil Code, with the consequent instant purchase of the property of the works by the owner of the fund and the right of the manufacturer to use them and to be recognized a consideration for the value added to the fund. The subsequent Memorandum of Understanding, already defined as Shell Agreement, reaffirms and confirms its willingness to act in accordance with the Treaties and bilateral agreements, including the bilateral agreement between Italy and America, concluded on 20 October 1954. Consistently with the above-mentioned normative sources of international law of conventional matrix, the decree of the President of the Republic of 19 April 2005, n.170, the Regulation concerning the discipline of the activities of the Military Genio, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 7-bis of the law 11 February 1994, n. 19th, states that: the realization of infrastructures on the national territory financed by Allied countries is governed by appropriate memorandum of understanding. The memorandum referred to is precisely the BIA of 20 October 1954 and the Shell Agreement of 2 February 1995. It is also specified that for the constructions that will not be carried out with Italian public funds will be applicable only the Italian laws of general character that govern the constructions and not those that govern and control the public expenses. In concrete terms, the tendering procedures and the rules for the performance of the contract are directly managed by the United States, while compliance with the regulations on safety at work, the use and disposal of hazardous materials, harmful emissions, the static nature of the works, the limits to harmful emissions and anything else is linked to the application of the legislation in force in Italy. Precisely for this reason the Italian Minister of Defence has always demanded from the Allied authorities, as it was right that it were, to receive the related projects in order to assess their full compatibility and compliance with the Italian technical regulations. It should be pointed out in this regard that it is not true that there is no bilateral agreement that allows our country to take advantage of American satellite communications systems, on the contrary: the Italian Minister of Defence and the US Department of Defence signed a technical agreement, which was signed on 6 November 2006, which provides for the mutual exchange of services and support in satellite communications. Under this agreement, the Italian Armed Forces will be able to use the satellite communications established via MUOS to support their operations especially in areas not covered by their military satellite structures. It is therefore clear that MUOS is an installation of primary strategic interest also for the Italian Armed Forces. Turning now to examine the concept of strategic work for Italy, it is noted that the area affected by the works is, as seen, military property. Therefore, the works in question, which constitute works intended for national defence, do not require any permission to build or concession building according to the common name (because today they do not all define themselves as so). According to a consolidated legal guideline, in fact, all the works carried out within bases, installations or military installations, are considered military infrastructures, therefore works destined for national defense, with the consequence, among other things, that they are not subject to the request for granting of building concessions (there are several judgments of the Council of State that confirm it). Defense needs that are obviously not those necessary in case of war, but more generally are all those aimed at ensuring the external and internal security of the State, and this regardless of the person who carries out the work (Ministry of Defense or other administration). The nature and purpose of the installation makes it impossible for MUOS to ignore the fact that it is part of the works intended for military defence. The confirmation is also drawn from article 2, paragraph 9, of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic n. 170 of 2005, according to which the infrastructures for military defense are defined permanent and temporary installations related to specific deployment requirements, destined to the operational, training and logistic support of military departments operating both inside and outside the national territory. In addition, Article 231 of Legislative Decree No. 66 of 2010 (military order code) reads as follows: ==References====External links==* Official website The following Article 233 provides: For urban and environmental purposes, the following categories of infrastructure are intended for national defence. It follows a list of different categories, including those of interest to us are land, sea and air space control structures, signals and aids to maritime and air navigation, telecommunication and alarm systems structures, activities financed by NATO common funds and by allies on national territory. The examination of these provisions and the totally exceptional regime enjoyed by military installations intended for national defence make it clear that, in this case, a public work has been contracted for military defence within the military property, in turn located within a nature reserve subsequently established. It should be borne in mind that the Government, on the complex issue of the installation of a satellite communication system called MUOS in the Municipality of Niscemi, has already had the opportunity to report in Parliament, as has also been mentioned in the illustration of the motions, in response to various acts of inspection union. On these occasions, however, it was pointed out that the main objective of defence was to achieve the transmissive system only and exclusively in compliance with the health of the citizens and the laws that protect it. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! ALFANO Gioacchino, State Secretary for Defence. Having said that, as far as this motion is concerned, the opinion on the commitment that has been presented is against it. With regard to Senator Santangelo's motion No 125 and other senators, which includes two commitments, in addition to the arguments I have already expressed and which can also be used to evaluate this motion, it is noted that, on 11 March 2013, a meeting had been held (referring to the meeting at the Council of Ministers) chaired by the same President of the Council, in which it was agreed to entrust to an independent technical body, in particular the Higher Institute of Health, an in-depth study, to introduce monitoring instruments and to suspend the installation of parables pending the results of the study. The Higher Institute of Health, invested by the Government, had set up a special working group, with the participation of representatives of the Region, to verify the electromagnetic compatibility of the system on the health of the local population. The Defense took active part in the work of the aforementioned group in the preliminary phase, but - as the senator said - in order not to compromise the outcome of this work, it took the choice not to participate actively, then, in the technical body. For the sake of clarity of the exhibition, it is recalled that the Higher Institute of Health has completed its work by delivering a comprehensive study showing that there are no health risks. On this very basis, the Sicilian Region has revoked the measures previously adopted and the works are resumed. Since these withdrawals have been removed by the regional authorities themselves, the activities for the installation of the monitoring network have again been started, with the direct involvement of the ARPA of Sicily, which also indicated the places where to place the detection units. Mr President, with regard to this motion, with the up-to-date history of the meeting with the President of the Council of Ministers of 2013, the Government takes the opposite view of the first commitment, since, as mentioned above, the Higher Institute of Health has excluded the existence of health hazards and since the activities for the installation of the continuous monitoring network have already begun, with a view to having a continuous flow of information on any dangers arising from electromagnetic emissions. The Government also takes the view that the second commitment is contrary, since it does not correspond to the fact, as highlighted in the undertaking, according to which the TAR, by its order, would have ordered the suspension of the work. The work, in fact, was already suspended due to the withdrawal of authorisations, adopted by the Region of Sicily and the TAR considered not to suspend such revocation. Nevertheless, as is well known, the revocation has in turn been revoked by the same Region, for which the work is resumed, no longer having the reasons for their completion. Mr President, these are the opinions on the two motions. I have not yet read the agenda just deposited by Senator Companione and I reserve the right to evaluate it. Mr President, the agenda signed by Senator Bitonci and other senators, as presented by Senator Crosio, includes two commitments. The Government accepts the first commitment: we are in favour and, among other things, these are issues that I have made clear in my report on motions. As for the second commitment, we accept all the finalizations that the commitment foresees (enhancing the effectiveness of the activities of contrast to the flow of migrants); however, we talk about this using the MUOS system, which however is not a radar system and cannot be used for surveillance. Therefore, in fact, although the aim is acceptable, we cannot accept the second commitment, because MUOS cannot be used for these activities. The government then accepts the agenda G3, signed by Senators Granaiola and Di Biagio.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u80	I would ask the Government whether it is already able to give its opinion on the G4 agenda or whether it needs a short suspension to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u81	Yes, Mr President, I would ask you to suspend the work briefly so that we can read the text of the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u82	I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m. and resumed at 12.53 p.m.) The session is resumed. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u83	Mr President, the next item is the G4 item on the agenda. The Government's opinion is in favour of the first, provided that the words "even in order to remove the existential damage already determined in terms of collective psychosis" are expunged, because, if we accept a damage already determined, it means that we recognize its existence. Instead, despite the complex studies that are taking place, this damage has never been objectively determined. The opinion was in favour of the second commitment. On the third commitment, the opinion is opposed, because we are asking for a study to be carried out since 1991, when in fact there are already several studies, over a much longer period. On the other commitments (the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh) the Government's opinion is in favour, however, pointing out that the sixth commitment concerns a matter which is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u84	Do you agree with the reformulation of the agenda proposed by the Government, Senator Compagnone?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u85	Rewording in what sense? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Undersecretary Alfano asks to eliminate, in the first commitment, the words "also in order to remove the existential damage already determined in terms of collective psychosis". I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is also a contrary opinion on the third commitment, and the opinion seems to me to be in favour of the other points. COMPAGNONE (GAL). Is the Government willing to activate the preliminary forecast model?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u86	Senator Companione, the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on all other commitments, with the exception of the third one, which reads: "to carry out a scientific study to give weight to the impact on the health of the population since 1991".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u89	ALFANO Gioacchino, State Secretary for Defence. Mr President, I am sorry, at this point it is better to give more thought to this, in order to give Senator Companion a better understanding of the will of the Government. The government finds points of sharing in the premises. In his commitment, Senator Compagnone refers to activities that we have already taken into account on the agenda we have just examined. Now, clearly, I repeat the parts to be eliminated. At the first commitment, the following words must be deleted, as they indicate the idea that damage has already occurred to the community: "Also in order to remove the existential damage already determined in terms of collective psychosis". Therefore, we can guarantee the activity that is planned on condition that it does not arise from that assumption. On the other hand, the government is in favour of the second commitment. As far as the third commitment is concerned, we are opposed to it, because the work that is being requested is already being carried out by us in a longer period and it is not clear whether it is additional or whether it is actually what we are already putting in place because it has been going on since 1991. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary, it seems to me that clarity has been made. We must now move on to explanations of vote, to conclude within the time set. ALFANO Gioacchino, State Secretary for Defence. No, I'm sorry, ma'am. I have to go on for a while. As far as the fourth commitment is concerned, the presenter has actually already replaced the words: "in very short terms" with the word "preliminaryly." We're good with correction. As far as the fifth commitment is concerned, we must eliminate, as we have done before for similar acts, the words: 'No MUOS Committees', because we have done a complex job, avoiding adding entities that do not have institutional functions. Local authorities are enough. Therefore, we are in favour of involving all stakeholders, local authorities, and removing the No MUOS committees. As far as the sixth commitment is concerned, I have already made it clear that this is not a matter of defence, so I cannot give a favourable opinion. I'm just saying it's okay, but it should have exploded because it's not our business. In any case, we are not against it, as it does not cause us any harm. On the seventh commitment the Government is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u90	Now the matter is clear. Also on the sixth engagement the government has declared to be favorable, while noting that it would be within the competence of other Dicastery. The Government, however, is represented here regardless of the matter. Senator Comrade, I'm asking you whether you agree with the government or not. COMPAGNONE (GAL). I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, on its G1 agenda, the Government expressed its support for the first commitment and against the second. I therefore ask you whether you accept what the Government has proposed or whether you insist on voting. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). President. - We do not accept and therefore insist on your vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then he also insists on the vote on the second commitment. On the limit, we could vote for separate parts. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I disagree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u93	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, as President of the Commission, I am obliged to make it clear that the agenda presented by Senator Compagnone follows exactly the text of the resolution on which an opinion was delivered yesterday in the Commission. It has therefore been made clear that part of this agenda is absorbed by the agenda of Senator Granaiola and Senator Di Biagio and that another part is excluded because it is not on the subject. I must say to the Undersecretary that the last item on the agenda (to set up a Research Centre of Excellence in Niscemi, perhaps under the auspices of the CNR) is an issue that has already been dealt with and which the Government has asked us to give up. Therefore, I would point out that there is also a problem of consistency and respect for colleagues who have worked for a long time, but very long, on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u94	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u97	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Undersecretary, the problems relating to the military satellite communication system, known as the MUOS programme, of the US Armed Forces in Sicily have been at the centre, above all in recent months, of multiple events and initiatives by the institutions and civil society, which revolve around the alleged environmental risk and health related to the operation of satellite systems in a particularly sensitive area, considering that the location area of the plants is a site of Community interest, falling within a zone with high environmental risk during the reclamation phase, because it confines to the territory of Gela burdened by pollution produced by refineries. Therefore, the theme in question, submitted to the attention of the Commissions 12a and 13a of the Senate, appeared from the first lines conditioned by a multiplicity of particularly delicate and complex profiles, so as to lead the same Commissions to start a path of deepening and confrontation on the various points dealt with, actively involving the various actors and protagonists directly interested in the events, in terms of both presence on the territory, as well as scientific and institutional competence. Of course, the sense of people's insecurity is fully understandable, especially when we are then faced with unclear technical information. With regard to this, the government's imperative commitment must be to provide answers and clarifications. Equally understandable is the awareness that excessive speculation has been made on this matter. This conviction was justified, also as rapporteur at the 13th meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other. The Commission, together with the Members of the Commission, considered it essential to carry out the appropriate analyses of the individual aspects of the matter, taking care to prevent ideological excesses and all too easy alarmisms from falling on these matters, starting from an awareness: the impossibility to give for assuming the existence of a danger inherent in the MUOS system. However, in the absence of certain evidence - which clearly emerges from the available data - the aim should be to maximise monitoring and control mechanisms. In fact, conscious of the perspective, it was necessary to start from the assumption that the MUOS could not be framed as a system of mass destruction of property for the exclusive use of the U.S. Armed Forces, as someone swooped, fomenting - in fact - a condition of general panic, feeding a kind of MUOS syndrome that, in fact, slowed down a concrete approach to the issue. For this reason, from the outset, it was considered appropriate to divide the issue into two levels: on the one hand, the political opportunity of the installation, its compliance with international dictates and the role that it is preparing to play in the NATO security system and not only; on the other hand, exclusively the physical and environmental impact and the reverberations of this on the populations of the area, on the potential and on the sustainability of the territory, with all the consequences in terms of social, economic and even productive malaise. Mixing the two levels, using instrumentally the use to give strength to the other, is to be considered limiting and does not respect the legitimate right of information and transparency, which should be a priority for the State. Unfortunately, beyond the scientific assessments that have been shared in the referent, at the moment they are not in our availability of certain parameters. It is certain that, in the absence of clear data and information, the understandable attitude related to Nimby's syndrome is amplified: it is not in my garden. I also think it is right to stress that certain safeguards were already insistent in the original agreements underlying the system. It should not be forgotten that the installation authorisation measure is the expression of a bilateral agreement between the USA and Italy in 2001 and that its implementation is subject to the evaluation of the various aspects. At the outset, the Ministry of Defence pointed out that, following the last action of the work, in line with bilateral procedures, all checks would be carried out by a special testing commission. Therefore, a safeguard system was already inherent in the agreement and the related implementation procedures, which nevertheless deserves to be further renewed, strengthened and monitored through sound and effective instruments. Therefore, I thought it important to focus with my colleague Granaiola the attention of the Commissions on the taking of all the information available, clarifying without taking any position the existence of conflicting and unsure points, regarding the dangerousness of the plants. Taking on these aspects, it seems significant to require a timely commitment of the Government in the monitoring and control mechanism, starting from the respect of the protocol of understanding between the Ministry of Defence and the Sicily Region relative to the monitoring system. Therefore, from the beginning it was intended to favour a lucid and fully rational approach that led, after months, to define a document shared with clear and direct commitments addressed to the Government, in reference to which the commitment of these Commissions was strong and constant. It took full account of the observations of the institutions involved, the scientific community and associations active in the territory. As some will surely know, the moments of confrontation have been many, as well as the situations of impasse and deepening that have managed to lead to shared and pragmatic positions that took into account an unavoidable priority: the protection of the health of the citizens and the guarantees of security for the territory. We must consider the climate of strong mood and uncertainty fuelled by the current crisis, together with the proliferation of environmental emergency situations that are shaking the entire national territory, creating alarmism and anxieties, understandable and sometimes justifiable. The international commitments have not been compromised a priori, but the scope and effects have been updated in a framework of sustainability and maximum attention; full follow-up has been made to the institutional agreements entered into over the years, especially since 2008 to the present day, and the institutions directly involved have been properly accountable; account has been taken of the results of administrative justice and of the studies carried out by the Higher Institute of Health in collaboration with WHO and ISPRA, the sole interlocutors, and at the request of the Ministry of Health. As I have already mentioned, the interesting hearings that have taken place on the spot, during a mission of the Commissions and to the Senate in recent months, have not been overlooked, which have provided a fairly detailed, although remarkably complex and articulated, picture of the regulatory, scientific and social scenario within which the operation of satellite installations should be placed. It is precisely in this complexity that the Commission' s in-depth work is not speedy and, therefore, also the standby situation which has affected the discussion of the matter in this House. For this reason, I call on colleagues to fully share the text of this unitary motion, which - in my opinion - represents a lucid and neutral scenario of the dynamics of the MUOS system, and through which the Government is invited to give, at last, in a systematic, transparent and accurate way, the answers that deserve those populations. This is through the identification of a continuous monitoring system of electromagnetic fields, as already provided for in the 2011 Memorandum of Understanding, as well as a systematic programme including, inter alia, monitoring and characterization of the emissions of the MUOS plant and environmental campaigns of measurement of electromagnetic fields by radio frequency in the area. It undertakes to fully enforce the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence and the Sicilian Region of 2011; to provide for appropriate compensation measures, should material and intangible damage be found to the local population objectively attributable to MUOS; to further provide for the immediate interruption of the system where the monitoring revealed harmful results for the population, as provided for in the agreement of 2011.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u98	Senator Di Biagio, you have to finish your speech, because we have to end the sitting by 2 p.m.: on the contrary, I call for a time limit if we want to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u99	For this reason, I welcome the work carried out by the Commissions and the fruitful desire for collaboration and sharing that has accompanied the activity of the last months. Today with this motion we want to restore dignity to the State, responsibility to the institutions and certainties to the citizens, putting at the centre the collective interest without depressing the institutional credibility of our country. In view of these aspects, I am voting in favour of the Per l'Italia Group on the G3 agenda. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u100	Mr President, as has already been pointed out, taking note of the good will and efforts made by the rapporteurs to resolve the concerns of the Sicilian population and the reasons of the State, we reiterate that the agenda for the G3, as set out and read by Senator Di Biagio (who I thank for his great attention), is unfortunately lacking for us. What is the weakness of this agenda? As we have already said, it is the fact that the Government would commit itself to the activation of a monitoring that would clearly be subsequent to the commissioning of the MUOS, not taking into account the fact that some damages have already been produced, as we have illustrated, and that in the studies done so far there is no univocity, both in the method of investigation and in the results, between the various structures of the State (University, ARPA, ISPRA) that very often conflict. We believe that, as we have said several times, a table should be set up with all the actors involved, which, meanwhile, can define a shared methodology and arrive at a shared result, taking into account - another important factor - the cumulative effect between the antennas that have existed since 1991, the petrochemical plant and the new MUOS antennas. That is why we always put the argument of petrochemicals, because it cannot be distinguished, since there is certainly a cumulative effect of pollutants. Therefore, the possible activation of the MUOS can only, in our opinion, be subsequent to the scientific demonstration preventive of the safety of the antennas through that forecast model that we are suggested by all the scientific bodies. Without these indefectable points, every proposal and every motion will only be weak and the Government's commitment will be ineffective. That is why we do not get excited about the list of commitments proposed to the Government, because we consider all these aspects as a corollary of what is the only real important thing for the territory and the populations: to be sure of the safety of MUOS. If the government maintains its position, our vote will clearly be against it, while if it accepts our agenda that it summarises and, in my opinion, improves the approach, even if reworded, then we could agree with a common position. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u103	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is regrettable that Mr Alfano, in rejecting our agenda, contradicted himself, because he said in fact that the MUOS is operational in wartime, but it cannot be in peacetime, that is, it can be used in wartime (and it has all the characteristics in this sense), but if we are in peacetime it does not work. No, you don't want to use it, which is another matter. The proposal on the agenda that we presented was clear: to use this technology to give more guarantees to those who, at the moment, in the Sicily Canal lose their lives, and to save energy and economic resources of our Country in the monitoring operations that we are doing in that marine area. We therefore take note of the government's position and will act accordingly. I would just like to state our position on the motions before us. Our vote will be an abstention on the motion tabled by Mr Santangelo and others because, while in the part that is to safeguard the environmental and health aspect we are satisfied, we consider it somewhat borderline with regard to the second. In fact, action is being taken on a ground which perhaps deserves more thorough study, because ultimately, with the actions proposed - and this also applies to Mr De Petris' first-signed motion - we are going to question our relations with NATO. So our vote will be an abstention on both motions. As far as the G3 agenda for Senators Granaiola and Di Biagio is concerned, we will vote in favour, because it is in fact the expression of the work done in the Commission. However, our vote in favour wants to be projected towards the future, and I shall explain it more clearly. Since we are taking serious action here with regard to monitoring this situation, I trust that in the near future our Group will make a similar motion, which will have the same sensitivity towards the Alpine territories, in which we produce hydroelectric power and where thousands of kilometres of trellises are present. An example of all: the small province of Sondrio, which produces 48% of the hydroelectric energy of Lombardy and 15% of the hydroelectric energy of the country, has thousands and thousands of kilometers of trellis, with tensions - without entering the technician - important, and the actions of the successive governments in these years have allowed only 10 percent to land. It's the same situation. Therefore, our vote in favour is very much in the direction of the future, and we are sure that, on a motion that we shall be tabling, our colleagues in the Democratic Party, but also all our colleagues in the Commission, will demonstrate the same sensitivity that the League shows today in expressing this vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u104	I would also ask the other Members, if possible, to contain their speeches, as Senator Crosio has done, so that on this subject, which is drawn from many sessions, we can finally have a vote, by 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u107	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, let us first note the fact that the Government responds with a representative of the Ministry of Defence, and not even of the Ministry of Health or the Environment, as it would have been appropriate, given that this issue also involves the competences of those Dicasteries. We are puzzled by this, because it seems to us that the assessment of the issue is also different in the general framework. Basically, it seems to me that the Secretary's statements can be summed up with an expression that is widely used in public administrations, namely: I have the cards in place. This consideration, as a Sicilian citizen, deeply involved in the events of Niscemi, in niscemesis, does not satisfy me and does not reassure me, for at least two reasons. Since 1991, as my colleague Compagnone recalled, on the site of the Sughereta there is a base of the American Navy with 41 antennas at different frequencies, one of which is very low frequency, which have never been monitored in a controlled way. I'll explain. Here we should go to monitor those who do the monitoring, because in the many meetings had in Niscemi with citizens and technicians of the University of Turin, it was pointed out that the instrumentation used to measure electromagnetic emissions was not adequate, according to those technicians and also according to technicians of the Sicilian Region. I quote the Sicilian Region of passage, because the "crocetteide" we Sicilians weep; the rest of Italy does not have full awareness of it, but President Crocetta uses to disagree with himself rather often, not only in different times, but sometimes also in extremely close times, when not in a synchronized way. So I don't want to tease you with these issues. The problem, however, remains with the citizens of Niscemi and the neighbouring municipalities, and it is a big problem, in the sense that there is an emission of electromagnetic waves, whose control is to be verified, and the controls made do not reassure. I am therefore not reassured by the Government's statements for which, according to what I have been told, controls have been carried out and are good. The problem is that those controls do not seem to be - let us say so - indisputable and indisputable. As for the fact that the MUOS gives or can give problems, it is like lying down with an atomic bomb placed behind the house: is it peaceful that it will not explode, but you would sleep? Maybe not, and so applies to the citizens of Niscemi. I've talked to a lot of people who plan to move from home, because their home doesn't feel safe anymore, a place where they can take care of themselves. But not everyone can move or have the willingness to do so, and all those who do not live this reality as a kind of divine condemnation, with respect to which they would expect from the government and Parliament, in short, from politics, a reassurance on the entity (while, as I said, for measuring techniques this does not come) or better still a elimination of the problem, while, as we have seen today, there is no intention of eliminating it, which I must take note of, with a certain discouragement. I note the willing attempt by Senators Granaiola and Di Biagio and all those who have worked to do what they can, where, however, the possible is defined at political level by the majority, and it is little. It's not enough. It is not enough because the problems that the citizens of Niscemi have had to date are bound to remain. For everything that concerns the cards and the fact that it is right that the TAR has expressed itself in a certain way, we can make an assessment, which will however remain less technical than the one that will issue the courts that will then be called to express themselves, where they will be. However, the political problem remains, as big as a house, which is not to fail to realize the MUOS, because that is another aspect that we will be able to deal with separately, but it is to achieve the MUOS in a densely populated area. What we are doing in Sicily is creating a system of electromagnetic emissions, directional except error, in a densely populated area. And that these electromagnetic emissions are important shows the fact that the MUOS was not realized in the base of Sigonella, because it could disturb the American military traffic. They put it a little further away, where it only bothers the citizens of Niscemi and the neighboring municipalities. It is for this reason that we in Italy Work in progress, together with our colleagues from the Left Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the motions presented by the 5 Star Movement and by the Left Ecology and Freedom, we will abstain on the agendas, which do not seem to affect what would be needed, and we will vote against the agenda of the North League, as the inclusion of the issue of Mare nostrum and illegal immigration in this area seemed imaginative. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u110	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, I begin by thanking the members of Commissions 12a and 13a very warmly for their work and for having had the capacity to propose a truly excellent agenda, which is an example of a great synthesis of such a contradictory, contrasted and difficult to approach. I have to say that on the balance of issues there are two particularly important and serious issues: the need to guarantee an ally, and NATO in general, an activity of surveillance and surveillance on possible outbreaks of war or war initiatives that can break out anywhere in the world, and that, equally important, to guarantee and protect the health of residents in that territory of Niscese, which is an area already in itself, as has been said, particularly vulnerable from an environmental point of view, and located in a protected area. Senator Compagnone said well, when he was also referring to the activity of the nearby petrochemical plant in Gela, where for decades toxic dusts have been deposited in the soil, and there is therefore also to consider the aspect of the agro-food production activities of that area, with the protests of farmers and farmers who have seen their brand and the image of their production activity. There is therefore a series of problems that are intertwined. I believe that if the residents of Niscemi had the will to transfer their residence and family, they probably should have thought so long ago and not only because of this new activity of the MUOS of which it is really difficult to understand what the harmful actions can be. It is therefore clear that we are very much in favour of this joint agenda and we are in favour of monitoring which must be particularly careful and controlled by the competent authorities and the competent bodies, because it is only in the medium and long term that we will know exactly what the harmful effects of the radiation emitted by MUOS will be on the local population. So here is the attention that the government must have on these issues. What we particularly appreciate about the agenda, which convinces us most and which leads us to share it with certainty, is the point of the device in which it is expected that the system will be stopped immediately where the monitoring would result in harmful results for the population. This, of course, leaves us partly calm. Similarly, we appreciate the involvement of local administrations in monitoring this activity. I therefore voted in favour of the G3 agenda by the New Centre Group. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u113	SANTANGELO (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to know with great detail what is being discussed in this House today. Colleagues senators, I tell you a story whose actors are nature, man and politics, which I will then call bad politics. This story takes place in a part of our beautiful Italy, Sicily, a place rich in history, priceless works of art and a natural heritage that the whole world envys us. As Goethe said: It is in Sicily that you find the key to everything (...). The purity of the contours, the softness of everything, the yielding exchangeability of the tints, the harmonious unity of the sky with the sea and the sea with the earth... He who has seen them once will possess them all his life. The place where history is set is a small village of Sicily, Niscemi; more precisely, it is set in an area close to the village, the natural reserve of the Sughereta: a small part of what was one of the largest cork forests of Sicily, an ecosystem rich in biodiversity, with cork oaks, orchids, Mediterranean maquis. One day, however, man, as he often does, decided to shave to the ground, to create the desert in a part of this Sughereta, Mr. Undersecretary Alfano, and to put on 46 antennas that transmit in high and low frequency. Mr Undersecretary, I would ask you whether you, in the Senate Chamber today, can say whether there are any scientific studies on the problems created by these antennas in relation to man and the ecosystem. I ask you, Mr Undersecretary, if you can tell me what color an electromagnetic wave is; I ask you to tell me what it tastes like; I ask you to be crossed by an electromagnetic wave. But she must do it every day: gentlemen, you must do it every day, and not in any place, but in front of or behind your house. We have to do it in our home to have a contience of what is being done in Niscemi. Let's face it, because that is not a random place: it is 15 kilometers from the petrochemical of Gela and 110 kilometers from the petrochemical of Augusta-Priolo. In life I'm an architect, so at the base there's a project, a program. How can you tell us, Mr Undersecretary, that you have the cards in place, if the percentage of cancer is extremely high in that place than in many other areas, and that is the first cause of death? It's safe, it's established that these petrochemicals act cursedly on the daily life of the person who lives in the surroundings. How can you, Mr. Undersecretary, tell me with indifference about the implementation of the MUOS? We are talking about three antennas that have parables of 18 meters, one of which is more than 100 meters high, that is the double of the Colosseum, for those who want some visual reference. Come to explain and tell me that it does not take a static calculation to realize structures of this type so that they can act in a highly seismic zone: so the citizens calm down. But do it before you realize it. This work, regardless of the agreements that have been made with anyone, with anyone, has a terrible impact. You do not want to accept what is objective damage: yes, it is called existential damage, Mr. Undersecretary. In Niscemi, where architecture allows it, there are the courtyards; people made life in the courtyards. Do you know how those people are now? With the semi-low shutters. Would you ask why, before coming here to this House to say that you have the cards in place? There is real damage, and above all it acts on the new generations. Gentlemen Senators, we can't pretend anything anymore. So, appreciated all the work that has been done, that work is not enough from any point of view; it is not enough in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution that you, Mr. Undersecretary, and all of you colleagues should know. This article reads as follows: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. So, speaking of Niscemi, I can't accept a senator getting up and saying that people should have left that place by now. We are all responsible, perhaps I am a little less, since I have been a senator for a year and a half; but your parties, who have also acted on the territory, have accepted the sale of sovereignty. By sovereignty I mean the sovereignty of everything: of the territory, of the air, of the green, of deciding where to live life. There are no nations there, there are no flags. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gentlemen, that's not enough of what we've done. You see, Senator Marinello, who lives in Sicily and is the President of the Environment Commission, is not present, but could also say so; even Senator Granaiola could say so. We have also heard, Mr President, the health watchmen: they are the mothers of MUOS, the mothers of MUOS. The Muos! [[Comments from the PD Group]] We heard them. They are the mothers who see their children grow up with behaviors that are not normal. And this should all - everyone: those who have children and those who do not have them - not make us so serene, don't make us compliment ourselves for something that is not enough! Presidents, that is not enough! They told us what the behaviors are, the objective damage. If you want scientific documentation, Mr. Undersecretary, before you come and tell these lies here, we'll bring them to you. The Health Commission has seen them, it is not we of the 5 Star Movement who say these things per party taken! It must be noted, in Italy, that if a work is not wanted by the citizens living in the territory, the work must not be done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We all have to take note of that. I say it with my heart in the hands of you of the PD, to you of Forza Italia, to you of the NCD: what are we doing here if we do not consider the citizens who live the place? So let's block the MUOS and see if the MUOS -- but not by itself: embedded in a system, in a sum of negativity acting on that system -- it hurts or doesn't hurt. Ask yourself, then, what you want to do with that part of Sicily. What do you want to do with Sicily? Does it have to be a strategic place from the military point of view, or do you want to start Italy from the South? Do you want to do it or not? Then also reject your document, because it is not enough. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Listen to those voices, which also come from the camera: "no MUOS", "no MUOS", "no MUOS". You'll hear it again at night. You must open the doors of your home and find yourself in front of the antennas of the MUOS and then, with conscience, come here and vote. And you, Mr. Undersecretary, have to bring me the papers and tell me you don't need any building permits. No Muos! [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Comments of Senators Giovanardi and D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u114	Senator Giovanardi, have the senator finish. Senator D'Anna, don't put yourself there.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u117	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will speak a few minutes, and I would ask you for permission to deliver the text. The story of MUOS, as we have just heard, involves particularly complex aspects and opposing interests, but first of all it poses an inescapable health and environmental issue. On this point, on the one hand, there is a front of experts, who raised a scientific wall talking about the risks of chronic exposure for the inhabitants of Niscemi to electromagnetic fields and of disturbance to air navigation, since the MUOS rises near three airports; on the other hand, there are the ISPRA and the Higher Institute of Health, which reassure that electromagnetic emissions will be far below the legal limits. In this case, in short, science does not give certain and univocal answers, and this has also been found in recent weeks in the Senate Environment and Health Commissions. Having made this necessary premise, it remains a fact, however, that our country has made commitments with the allies: I am referring in particular to Italy's obligation, with the ratification of the London Convention in 1955, to guarantee the Allied countries the free use of military installations they need. This is the case of the MUOS, a new generation of narrowband satellite communication program, created to support not only US and NATO military operations around the world, but also to ensure reliable coverage during assistance operations in national emergency situations, interventions following natural disasters and humanitarian operations. Sicily, whether you like it or not, is an asset, a geopolitically strategic region, where various installations pass and where more than 130,000 submarine lines come from the Mediterranean. These are cables through which all non-satellite communications coming from the Middle East pass. From Sicily, in short, they pass many of the most important information for the agencies that deal with security and the fight against terrorism. It is therefore no coincidence that Sicily is at the heart of NATO's Smart Defence projects, and the installation of Niscemi will become synergistic at the AGS (Alliance Ground Surveillance), which in 2017 will make Sigonella's aircraft station the largest surveillance and recognition base for the security of the globe. The MUOS is, in conclusion, a site of strategic interest for the military defence of our country, also because it is a satellite communication system that our armed forces can also use. I would like to make one final point, Mr President: when the United States decided to invade Afghanistan after the attacks of 11 September, international pacifism mobilized itself by claiming that the war on terrorism is being waged with intelligence and not with missiles and tanks. Well, the MUOS is heading in this direction: increasingly shifting the protection of global security from military operations to strengthening intelligence. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group strongly hopes for constant monitoring of the risks to the population regarding electromagnetic emissions, in line with its traditional policy of keeping commitments with the allies, will vote against the two motions presented, will abstain on the G1 agenda and will vote in favour of the G3 and G4 agendas. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u118	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech to be published in the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u121	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, it has been a long time - but it has not been lost - to get to the vote today on motions and agendas on MUOS, the very high-frequency and narrow-band satellite communications system, which will be managed by the United States Navy, consisting of four satellites and four ground stations. One of them is under construction in Sicily, in Niscemi, in the province of Caltanisetta, within a nature reserve, site of community interest, the Sughereta. I will not be here to resume the authorised and technical passages, which are known, also because they emerged from the debate, while I would like to take this opportunity to recall once again in a public forum the need for shared instruments, reasoned within this House and regulated to share the construction of works and infrastructure impacting on the territory. This is the only tool that we can foresee, for the future, in order to be able to realize the necessary works without creating short circuits and managing the right apprehensions and also the tensions that the territories highlight. On the other hand, I would like to point out and stress the result of the hearings held by the Commissions meeting 12a and 13a both in the Caltanisetta prefecture and in the Commission's work. I thank here the Presidents Marinello and De Biasi for having facilitated and allowed a careful and punctual work of deepening, useful to everyone to understand and above all to listen. We audit administrators and representatives of local authorities, technical experts and university professors, citizens and movements, and this has been a useful and important work. Of course, we also heard from ISPRA (the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research). What has emerged can be summed up in a few points: firstly, the lack of reliable, clear and transparent information to citizens and their administrators, with the consequent understandable increase in anxiety and concern (and in fact anxiety, concern and doubt are recurrent terms in the debate on this issue). Scientific doubts have emerged about measurements, due to unshared tools and methods and the absence of projection models. Here, too, the debate on opposing thesis on measurements has generated obvious and natural concerns and apprehensions. Learning and doubts about the emission levels of magnetic fields and the possible damage from this type of pollution are causing a psychological and psychophysical discomfort, which we have seen and which is now pathology. It is evident - Senator Santangelo recalled earlier - how much a pollution that is neither visually, olfactoryly nor tactically perceptible is difficult to manage in its measurement. I remember the discussions on cigarette smoke pollution, which is perceived from both the visual and the olfactory points of view, but on which I think that, if this House were to express itself at this time, there would be doubts as to its effectiveness, even if it is scientifically stated. The need to reclaim the naturalistic area from the installation of antennas now in disuse and the need for measures to protect the agricultural economy of the territory, already strongly compromised by the pollution of the near petrochemical of Gela, another responsibility to which we are called for investigation and presence. Doubts, fears and problems that the Commission has understood, which it has taken on and on which work has been done, including by addressing the alternative proposal to suspend the programme, but trying to do the best. For this effort, I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, Mr Granaiola and Mr Di Biagio, who have succeeded in the complicated effort to give the best possible answers. We will therefore vote on the agenda of the Commissions, on which I announce the vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group, which commits the Government on several points, which are part of the answers to the problems encountered. There is a commitment to accurate and transparent information to citizens and administrators and there is a commitment to take continuous monitoring measures of magnetic fields, as already provided for in the 2011 Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence and the Region of Sicily, with the involvement of local authorities and the institutions concerned. There is a commitment to enforce this agreement and to install the control unit system for the continuous monitoring of magnetic fields, to reduce emissions from other sources with an underground transmission system of optical fibres and to promptly remove antennas that are currently in disuse. But above all I would like to stress two points, which, as I said in the Commission, are not and do not want to be an optimistic and absolute vision of such a complex and serious problem, but rather a serious assumption of responsibility for the people of the Niscemi area and its right to health and to the protection of that environment. The first commitment is aimed at the immediate interruption of the system, where monitoring revealed harmful results for the population (so it is written on the agenda G3), together with the implementation of a systemic program of measurement, study and evaluation not only in the immediate, but seen in time and space, to contribute to the research on the effects of pollution from electromagnetic fields, on which to date we have strong doubts, but not certainties. There is also a call for a timely report to Parliament, which commits us not to neglect Niscemi and its inhabitants over time. It should be stressed the importance that we attach to this research, even if I appreciate in some way the evaluation that has been made, because the problem is today under our attention to Niscemi in reference to MUOS, but the pollution from electromagnetic fields affects the whole country, for various situations and various sources, so it is necessary to think in depth about where to place the seat of the institution that will have to take charge of this. The second commitment, for me the most important, is taken up in paragraph 6 of the premises of the agenda, where it is recalled what is written in the authorization documentation of the Ministry of Defence of 2006, according to which, before the system is put into operation, it must be guaranteed and certified that electromagnetic emissions fall within the parameters established by the Italian laws in force. Therefore, the MUOS shall not enter into operation if the emission limits are not met. We'll watch this one. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u122	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. After the vote on the motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded nor absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 125. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on motion 125. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 125 and 213 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 213. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 213 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 125 and 213 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on the G1 agenda. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 125 and 213 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G3 agenda presented by Senators Granaiola and Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 125 and 213
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u125	ALFANO Gioacchino, State Secretary for Defence. Mr President, I speak quickly only to ask for another correction to those already made on Senator Companione's G4 agenda, which is to eliminate the last commitment of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u126	Senator Companione, I ask you whether you accept the government's request. COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr. President, all right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G4 agenda (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G4 (text 2), presented by Senator Compagnone. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, a number of requests have been made for speeches at the end of the sitting but, having arrived at the scheduled time for the closure of the House's proceedings, I will refer them back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-266.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.55 p.m.
