ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting the votes on the amendments tabled in Article 1 continued.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u7	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the order of business. Yesterday we didn't write a good page in the history of the Senate. The responsibility of this page will be a matter of reflection and perhaps also a bit of investigation on why and why an attempt at mediation, the one attempted by Senator Chiti to restore a climate of constitutional collaboration, even in the distinction of roles and opinions, has not gone through. Now, Mr President, much of the weight of the need for the debate in this House to proceed in a positive and conclusive way rests on your shoulders. I remember her in the election campaign, when we were both called by the Democratic Party, even though we did not have cards, to make a contribution to the country that came from our respective and different professional experiences, as a wise, balanced and firm person. I didn't share yesterday's attacks that were brought to his person. However, an old campaign partner of yours will be allowed to ask for clarification about the use, origin, how and why the kangaroo mechanism has been used - and used in that way - whose existence, like so many, is not an expert in the branch... [[Brusio]] I'd ask PD's friends to prove they're respectful of their party partner while he's talking. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] I turn to the President to say that in recent days I have read an interview with a prominent constitutionalist, Augusto Barbera, who also had top political responsibilities. In this interview Barbera seems almost to suggest (in fact, she openly suggests) the adoption of this mechanism and refers to the previous experience, by now many years ago, of the President of the Chamber Nilde Iotti, an unforgettable person for all of us, who used that mechanism to tame the obstructionism that then came - Barbera says - from the radicals and the ranks of the Communist Party itself (of which many heirs are present here in the Group of the Democratic Party), the same Group that had indicated Nilde Iotti to the Presidency of the Chamber. I have read with emotion this memory of Barbera because, beyond technicalism, it reminds us as one of the greatest Presidents of a Parliamentary Chamber - Nilde Iotti, precisely - knew, in crucial moments, how to distinguish itself from its own field of origin and belonging. I know that you - and you have shown this on more than one occasion - know how to be the President of all, not the President of the party for which you participated in the election campaign and from which you were brought to this House. I ask you, then, if you have five minutes of patience, to explain once again, in order to allow all of us a more mature reflection on how things are going and how the debate in this House develops, the relationship with the high tradition of Italian parliamentaryism and, in particular, with the nature of the kangaroo mechanism, which there is not in the Rules of Procedure and practice of the Senate, but that there is in that of the House, with the exception declared in the Statute of Constitutional Laws, which some colleagues raised yesterday. I have no prejudices of any kind, we can also innovate, but an innovation of this magnitude - which I understand, but perhaps I am wrong, and I would ask to be enlightened - deserves an additional explanation, because perhaps in this way the atmosphere of this House will improve. [[Applause from the GAL, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and the Senators Di Maggio, Buemi and Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u10	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I too will follow the points raised by my colleague and friend Massimo Mucchetti, but with some enlargement of his thinking. If I had to put a title to the things I'm going to say, I would quote Â Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas Â Â Â. The first truth, which I believe we can all share, is that yesterday we all - and I understand clearly - gave a miserable spectacle. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Lucherini (PD). No, we don't! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet, please, don't interrupt the surgery. Mr Corsini (PD). We have all given a miserable spectacle in this House, so much so that I think that those scholars who refer to the term 'political' are right, not to polis, the city, but to polemos, war and conflict. Yesterday it emerged here in a conflict of all against all. I think it is also acceptable that there is a lack of that life-giving spirit that can make sure that constitutional reform can be felt proper by all the Italian people, as it has been in the years of the Constitution. Without this life-giving spirit the new Constitution will be born already dead, it will not arouse passions, it will not follow it, it will not promote fidelity and interiorization. Moreover, I think that the real problem facing us is not the writing of the text. Yesterday I heard a colleague, whom I esteem and to whom I recognize a remarkable and undoubted intelligence, almost reduce the problem of drafting to a matter of drafting. I believe that in forty or fifty years' time historians will even be able to ironise on this line: I think that the problem is political substance, and the political substance, in my opinion, concerns two wrongs that emerged yesterday. I would first of all like to address my colleagues and friends in the Misto-SEL Group, to whom I would like to say quite frankly that they are wrong, that of a stubborn and pervicacious determination to continue in a obstructionism which I consider sterile and unproductive, not only because it feeds tension and creates a climate of considerable difficulty, but because, in my opinion, it does not allow them - and I obviously assume the responsibility of what I say - to achieve the objectives and objectives which they legitimately pursue. There is a second wrong and I regret to say it: the one of whom - and I am also addressing you, Mr President - uses the Rules of Procedure or the Regulations as the cornerstone of the solution to the political problem facing us. I did not share - I am not a jurist, so I whisper very modestly what I am going to say - the use of a rule that is applied by analogy, but not to the point of employing it in its completeness. In fact, the reference to Rule 85- bis of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber is in many ways, in my opinion, inescapable: The provisions referred to in the last period of paragraph 8 of Article 85 shall not apply in the discussion of draft Constitutional Laws. Moreover, the reference to President Mancino is, in my opinion, improper because it was not a constitutional law at that time. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to express my personal solidarity with the insults and insults you have received. You are a man of law and, on more than one occasion, I have been able to see that you are not the President-designate of the Democratic Party, as President Serracchiani reminded you inappropriately, with an exit that I considered extremely unhappy. [[Applause from Senators Buemi, Simeoni and Carraro.]] You are the President of all of us. That is precisely why I believe that Mr Cucchetti's request - with the kindness he deserves to be taken seriously - is worthy of serious consideration. I was saying about the basically political nature of the problem: I always thought that politics is the resource that allows a regulation of the complexity of the problems of associated life and, as far as I am concerned, I interpret it as an instrument of mediation, a conciliatory attitude, a compromise arrangement (I use this term, which I stress). Moreover, the Constituents were confronted with the political substance of this problem and found the solution in a compromise: there is no historical or interpreter of the Constitution that does not stress the compromise nature of the text that has emerged from it. Compromise comes from cum and promise: in this case, I do not know if we all have the foresight of the promise and if therefore we have a long look and we are able to be forward-looking and anti-seeing; but I know that we are responsible for the cum, that is, for the whole, for a common assumption of responsibility. So, in conclusion, yesterday I appreciated the measure, the quality and the tone of Mr Boschi's intervention, which, in essence, referred to the dialectic between the majority and the minority the solution of the political substance of the problem facing us. Of course, there are so many corollaries on which it is disputed, there is heat and confrontation, but we all know that the substance of the question is the electivity or not of the Senate. Now, since the majority and opposition, in the persistence of these two wrongs, cannot get out of the crippling cage of the current situation, I would like to appeal to the Government, which, in my opinion, could assume responsibility for a proposal that leads to an honourable and noble compromise, as it was in the face of much more dramatic issues and right-wings in the years of the Constituent: a compromise, in short. Moreover, we have the materials for an impossible compromise: I do not want to give an indication of preference, I could say what my personal one is, but that is not the problem, which is another. In the past, from individual senators - and I am thinking of Senator Russo, as far as PD is concerned - from individual parliamentary groups - I am thinking of the New Right Centre or, again, Members such as Senator Quagliariello - or of other representatives who are not present in this House, but are following the problem with interest, has been mentioned, for example, the French model, which could constitute an honourable compromise. I believe that the Government cannot remain inert and impassive or be partisan in question; the Government cannot become partisan, but must participate: this is a fundamental difference. I therefore think that the Government, which I intend to continue to support and which I believe has an extraordinary mission for Italy today and for the immediate future, can take on today the burden of an extra soul and wing and work in view of this honourable compromise, whose issues and the field of which it can responsibly choose. I am confident that the government will have the courage to make this choice. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Senators Buemi, Di Maggio and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u13	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a speech different from that of Senator Corsini, and I am obliged to do so because two days ago I publicly gave her a statement of esteem in this House for her courageous decision, taking into account the times, to access the request for secret voting made by those who do not agree with these reforms. But now, quite frankly, I have to tell you that perhaps it would have been better if you had responded negatively on that occasion, because what we have now set up is a huge problem, as big as a house. Frankly, after yesterday's affair, although they have spent twenty-four hours, if I was stunned before now I am almost outraged, shocked, and not for reform. We all know that reform - if we want to have a moment of sincerity - does not appeal to anyone, not even in this House. Unfortunately, times lead us to be more hypocritical than we should be, but it is enough for me to participate in any discussion within or outside my Group to hear from everyone that reform is half a mess. But let's forget it. That's not the problem right now. The problem, as Senator Cucchetti said, is another: it is the precedent that we have created on how to reform the Constitution. We created a precedent that, in my opinion, is very dangerous. Therefore, we have made the situation worse, because the issue on which we must now reflect is to prevent the wound inflicted yesterday on the guarantees of this country from becoming something worse, creating conditions for the future that no one will ever be able to control again. I am not referring to a risk of caesarism, because, frankly, when I hear Renzi speaking he does not seem to me a Caesar, but rather the "Cesaretto" of the trattoria of Via della Croce. The problem is who could come later. We have drawn an institutional framework for which anyone who comes after, with a majority of a certain type, can safely change the Constitution and not every thirty years - as Senator Divine said - but every two or three months and in a condition in which minorities can say absolutely nothing. So let's stop for a moment and reflect, because the precedent we gave life to yesterday, between smiles and a little foolishness (when you touch certain topics and certain practices you should be careful), is very serious. We try to heal that wound, otherwise one tomorrow, and we owe that to our children, anyone can come here - and it won't be Renzi, but someone else because majorities don't last, especially at this time - and change as the Constitution wants by making paper torn. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u16	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, very briefly, I believe that the concerns of Mr Corsini and Mr Cucchetti are partly ours too. First of all, I would like to point out with pleasure that within the Democratic Party, fortunately, we do not have an induced type approval of thought. There is still someone who is able to tell the truths, to freely express their thoughts, that we share. However, to Mr Corsini, who is looking for the truth, I would like to say this briefly. Mr Corsini, I believe that the moment of compromise is finally set in this House when the President-in-Office of the Council - not Senator Crosio, who is just a pawn in this chessboard, but Prime Minister Renzi - said that the legitimate political demands expressed in this House yesterday were made only for personal interests, to save his own chair. I believe, then, that these statements, made not by me (because in the fervour of the debate within the House could also run away from inappropriate phrases), but by the President of the Council, are truly disqualifying and even mortifying. Therefore, to my colleague Corsini who is looking for the truth I say that yesterday we had two certainties: the first is that the President of the Council continues to tell lies, not to us but to the country; the other certainty, more dramatic, is the inability to manage this Assembly by its summit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, first of all I would like to bring you solidarity, including personal solidarity: I have been presiding over the House for two and a half years as Vice President, and I know how difficult it is, especially at moments such as those we experienced yesterday, to preside over an Assembly. I must also say that I had never seen - and I have parliamentary experience, even as a minister for relations with Parliament - clashes between Members of Parliament, not only in this House, as may happen at a particular moment, but that they have also continued outside, with parliamentary assistants who had to intervene to the exit door to divide the contenders who were fighting. This is the sign of nervousness that is skyrocketing and that, since we are only at the beginning of something that will have to lead us to debate in the coming weeks, we are really at risk of creating negative phenomena that have never happened before in Parliament's history. Yesterday at the exit it was raining, the weather was sad, but I was even sadder when, passing in front of the headquarters of the largest daily newspaper in Rome, I read the same phrases that I find this morning in all the Italian newspapers and that is that a battle is going on for our chair. This says the "Corriere della sera", with eight columns, this was written last night "Il Messaggero", this is the image that the President of the Council is giving Parliament and the Senate to the Italians, at the moment when some senators or groups, like SEL or others, who use tones above the lines, in my opinion, mistakenly, with civil passion are doing a battle in which they believe. I voted yesterday for the election by direct and universal suffrage of the Senate and I will vote for all the amendments to give the Italians the right to choose the Senate, even if it will be downgraded, we all know that. All the senators who are doing this battle know that the Senate as it has been will no longer be; all in one way or another, have agreed to rewrite the Constitution by adapting it to a situation in which you have to get out of the perfect bicameralism. However, when this happens, I do not agree that this is the image that is given by the individual senators. I also speak for myself: I have my own political biography and I am willing to compare it with that of the President of the Council to see who has lived more of bread and politics between me and him. I therefore believe that, when we resume this work, the President's task is also to protect the image of the Senate and the senators; then everyone will judge the content of the matter, as was done this morning in some heartfelt appeals. The content can divide us, but not the good faith of those who carry out this battle and above all the generosity of those who are fighting this battle in the interests of the country. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u22	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I wanted to insist on two formal aspects which, from my point of view, can make a significant contribution to revealing the climate and giving a more appropriate perspective to our constitutional review work. The first aspect on which I would like to speak concerns once again, and I have mentioned it earlier, the role of the Government. As far as I am concerned and as far as my knowledge is concerned, the Government's contribution was expressed by the presentation of draft law No. 1429, which, moreover, was accompanied by 52 other draft laws, giving a summary of them. Since the text was dismissed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that text is, as far as I am concerned, the Finocchiaro-Calderoli text, i.e. a parliamentary text, with which I believe it is inadequate and misleading that we maintain a quasi-controversial relationship with the Commission. And I would be going to say that even fellow senators who are part of the government would give, as a form that is substance and plastically, more help if, at the time of the revision of the constitutional text, they sat among the benches of the emicycle and not at the benches of the government, because we give the impression to Italy that the discussion of constitutional revision is a question comparable to a decree-law, or to the management of an ordinary bill and we completely lose the sense of the work of the revision of the Constitution, which is work of building the unity of the nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The second aspect, Mr President, concerns the legendary kangaroo. While I am of the opinion that we should try to contribute, as it was in the spirit of Senator Chiti's proposal, to a greater communion that builds the stages of the constitutional revision process, let me stress that what happened yesterday also contradicts the spirit of the norms that have been evoked to use the kangaroo. In fact, the kangaroo is an animal that jumps, and therefore, on 600 pages of Cassati amendments, it is clear that it should have stopped, from those furthest away from the spirit of the amendments to be voted on to those closest to it, and make stops that included median hypotheses. My call, therefore, without at all wishing to alter the freedom of the President of this House, is to consider what is also contained in the spirit of the rules evoked, so that the use of this procedure is framed in the right dimension of something that helps speed up the work and is not seen as an instrument at the disposal of the majority of the time to make mistakes on the observations of the oppositions. I say all this, Mr President, because on the day that we are going to live, regaining the constituent spirit with pricklyness and insistence, without ever yielding to the temptation of violence, is really the only chance we have to offer a dignified spectacle to the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u23	Colleagues, since there are no other requests for intervention, I suspend the sitting for the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, as was requested by several parties yesterday, so as to address the problems that were raised this morning. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Minzolini.]] The Council for the Rules of Procedure is convened at 10.30 a.m. and the Assembly is expected to be at 11.30 a.m.; I predict why the work of the Council should be completed for that time. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.11 a.m. and resumed at 11.56 a.m.) The session is resumed. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is still under way. At the President's suggestion, in order to avoid further stop and go, the sitting shall be suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.57 a.m. and resumed at 3.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u24	The session is resumed. I have read the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted at its meeting this morning. [[Brusio.]] I'm asking you for some attention. The Board for the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with previous and established practice, following the decision of the Board for the Rules of Procedure of 17 July 1996, confirms that it is the power of the Presidency, in the light of the combined provisions of Articles 100, paragraph 8, and 102, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, to make use of the so-called kangaroo rule, also for the examination of constitutional bills.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u27	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, precisely because you are a man of law, could you tell me what practice and established precedents are? [[Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u28	The relevant texts have been distributed and are already in possession of the members of the Junta in which, as you know, all the Groups are represented. If you need it, we can provide you with a photocopy of those precedents. However, to be clear, these precedents concern the Constitutional Law on Devolution of 2002 and the Constitutional Law of 2004 on the Reform of Part II of the Constitution. These are the precedents in which this rule has been applied, specifically by President Pera for a practice consolidated with the precedent that goes back to President Mancino with an opinion of the Board for the Rules of Procedure which is related, by analogy, to Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the House that indicates the method, refers to the method used by the Chamber of Deputies. This article was subsequently amended by the House, but there is no rule in the Senate Rules on this matter, and a further article has been added in which further discipline has been given to how to deal with the amendments, even with the indication of a percentage by the various Groups in relation to their numerical consistency. Finally, according to the rule of the House, it has been established that such discipline does not apply to the constitutional law, but it is not found equal norm in the Rules of the Senate. I don't know if I've been exhaustive. [[Comments.]] IN MAY (PI). It was very clear, Mr President, that only if it is applied by analogy in a case... Then I wasn't clear. I referred to the precedent from which the House's practice was born and today the reference to the House no longer makes any sense except for that beginning with which the method that was then in force, namely Article 85 before the reform, which is the reference to which the previous Junta for the Rules of Procedure referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u31	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make a few brief legal considerations, since the matter has been going on for some time from yesterday evening until this morning and then until the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Of course I take note of the response of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, of these five or six lines that in summary make disappear any reference to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber that had been recalled yesterday, because in this response of the Board for the Rules of the Senate of today there is no longer any reference to the practice, to the norms cited for the Chamber of Deputies, to Rule 85 and to the limitations that referred to Rule 85-a, paragraph 4. This is, therefore, certainly a novelty compared to yesterday's date, of which I am of course aware. Similarly, I note the references made to confirm the power of the Senate Presidency to use the so-called kangaroo rule, referring to the combined provisions of Articles 100 (8) and 102 (4) of our Rules of Procedure. I have re-read Article 100 (8), which refers to the inadmissibility of amendments of a certain type and I believe that we are absolutely not in this case, because the inadmissibility of the amendments has already been declared in the initial phase of this House's work, so we are out of time and in this case. The second reference is to Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which states that the President may change the voting order when he considers it appropriate for the sake of the economy or the clarity of the votes themselves. This was a obvious fact that we knew, but that had absolutely nothing to do with the issue we were discussing. Basically, therefore, reference is made to two uncontested rules of the Rules of Procedure, which add absolutely nothing and which concern, rightly, the power of the President of the Senate to intervene in certain situations: those of inadmissibility in the preliminary phase, as he said before, or that of regulating the order of votes. That is why the matter remains intact, although everyone must take note of this decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. At this point, however, I put the question from an institutional point of view and not so much in relation to this issue of ours about the reform of the Constitution that is taking place in this House these days. Here it is a question of reasoning about legal certainty, because in this way and with this response it means (the Senate can take note, for goodness sake) that the presidency of the Senate can do whatever it wants at any time, so in some cases it can confirm, in some other cases it can innovate, just as it was done on the first day of assessments on the secret vote, when at some time it was said that there was the bond with the previous ones and these were respected, while in other cases, for example, on the competence of the Chambers to intervene on this matter, it has established that the precedents can be innovated. We therefore take note of this decision. I would therefore point out, in this House, that this poses a risk precisely to legal certainty and not just at this time, but to the future, because it means that any intervention and any vote are subject to an uncertain, nebulous assessment and determined by criteria outside the legal ones. I shall just say this and of course take note of the response. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u32	Senator Casson, see that the criteria are entrusted, by Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, to the President's power to change the voting order if he considers it appropriate in the economy of voting. The aim of the economy of voting is to comply with a political fact that comes out of the Conference of Presidents of the Groups, in which it was agreed that the work should be contingent and concluded by 8 August. The President, therefore, has a work of harmonization and coordination, for quota purposes, and he can only use all the instruments that the Rules of Procedure give him to do so, including this faculty, which - I assure you - is not adopted in a written way, but can be controlled and controlled and will be used with common sense to ensure that they are not voted in a serial and repetitive way - and therefore, indefinitely - amendments that vary only for a fraction of a number. So my speech is only aimed at resolving this problem, which has certainly not been provoked by the Presidency. We must be able to resolve the number of repetitive amendments, which are serial, which are capable of implementing by one vote the rejection or adoption of a whole series of amendments. Therefore, the need to settle and balance the decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Groups, to set time for a result - I repeat, this is a political decision - and the powers of the President to ensure that this result is achieved, together with the fact that not one of these amendments has been withdrawn, except after hours and hours of debate in this House on the same amendment. This is because it is clear that we are not - as you said, Senator Casson - out of any legal certainty: there is legal certainty of achieving a result, arriving at it with the common sense and cooperation of all, in order to prevent the climate of this House from generating an image that is not commendable even outside. That is the intention of the Presidency and I assure you and I assure you that this power will be exercised with common sense. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u35	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, with the calmness that is imposed on a day that we wish to leave in a different way from the other days, allow us to make a few small comments: we can suspend the work of the House for the convening of the Council of the Rules of Procedure, according to our rules (which have not yet changed), if someone incidentally asks for it and the matter deserves further consideration. There's a weight problem. Yesterday, at least seven colleagues, seven senators, rose and asked the President to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Seven incidental requests that have fallen into thin air. Today, however, it was President Zanda who made this request. ZANDA (PD). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, you start from inaccurate assumptions. President Cucchetti was the first to make this request, and then all the other speeches were in this respect. I apologize for interrupting you, but it was for a need for precision. I invite you to continue your speech. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will no longer speak as you answer or speak because we know what the automatic mechanism of this House will be from that moment on. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u36	I see Senator Santangelo is making suggestions. Well, I didn't think you needed any suggestions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u37	[[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Santangelo makes the thumb gesture verse.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). I do not need any suggestions, Mr President, or interference, if they are not needed. We think, therefore, that if the matter exists, formally raised by Mr Cucchetti (but, as we know, in other ways, by some other colleague, who at this point I do not quote because he could immediately refute me), it immediately wonders whether the weight, value and rights of every senator in this House are identical and equal or whether there is no senator more equal than the others. We are in a impasse, so you, Mr President, feel that you must listen to the Members of the Rules of Procedure and appeal to all the rules that are mutual and applicable by analogy to this House. And the only rules, at this point, that can be taken as reference can only be deducted from the Rules of the other Parliamentary Chamber. Good. The famous kangaroo, invented, conceived, given birth to the Senate is but a planned institute, not regulated by the Senate, but very well regulated by the Chamber where, in case of repetitiveness and small modifications, especially of numerical character, the Regulation establishes that they take the farthest amendment, the nearest and a series of intermediates, simplifying the landscape but leaving the opportunity to the Chambers to express themselves at least by blocks. This, however, has not been applied. Moreover, the House, perhaps because over time it has had more motivations and more incidental cases, has also established that certain rules, such as this, cannot be applied to constitutional reform rules. To the point that the House had to include in its Rules of Procedure, after Rule 85, Rule 85-a, which provides that amendments can be split and voted by blocks, but that these operations on constitutional reform laws cannot be carried out. It seems to us that the Senate Rules Council stopped at the old Rule 85 this morning, lending what is no longer there, not even in the House. We refer to a regulation that the House has already passed, because it has already provided, adding Article 85-a, for that article no longer to be used. Let's make another argument. A fellow magistrate, Mr Casson, has just spoken, who, with his vision of a man of law, has noticed, more or less as I am noticing, perhaps in a barbaric way, the same inconsistencies. More than that, I am referring to another magistrate who spoke in this House yesterday. I am referring to my colleague Nitto Palma, who said that the President cannot afford to dump his decisions on the House which determine the rights of minorities and oppositions. Putting back to the House a decision that recognizes or restricts the rights of the opposition and makes the counter-argument, i.e. its majority, decide on this, is a way to frustrate and disown that the rights of the opposition also exist. We can understand that the contingent moment can push to force the hand and to press on operations that slim down the work, because the closer we get to August and more likely it is that we have to stay and discuss things that may be of relatively little interest to a part of this House, if not to dispose of them quickly. However, it must be borne in mind that everything you do is not something that you put in the fridge or throw in the garbage. Everything we do stays, is castle, stacks, nothing has to be forgotten, every precedent will make history for the future. We are really putting some ugly, ugly bases for those who will come tomorrow, for those who will come later, because they will find huge mess, and maybe they will intervene with the same ease that you use today, so you can modify, skip or, above all, read in a partisan way what is written in correct Italian as it was done yesterday on unpacking: what no longer has its logic is a norm with its meaning cannot be unpacked, but this has been done equally. Probably, on the basis of this precedent, could live the famous saying of the German Chancellor Adenauer, who, always looking to the future and giving little importance to the words said the day before, said: "What do you want me to care about the nonsense I said the day before yesterday?" But it is not serious for a Parliament to do so! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u40	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I will try to simplify, because these are not issues in which I am an expert. However, if the opinion expressed today by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is an opinion which goes to delete, as you said a moment ago, the method which had previously been laid down in Rule 85 and Rule 85-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would then stick to what this opinion says. Today the Board for the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with previous and established practice, following the decision of the Board for the Rules of Procedure of 17 July 1996, confirms that it is the Presidency's power to make use of the so-called kangaroo rule also for the examination of constitutional bills. Compared to what I have heard before, I believe there is a vice in saying, first of all, that legal certainty can be found in political decisions. I think it is absurd to support this, but I consider it absolutely absurd what is the outcome of the Junta's opinion. How does the Committee on the Rules of Procedure confirm a faculty of the Presidency that was not there before? Before the expression of this opinion, which confirms the Presidency's ability to use the kangaroo rule also for the examination of the constitutional drafts, it is of course understood, in detail, that this option was not there. How, then, could the Presidency use a faculty that was not granted to it yesterday? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Is that it? It seems to me that, because of the arrangement of the Giunta's opinion and the logical consequence, not of the Italian language, but of the succession of pronunciations. In addition, although the Presidency wishes to delete it today (I would like to refer to Rule 85- bis of the Rules of Procedure, as my colleague Mr Crimes reminded us, so that: all right, we delete this reference; this can also pass) I appeal to the fact that what happened yesterday, that is, all the votes taken and all the kangarooed amendments, are clearly to be cancelled, in the light of today's opinion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I therefore ask: what is the procedure with regard to what happened yesterday from the moment you laid down the kangaroo rule, which, of course, was not laid down in the manner laid down in Rule 85-a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, but which today is said to have no value but as a reference? Leaving aside the passage that was, in my opinion, already out of logic and, therefore, impossible to apply and which led to the annulment of everything that came after, I repeat that my Group now considers that, in the light of this opinion, what the Presidency did about the amendments yesterday is not legitimate and must be cancelled. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I therefore formally request that everything that happened last night, after the application of the rule, be deleted and set off from the exact preceding point. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u41	Thank you for your contribution, but if Italian can still be useful, "confirm" means that you refer to something that already exists. Then, everyone can interpret it as they please. [[Applause from the PD Group]] PETROCELLI (M5S). That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u44	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to say that I am speaking personally and also with some difficulty. However, I believe that, when there is this obvious difficulty, it is precisely the time when we have to intervene; particularly when we lack the consent of the majority, I feel obliged to say what I think, even if I think that my point of view is a minority one. In a rule of law, the rules must provide certainty and cannot be interpreted according to the convenience of the stage or the objectives to be pursued. The rules must regulate the method, in particular the rules concerning an assembly like ours. So, in the face of this spectacle that concerns us all, no one excluded, starting with you, Mr President, you cannot be surprised that the Italian citizen, faced with the harshness of the law, finds his solutions. Because that's what we're doing today. With respect to the hardness of the rule, we interpret it, invent it and fold it according to the objectives of the phase we are experiencing. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] How then can we ask the Italians to respect the laws that we from this Parliament vary? [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] How is it possible to govern this country when we who are the authors of the rules use them according to the convenience? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] If there are political issues to be resolved - and there are - these cannot be resolved by forcing the rules. I say it for those who think like me and for those who don't think like me. The rule must be the method. We define merit in a relationship, which is also of strength but based on the numbers of democracy and not on the forcing of rules. I did a solitary battle at another stage in which the rule was again bent; I am referring to the affair involving former colleague Silvio Berlusconi. Faced with a rule that we have always applied so that for matters of a personal nature it would be worth the secret vote, we accepted the clear vote. Today we are at a similar stage. Mr President, I should like to ask myself: can we go on like this? [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u47	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I should like briefly to remind my fellow Members that lawyers are divided into two categories: those who regard law as an instrument to make institutions, society in general work well, and those who, on the other hand, consider it, or use it, as an instrument to prevent things from working. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In our system there is a fundamental hermeneutical canon which lays down in favour of the first category of lawyers. It says that any legal act must be interpreted and applied in view of its function. The first function of the Rules of Procedure of a branch of Parliament is to allow the widest possible comparison between the different opinions; moreover, to allow the minority to sometimes dramatize this confrontation, forcing the majority to pause for reflection, to double attention, on the most critical issues; but also the essential function of allowing a decision, at least by majority: not necessarily by unanimity. I wonder how the Members who have criticized the interpretation and application of our Rules of Procedure may fail to realize that, if their argument were well founded, any senator would have the opportunity to block any decision of the Senate at any time by submitting an unlimited number of amendments. It is clear that the Rules of Procedure, if it is to be able to carry out its third function as well, must be interpreted and applied in such a way that this obstacle can be overcome, while leaving all the space for discussion and discussion. It seems to me that everything can be said about these days of debate except that the minority has been prevented from expressing its views, except for the fact - if I am allowed to criticize the way in which this debate took place - that there has been too much room for discussion about the rules and too little discussion about the substance of the problems; but that certainly does not depend on the Presidency or on the intentions of the majority. I remind my colleagues of the Five Star Movement that the origin of their own movement, the best part of their inspiration, was the protest against the inconclusion of Italian politics and its institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] It seems to me that you are now becoming the main factor in a serious crisis of inconclusivity in this branch of Parliament, in one of the most important passages of the legislature. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask you then to reflect on the fact that your function can and must be to slow down the debate. If, however, as you are proposing, the objective is to paralyze Parliament, then be careful, because paralysis is the worst possible solution. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u48	Colleagues, for once I speak on the order of business. I remember that we are here to vote on the amendments. On the reading of the decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I am allowing one representative per Group to speak. After these speeches, we will continue our work in accordance with the agenda that has been set out. IN MAY (PI). I'm asking to talk. CARDINALI (PD). He's already spoken! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). He's already intervened! [[Senator Romano points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Di Maggio, asked for the intervention of the Roman leader. I said that there is only one intervention for the Group. You will have the opportunity, as happened in the past, to intervene and say yours. There are so many other procedural moments and we still have so many amendments to consider. I call Senator Romano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which took place this morning, I believe that a decision has arisen which is of comfort and encouragement to conduct yesterday by the President of the Senate. This is supported not by a subjective evaluation, but by a rigorous examination of the Regulations that in this case, in the context of the Senate, belong to the aforementioned articles 100, paragraph 8, and 102, paragraph 4, of the same Regulation. I believe that this is of further comfort not only to proceed according to the linear and correct guide you have held so far and for which I thank you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. For Italy, but I think it is also a warning for all of us to focus on continuing this extremely rich and problematic work, as we are talking about constitutional reform. Mr President, may I also address you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats? For Italy, our convinced solidarity and closeness because of the continuous, unjustified, vulgar and undeserved offenses, of which you were the object yesterday. Thank you, Mr President, and good work to all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u52	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, since I am not a constitutionalist or expert in these matters, I will say this very simply, starting from what I think is the real problem we are trying to address today. This problem was raised this morning. It all starts, in fact, from a debate this morning on a wise speech by Senators Mucchetti and Corsini, whom I thank and to whom I express my esteem for what they have said, introducing an element of common sense - the common sense that you mentioned, Mr President - and balance in the light of what happened yesterday and what is likely to happen again tonight and in the coming days. Let us then turn everything back to the real problem, which is not - in my opinion - the question of the interpretation of the norm. The problem is that we are trying to solve a problem of a fundamentally political nature by means of a rule, by means of technique. If we do not have the courage to face this and to say it clearly in our face, we will, as usual, make the figure of an unserious Italy - forgive me, I do not want to offend anyone - and we end up on the pages of the newspapers talking about kangaroos and technicalisms more or less ridiculous, losing sight of the real problem that - if you allow - to a neophyte like me immediately jumps to the eye. The problem is political and then it is politics that has to solve it. Senators Cucchetti, Corsini and all those who have spoken in this regard today are right. Senator Mauro reminded us of the same thing this morning. What's going on? What's the matter? We are facing the crux of constitutional reform. Almost all senators want - I first - to rewrite the rules of the Constitution. We had the enthusiasm to be able to rewrite the Constitution and this was an extraordinary task for those who came to be senator. We would like to do this, but in a calm way, through a balanced debate, in which everyone says what he thinks and votes on the basis of what he thinks. The government has put a basis for reasoning, but it has done so on the criteria of efficiency and cost reduction. I think we all agree on that. But then the problems posed by the government are those of representativeness and above all of governability. I think we all agree that the new constitutional reform gives the government the tool to give the country governance. I challenge anyone to prove that's not the case. But at this point where does the political problem arise? Where is the political knot? Why, yesterday, was there a bitter confrontation, a confrontation that certainly did not make us look good and of which we are all mortified? What is it? It's very simple. The first mistake: the government should have simply set the parameters, the rules, what it wanted to achieve. He cannot insist on writing the constitutional reform by claiming that it is divided between majority and opposition. This is the mistake the Minister made this morning when he wanted to differentiate majority and opposition. There must be no majority and no opposition on this issue. On this subject there must be senators who, animated by common sense, rewrite the norms of the Constitution, in order to ensure efficiency, governability and also representativeness. That's where the knot is. That's where the problem lies, where the mistake lies. The government should have set these guidelines and then let this House have the opportunity to do its duty, its work. He should have allowed the senators to work together to pull out the rules of the new Constitution, not dividing them by majority and opposition. We're writing the rules that keep a people, a nation together. They had to do so according to conscience and common sense and not just according to the rules of the law. You, President, are a man of law, while I belong to the world of medicine as a surgeon. Do you know what has helped me in 30 years to help people? Common sense. In the decisions of us doctors is the greatest rule, it is the most important and judgmental law. On the contrary, we are faced with a government that not only puts the Diktats on how to make constitutional reform, but even sets in motion a whole series of actions of public denigration of the institutions themselves. Look, Mr President, there are so many good people in here, each of us has a history of dignity, work, seriousness and honesty, and it is not possible for the President of the Council, who is the representative of the institutions, to come out of it by saying that we are a bunch of poor people stuck in the seats here. This offends me tremendously and offends me like it offends everyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Ferrara Mario.]] That's where the problem is. It is not possible to read newspapers every day and have this distorted view of things. And then the big lie: if we say that we want to streamline the institutions, if we say that we want to reduce expenditure, but what did we say in this House? We have said that we agree that the number of senators should be reduced to 100 senators, but that the number of Members should also be reduced. That's what we said, and we all said it. He doesn't answer the truth, so to say that senators care about their chair, it's not like that, it's a lie and nobody says it. That pisses off senators, that creates a fight, that inimicates people, that makes people fight. It's these twists, these lies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u53	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u54	COMPAGNONE (GAL). I'm almost done. The only way to get us out of this is politics, good politics, the one that makes people reason and makes them together. If we have identified these criteria, we reason outside the fences. This a good government should have done and I still hope that it has the ability to do, coming here and addressing the senators, because intelligence, dear President, is measured in the ability that you also have to go back, even to stop, even to say that you have wrong: it is an act of humility. It's also okay to say: I demand that you do constitutional reform within a week and I demand that it be done according to these criteria of savings, efficiency and governability. We are taking up this challenge and doing so by reasoning beyond the fences of majority and opposition. Look, Mr President, I am here to reduce the number of parliamentarians both in the Senate and in the House, and I am here to reduce spending and there is a government that can govern, just like Renzi, but you know what I think? I think that this cannot be imposed on me under the rules of this government, with the impossibility of giving people the right to vote directly on their representatives. That's where we don't understand each other. I am willing to accept the indirect election. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario]] I am not prepared to accept it if a government tells me this or a party party or party secretary imposes it on me, but for example if in this House the majority of senators decide, according to democracy, one by one, the sum of the many, which is better not to have a direct but indirect election.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u55	That's the second time I've asked him. The intervention was for procedural matters, but you are doing a wide-ranging intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u56	COMPAGNONE (GAL). The great problem, Mr President, is all there and we must have the courage to deal with it. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Stop! COMPAGNONE (GAL). This government must have the courage to come here and tell us to vote according to conscience and not according to majority and opposition, and then we would do a constitutional reform in a week, because we are not afraid to work, Mr Renzi does not have to teach us. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u59	This is the last speech on this issue. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We can't talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One per group, I said. GIARRUSSO (M5S). The Junta's decision is about all the senators, not just the groups! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, you have no title to speak. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Rude, what are you at the market? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Esposito, please. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I listened to Senator Ichino, the one in which he distinguished between lawyers who see the right as a means of doing things and those who see the right as an instrument of not doing things. I am not a lawyer, I am one of those citizens whose ignorance of the law is not excused. From this position, I see in the law the definition of a path to make it, following a road. From the decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, I note that you have been given a very great power and, together with it, an equally great responsibility. I have asked for it on several occasions and I am very much counting on its role as the guarantor of the rules and - since they basically guarantee minorities - as the guarantor of minorities in this House. Minorities cannot be guaranteed by the majority, because that would be an unconditional surrender. We have also said that in this House, in these two days, there have been mainly discussions on the rules and not substantive discussions. I note with bitterness that what has been done about the substance of the debate has not been accepted. The feeling is that the substantive discussions are accepted with a certain sufficiency, with a thought and a "not-so-called" of the type: But are we still talking about this? Can't we vote now? Therefore, what I ask of all is a special effort of attention, a willingness to listen to those who speak, a will to understand the reasons of the other, which are not compatible with the respect of an already written script, which must only be performed. Therefore, I would ask my colleagues in the majority, who so far have been the bearers of an absolutely monolithic line, except for a few generous exceptions, to listen to the reasons on the other and to make an effort of generosity, not to the minority - attention! ‐ but with regard to our role, because those who are minority today can be majority tomorrow and vice versa. I therefore call for an effort of generosity and respect for our role and attention to the substantive issues, to which I hope we can return as soon as possible, and in the light of which votes can be taken, which should not be made exclusively in the light of party discipline. It cannot and must not prevail over the attention, care, respect and reverence of the Constitution, to which we work, to modify it, but in accordance with its spirit. In fact, if we are to amend the Constitution outside the spirit of the Constitution, we are doing a very bad job: a very bad job, technically, and a very bad service to our fellow citizens. That is why I ask you to pay attention to what we are voting on, not through party discipline, but because every vote we are voting on today... PRESIDENT. Please conclude, Senator Campanella: the theme is another. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Of every vow we give today, each one of us will have to respond to himself before others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u61	You have the floor, although a representative of the Mixed Group has already spoken, Senator Petraglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u62	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Mr President. I shall try to be brief and to explain our thoughts on this first stage of the debate. In the course of the debate that took place yesterday we asked several times to bring together the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but this request remained largely unheard of. Perhaps, if we had gathered the Committee on the Rules of Procedure yesterday, we would be telling another day and another debate today. Mr President, we listened and read what you said at the resumption of the sitting this evening, and unfortunately we had no doubt about the outcome you would have presented to us. We would have hoped for a different outcome. On the other hand, we must note that in the junta for the Rules of Procedure - and I say this above all to those who listen to us - there are the same political dynamics that we are facing in this House. Therefore, we hope for an objective debate by making us strong about the rules and the certainty of the law, but we understand that this has not been the case. You told us that the decision came about with reference to illustrious precedents, the debate on devolution in past legislation and the revision of Part II of the Constitution, but you did not tell us that the cases in which the kangaroo rule was applied were very limited at the time. He then referred to Article 85, recalling that President Mancino recalled Article 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber which he applied during the examination of a decree-law, but failed to remember that the Chamber then amended that article by introducing Article 85-a which established that the rule of kangaroo does not apply to constitutional laws. He then referred to Rule 102 (4) of our Rules of Procedure, which is not exactly appropriate to the debate we are having and we wonder why he did not apply it to the end. Then comes to everyone a doubt. In fact, these days we are witnessing a very serious operation: the amendment of the Rules of Procedure which had been initiated during these months in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We consider this to be a very serious fact, because we are still convinced that the rules and the law must not be interpreted on the basis of the objectives to be achieved, but should be clear rules to be used precisely in complicated situations such as these, to be used to clarify and protect all, majority and opposition. Mr President, with our opposition we are exercising a right, we are not having fun preventing the debate because here, in this House, for two days, if there is anyone who prevents the debate, it is precisely the majority who has decided to do so. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] to apply a real obstructionism! As you have not heard before, continue not to listen. None of us are saying that he is not willing to make a real and serious constitutional reform, but we are asking to be heard. You have decided to make a constitutional reform by majority and all this is a shame because we are not changing a decree-law: we are changing the Constitution, the plan of the country - because we like to have long-term thoughts, not short-term thoughts - from here to the next thirty years. You cannot do this without the broad sharing of the political forces that are here, who may have even taken small percentages in the elections, but here there are, represent citizens and exercise the right that Senate laws and regulations allow. I conclude, because I have promised to be brief, and I ask myself: these forcings that we have been living for two days and that hurt politics, that hurt the country, that are not useful to anyone, what are they for but to degrade and take away dignity from an institution like the Senate? We would not like to enroll - we have never done so in this year - neither to the party of the "break them all up" nor to the "send them all home." We think, however, that the moral level of our country must also rise from this debate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u63	I declare the debate closed on this point. We have discussed more of the Rules of Procedure of the House than of ours, but I would like to point out that if for the constitutional drafts the Chamber has that rule, there are also others that concern the way in which to manage the amendments also referring to the constitutional drafts of law. That's exactly what I'm saying. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, the Divine Senator has already spoken for the Group, so I do not give you the floor on this issue. As I said, the debate is closed. Let us resume the agenda: you will have the opportunity to speak on the matter. The Divine Senator spoke: I said that the debate is closed, one spoke for the Group and for his, Senator Candiani, the Divine Senator spoke. Senator Candiani, please, let's not exasperate. I made everyone talk. He began the Divine Senator on this subject. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's not up to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've already talked about the rules, so what else do we need to talk about? Let's move on to the agenda. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). She gives me the floor and then eventually takes it away from me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm sorry, Senator. You'll have the floor as soon as you have a chance to speak. This debate is now closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1453, of which we shall vote on the first part, because there will be a kangaroo, a small kangaroo, a kangaroo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u67	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the amendment is very clear and raises the fundamental question, on which we have never had an answer, of the reduction of Members of Parliament, the House and the Senate, which is the real issue on which we have always faced ourselves when you talk about the twenty years. However, Mr President, when you put the first part of an amendment to the vote, I would kindly like you to inform us exactly of the amendments which are then foreclosed, which you did not do yesterday, by kangarooing 600 pages of amendments. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u68	By voting for the first part of Amendment No 1,1453, to the floor: Six hundred thirty, the remaining part of the amendment and the subsequent part of Amendment No 1,1491 are foreclosed. That is the vote we are preparing for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u71	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say two things. As we are still voting on Article 1, as has already been said with President Fedeli, electronic voting has already been requested for the first time, so this is how it continues. Yesterday, in fact, he said that it was useless to ask, because it had already been done. So get on with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u72	Let's get this straight. Since there are different leave for each sitting, it is best to request an electronic vote for each sitting, so even if we are still examining Rule 1. I say this more precisely. If anyone wants to ask for it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u73	Having said that, I would like to make an explanation of vote on amendment 1,1453, on the number of Members, because I think it is very important. It is paradoxical that we want to talk about reducing the number of senators, also because we work little and badly. Just today a job done very well appeared on a national newspaper in which it is said that the Letta Government, remained in office from 28 April 2013 to 21 February 2014, for a total of 300 days, i.e. 9 months and 25 days, approved 35 laws, of which 25 decree-laws, 4 draft laws and 6 draft laws of ratification. The article continues with the Monti Government. We must understand - this has already been said and no one has given me an answer - what we mean by productivity, because if our work is evaluated for the number of laws produced, then it is interesting: in a year that I am here I have already seen four decrees talking about the ILVA, I do not know how many talked about the IMU and so on. So I think it's not the amount of laws that we have to keep in mind, but quality, because intervening four times on the same subject I think it's madness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'd like you to judge a surgeon who, after the surgery, notices something wrong and operates the same patient four times. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : You would certainly report him for manslaughter and send him home. You don't understand why the surgeon sends him home and who proposes these kind of decrees instead is not sent home. Having said that, I am voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u74	Is there a request that votes be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u77	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I would insist on the method - which we had already assumed - of calling all votes by electronic procedure, once a request has been made as has been done for the entire article.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u78	The problem is that at the beginning of each sitting we have to verify the support, we do it on this occasion, it takes a moment. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1453, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "six hundred thirty". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1453 and amendments 1,1454 to 1,1491 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,1492.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u81	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like the amendment to be voted on separately, first putting the part to the vote until the words 'are deleted' and then the following period, from the number '2' to the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u82	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1,1492, tabled by Senator Martelli. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u85	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. In the light of what Senator Palma said yesterday about the criteria for separating the amendments, if you go back to the House every time and the opposition asks for the amendment to be divided, it is obvious that you will always be lost. Is it a decision-making power that could also be put back to you, Mr President, or not? You tell me, Senator Palma, since you're more educated and competent than I am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u86	Look, Senator Bencini, don't conflict us. Already the magistrates are often in conflict, let's leave the former magistrates alone. It decides the Rules of Procedure, which is clear on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u87	Mr President, I would also like to propose, again on Amendment No 1,1492, a different division of the proposal for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u88	The request for a split vote has already been rejected, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u89	PUGLIA (M5S). So that's not possible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1492, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1493, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1493 and amendments 1.1494 to 1.1498 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1499, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1500, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1501, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1502, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1503, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "six hundred and thirty". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1503 and amendments 1.1504 to 1.1541 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u92	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification. You put an amendment to the vote a moment ago, pointing out the opposite opinion of the rapporteur and the government. I would ask you whether you were referring to both rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u93	I mentioned the speakers and the government. When there is a difference of opinion between the two rapporteurs, this is nevertheless mentioned. Furthermore, as you know, the rapporteurs have already stated in advance in this House on which amendments there is a difference of opinion. In any case, the Presidency will repeat it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1542, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of amendment 1,1543, until the words "is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u96	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order. I do not understand how we can vote on this amendment until the words 'is replaced by the following.' I understand the situation, but there is a limit to everything. In particular, I would like to address my colleagues in the Democratic Party, former DS: as long as someone remains, as a left-wing Democrat. Do you remember the left word, which perhaps no longer exists? [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u97	Senator Crimes, please stick to the reason for your intervention, so that everyone has confidence in what you are contesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u98	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, at least let me finish the speech. Then you'll give me your answer, I won't argue, and then we'll be done. So please let me finish the speech. I just want to remind you that on 28 November 2005 we heard Senator Bassanini repeat continuously, intervening for the DS, voting on amendments without regulatory scope and that the practice of kangaroo was not allowed. Go look at the sessions on that date. I'll get them for you; tomorrow I'll give you the sheets with all the speeches in which you challenged the majority of Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having said that, Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity to make another request. I would like to know whether the timing - as I have been informed - used for the speeches on the order of business, for the points of order or for the debate on the kangaroo has been taken from the Group, because, if so, at the end of this quota period means that no senator can ever ask for a comma or a separate vote again; he will no longer be able to ask for anything. I would like this clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u99	There is no need for clarification. His Holding Company is the one that manages the timing for the Group's interventions. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We want an answer! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the answer from reading the article, for even those who listen to us at home understand what this exceptional thing is about. Amendment 1.1543 proposes replacing paragraph 1 with the following: ==References====External links== In the first paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution, the word "twelve" is replaced by the following: "four" The next amendment proposes replacing the word "twelve" with the word "five"; the next amendment with the word "six"; the next amendment with the word "seven"; the next amendment with the word "eight"; the next amendment with the word "ten." What do we have to vote on, all the amendments? Let this be clear for those who listen to us. [[Extended applause from the PD, NCD and PI groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]] Please, let's not exasperate, because I don't like this. It was just to clarify. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Senator Giarrusso, have a seat. GIARRUSSO (M5S). They're not the same, just like ten years in prison isn't five! Shame on you! They're not all the same! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1543, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "is replaced by the following: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1543 and amendments 1.1544 to 1.1548 are therefore excluded. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We want an answer to our times!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u102	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have seen that you wanted to read carefully the various hypotheses concerning the number of Members elected abroad. Perhaps we should look at the debate we have had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where - and it is brought about as a major change - there has been a long debate and I also think there has been a great deal of negotiation between the Groups on the number of representatives of the Regions (two, three or four). The numbers, Mr President, when it comes to giving lessons, are not a purely arithmetic issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There has been a very long debate on the number of MEPs elected abroad, and here too I invite you to read. It is clear, Mr President, that different changes have been made, as in the previous case of kangaroo. When you think that a House with 300 Members is equal, compared to a House with 450 or 500, you obviously do not want to understand - for this reason we contest the use of kangaroo in this way - that there are hypotheses and many, various and articulated discussions on the various points. Since you, at the opening of each sitting, read out the many draft laws that have been discussed - I say - together with this, you may have the wisdom to go and see that in them there are proposals ranging from those of Senator Chiti, who I think proposes 315 Members of the House, to ours, who propose 450. Each of these has its dignity and rationality. So I would ask you, Mr President, not to be ironic about the numbers of Members elected abroad. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1549, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.1550, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and to amendment 1,1551, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Senator Blondo points out that she wants to intervene.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,1552. GIARRUSSO (M5S). President, look at Senator Blundo asking to speak! Good manners! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is Senator Giarrusso's voice. We were in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u106	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1.1549. It's okay. I'm doing it on this amendment. Mr President, these are amendments which call for a reduction in the age of those who can be elected. It is proposed that voters who have reached the highest age, then the adult, go from 25 years to a lower age. I think that we all want young people to be more involved in Italy and have a say, since they have a great capacity, not only intellectual, but creative and everything else. Mr President, I wonder why we decided to amend only a few articles of the Constitution: in fact, with another amendment I was asking to deal with Article 50 of the Constitution, allowing young people also to make referendums and proposals, but it was considered inadmissible. We proceed, therefore, with this reform of the Constitution that, in addition to the use of the "kangaroos" (which could also be questionable, especially that of yesterday with 1,400 amendments skipped), even directs the changes only on some articles, having refused to consider the possibility to revise other articles of the Constitution. My vote will therefore be in favour of this amendment and I would also ask you to reflect, since perhaps the young people in here would do better than us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u109	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I regret to have to repeat myself, but yesterday I asked for courtesy - it was a way of saying to be as polite as possible in the request - to ask if there are explanations of vote and, then, possibly, dissenting statements, before starting the vote. It seems to me that we actually find it hard to keep up with the votes. Moreover, it makes a big difference for me to vote that the future Senate or Chamber of Deputies, in this particular case, should be composed of people at least twenty-five years of age, rather than eighteen or twenty-one. For example, I do not see rationality in the age of twenty-one, because it is an old idea of greater age that has been gone for decades in Italy. The age of eighteen, on the other hand, is the age when one is now of age and is able to understand and want in full; one is responsible for his actions and one can become absolutely both parliamentarians and senators. So we're talking about really important things. If there isn't even time to raise your hand and ask to speak in an explanation of vote, I think we are actually impoverishing the work of all of us. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u110	I also have the greatest cooperation with the Bureau in giving me an early warning of any signal of intervention. After that, I ask whether it is an explanation of vote, because it is clear what happens if we continue with the speeches on the order of business. However, I accept your request for slowing down, even if the timing is shorter. Senator Di Maggio asks to speak in an explanation of vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u111	No, Mr President, I do not speak in an explanation of vote or on the order of business, but on the regularity of the proceedings of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] I have two vices: using the language to express opinions and listen. Listening to your answer to what Senator Casson asked you at the beginning of this sitting, I have checked that perhaps your position has become somewhat inappropriate in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have been waiting for you to give me the shorthand report, because your answer is at least embarrassing compared to the third-party you should have in this House. I read his answer (textual words): Therefore, the need to balance and balance the decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Groups, to set deadlines for achieving a result - I repeat, this is a political decision - and the powers of the President to ensure that this result is achieved. This means that you are practically facilitating the political choices of this majority. I wonder right now if you're in a third-party position. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u112	Your parliamentary experience is the same as mine, and I understand perhaps late that the Leaders express politics. Therefore, having said that politics is expressed in the Conference of Leaders does not seem to me to be a statement that affects my third party. After that, I would like to thank you for once again highlighting what I have said and in which I believe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u113	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u114	Senator Giarrusso, you have finally been able to ask for the floor on the order of business. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u115	I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian GIARRUSSO (M5S). The subject is the one raised by my colleague, the regularity of the work and of these votes. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u116	Can't you follow them? GIARRUSSO (M5S). I am very concerned; we are all of the 5 Star Movement and so are many of many other Groups, and also outside this House. We are very concerned because what is written, with a round of words, in the House's report, with regard to what you have said and which you have read, is brutally called the end justifies the means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u117	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] The end would be the result, the problem is the means. Mr President, the means are our democracy which cannot be trampled on for any result, because it does not belong to the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u118	I'd like you to come to the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u119	GIARRUSSO (M5S). I am speaking on the order of business with regard to the regularity of voting. We have seen a fact that many have stigmatized, identifying it: I am referring to the fact that the progress of the work and the prerogatives of the minority were put back to the vote of the majority. Mr President, this is a very serious problem that our constituent Fathers worked on for months in 1946. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is what makes our Constitution at the forefront and beautiful, because our Constitutional Constitutions of 1946 had present the collapse of two constitutional democratic systems, the German one of Weimar, collapsed under the Nazi regime, which was a parliamentary system, and the Albertine one that had the Constitution, also collapsed under the fascist regime, which was parliamentary and elective. Then there was a problem: Constitutions are not enough. They have therefore placed a limit, Mr President, on what a majority in Parliament can do, identifying it in a series of referees: one of them is the Constitutional Court, which was the innovation of our Constitution. But there is not only the Constitutional Court, Mr President. You're here, as President of the Senate! You are an referee of these limits! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You are an referee of what a majority in this country can or cannot do! So, Mr President, I am very concerned because we see, more and more, every day, these limits trampled on for one terrible and horrible purpose; to concentrate the executive power in the hands of only one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're not gonna let you do this!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u120	Thank you for your contribution to the order of business. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,1553... Sorry, moviola, let's go back. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1552, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1553, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1554, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1555.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u122	You have the right to do so. It seems to me that your amendment has been appreciated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u123	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I very much appreciate the fact that in addition to the kangaroo there is also shrimp, because when you go back it is known that there is shrimp.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u124	Senator Azzollini, I'm sorry to interrupt. Since I wouldn't want the kangaroo on Senator Buccarella's desk to become senator, I would ask the assistants to get that kangaroo off the table. [[Senator Buccarella stirs a stuffed kangaroo. Senator Santangelo's protests.]] I beg the quaestors to have him removed. Puppets are not allowed in the Chamber. Soon we'll find the shrimp in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u125	Mr President, I have already said that I do not share the thrust of this reform. I have therefore tabled Amendment 1.1555 for a somewhat provocative reason. The Senate has the functions that are given to it by Article 1 of the Constitutional Bill, but I remember that in no other nation exists the State-Regions Conference and the State-City Conference which have minor powers in some ways, but, as we will see later, in other ways, of this Senate (and I do not think that this reform deals with it, not having those immediate constitutional relief bodies). Since the government is leading us as a fundamental prerequisite to reducing costs, in life we can be a little more coherent: it is better that the Senate gets rid of itself and there would be no problems that we would otherwise have. If, at this point, functions can only be so few and in some ways, in cases of recall of the measure, they can even lead to a less fast, slower course for legislative activity, which, as we know, is not very good, then I would like to make a contribution to speed. If you take off the Senate, it's clear that everything is faster. There is a country, for example, Israel that has only one House. There are examples of monocameralism such as the Israeli Parliament, as well as other examples and of course there can be various models of Chambers to be inspired by. However, Mr President, since the debate has taken on the tones that we all know, perhaps - as far as I am concerned - paradoxical terms are not even more useful, and paradoxes I have seen many of these days in this House. Then, at this point, having explained the point of this amendment, I would prefer to proceed with its withdrawal. I shall proceed with the withdrawal in order to prevent arguments from taking place which are not consistent with the original approach I have given him. I would like to take this opportunity, however, Mr President, to say to you about the existence of the Senate - I do so only as a mere peroration - that the Senate of the Italian Republic and the Chamber of Deputies are at this moment the only Western European Parliament that is working and at this rate, the last. I believe that only the Duma of the Russian Federation is open and perhaps, if I am not mistaken, the Iranian Parliament. Therefore, by withdrawing the amendment, I would like to take this opportunity to ask that this Parliament should have more and more, not for other reasons, but only because of its closeness of inspiration, in accordance with those of the Western Parliaments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u126	Senator Azzollini, turn it into a agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u127	[[Vibrating protests from the M5S Group]] As you concluded hoping... Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, my position on this is very precise. I don't even resort to other means. It is clear that I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn and I do not accept that other signatures should be affixed to it. In this way I close the problem in order to prevent others from arising. MARTON (M5S). Stop! TAVERNA (M5S). Go ask him!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk. [[Lives protests from Senators Crimes and Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u130	They asked Senator Uras to intervene first, then Senator Bisinella and then you, Senator Crimi. I'm following the order of the requests made. CRIMI (M5S). I asked to intervene before Senator Azzolini! URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am sorry that Senator Azzollini withdrew this amendment, which we would have convincedly voted on. We think, in fact, that this is not an armchair that we must defend, but the state that we must make President Azzollini work, it was much more useful to have his idea of reference to the State-Regions-Local Conference, to its possibility of strengthening, to its capacity to be strengthened to produce norms through an agreement system...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u131	Senator Uras, I'm sorry to interrupt. As the amendment was withdrawn, I gave you the floor. However, before we speak about this order... - Excuse me for the slip - on this amendment, let's check if someone does it themselves and then, if anything, we discuss it. URAS (Misto-SEL). President, I'll do it myself. [[Brusio]] All right, you asked to intervene first. Anyone who wants to sign it will then be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u132	I do so because it would be a way to speed up the debate a lot, and it is an invitation that I also make to my colleagues in the Democratic Party: by clearing the field from the Senate game we could focus better on Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which is an important point of amending the Constitution. If the government were consistent with the idea of the Senate and the senators, it would not miss the opportunity that we are offering it to invite its majority to abolish the article concerning the establishment of the Senate of the Republic. We challenge the Government to accept the idea that bicameralism in Italy is radically overcome and finally access to a clearly functioning monocameral system with this perspective. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] We invite the majority not to produce a "senaticchio" that will not work and will not produce positive effects in the production regulations for the country; A country that needs answers and concrete and valid answers, in times that require the emergence of this country's economic and employment crisis. To this proposal, we ask for an answer from the majority and the government. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u135	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to subscribe on behalf of myself and my Group to Amendment 1,1555, for a very simple consideration. Rather than a new Senate like what you are outlining with this reform, that is, debased in its role and functions, which takes away power from the Regions, a Senate of nominees, and to show the Renzi Government that there is no one here in the oppositions and in the Northern League Group that is attached to the chair, then rather we prefer the abolition tout court of the Senate. We support the amendment and want to ask for it to be voted on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u138	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I usually begin by apologizing, because I always have to learn in this House, but I have to do this aloud and I address you, Mr President, and those on the other side, that is, in the PD files. Do you think that bringing home a constitutional reform, that is, this reform that will be approved in a few days, will be a good and useful thing for the country? Do you think that by winning with five, six, ten points off and not finding the right convergence to make this reform belong to all Italians, will you do a good service to Italy? Or will you prove out of Italy that there is a torn Parliament, that cannot find lines of convergence in the interest of our country? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Senate, that forgive me for the expression I use with great bitterness, that by cheating those who in good faith are trying to give you suggestions, trying to explain to these children that there are a majority and a minority here and that you have applied and that you are applying the rules of democracy and fairness? But fairness is what there is at the moment a Group that is trying to forcefully carry out certain reforms without listening to those who think differently. Mr President, you who are wise, how can you explain to a young man who comes today for the first time to be a senator, that there are a majority and opposition on constitutional reforms? How can you think of a reform, I stress a reform, making sure that there is not a serious desire within this Parliament to build, but only and exclusively the attitude of prevarication towards someone's part? [[Applause from Senator Giarrusso.]] Mr President, I am taking responsibility now, at this very moment, for saying what I think. But wouldn't it be more appropriate to find a system and a solution, in the interest of Italy? Or is the solution to say that there is a group that won and one that lost? Italians don't understand it, they won't understand it and we won't do a good service to Italy. Who looks at us from the outside thinks that we are - I beg your pardon - a gang of cowards! [[Protests from the PD Group and government benches.]] We cannot tell those who think otherwise than we do that there is a majority and a minority on constitutional reforms! Mr President, you who should be a super party and which I referred to as a balance point yesterday, cannot make such a statement today, which I repeat for the third time. Dear colleagues, when you bring this reform home, with everything that is happening and that will happen, you will cause an unscathed rift within the country and we do not know, at this moment, what the negative effects could be on us and our children. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] I apologize to all of you, but I am used to speaking with my heart and with clarity. I'm a party man. [[Repented comments from the PD Group.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). What party? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, please be quiet. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I am a party man, but I am free, because my President and those who were my teachers taught me to say what I think and my strength lies precisely in the freedom to say my thoughts forcefully. In conclusion, Mr President, I would ask you to be the referee, to protect the weakest and to protect the reform, in the interests of the country and not in the interests of a group or a person. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Scilipoti, I ask you if your explanation of vote is in favour or against: I did not understand it. [[Laughter.]] I understand that he is opposed to this amendment, but I would like to be sure. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Then you have made a mistake, Mr President, because I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u141	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I asked to speak before Senator Azzollini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Forget it, because we've established this. But I ask that the senators secretary be a little more awake: let's put it this way. [[Comments of Senator Di Giorgi.]] This amendment is the answer to what has been announced. Everything comes from the words of Prime Minister Renzi, who said: "We will abolish the Senate." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The first words he announced were these: We will overcome bicameralism and abolish the Senate. Then all citizens have convinced themselves that the Senate will no longer exist and even someone who is no longer there, if it were not for this opposition that we are doing today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But I want to go into the matter, since we have complained that we have not done so, to show you that a Senate as it is built in this bill is better to abolish it. [[Applause from Senator Catalfo.]] In fact, the bill provides that the Senate is composed of 100 senators, all elected by regional councillors, among regional councillors. So what happens? We will have regional advisers who, in the post-work of the Regional Council, will go to the Senate Halls, which will remain open, because there will have to be a Chamber and the officials and offices will have to be there. And we don't want to give senators a refund for travel expenses? Imagine if we do not refund the diary and travel expenses of the senators: we would miss it, since the performance of this activity is free of charge. Then, just because it's free, but who makes him do it to make us commit ourselves to the activity of senator? Who makes these regional councillors do it? This is the Senate we'll have. But there's more. This Senate will be a lottery, because since it will be elected by the Regional Councils, which are elected according to different dynamics, different electoral laws, at different historical times, we will have a changing Senate. It is enough, for example, that Lombardy changes the Regional Council, because perhaps the President of the Junta resigns or is investigated and is forced to resign (an example we had a few years ago and we have him in this House, we have welcomed him here with such warmth). [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] This can happen. A region like Lombardy, which puts in the field between 12 and 15 senators (now the precise number I don't know), can change the balance of the majority of these hundred senators. I remember it's only a hundred! What happens if this majority, which is a lottery that can change from year to year, from month to month because the regional councils dissolve one every two months in this period [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have seen it: Calabria, Abruzzo, everywhere, as long as there is a problem and the Regional Council is dissolved. Well, what's going on? That this Senate will be able, within twenty days - I calm down, Mr President, because it is long until 8 August - to ask that all, all the bills approved by the House be examined by the Senate to give an opinion. The law is therefore passed by the House and the Senate on the twentieth day, because it may be of a different color, and therefore has a different majority (it makes it on purpose), recalls to itself all the laws within twenty days, to the twentieth day. After that you have thirty days to give an opinion, an opinion that is of no use - let's face it - because on the other hand the other side the coffin. In total therefore fifty days. The House has ten days to deliberate (perhaps it is the opposite: ten days the Senate and twenty days the House). Anyway, in total, 60 days. The law cannot be promulgated for sixty days. So, in fact, this efficiency will paralyze all laws that can be blocked for sixty days before their promulgation. This is what will happen and this can change from month to month for a stop here and a stop there in the Senate of the Italian Regions [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why we shall be voting in favour of the abolition of the Senate, and we therefore support Amendment 1.1555. We ask Senator Uras, who has done so, if he agrees that the entire 5 Star Movement Group subscribes to the amendment. The abolition of the Senate now vote for it! Let's prove who wants to keep the seats! We will vote for the abolition of the Senate! (Live applause from the M5S Group). I would also ask for the separate vote on the amendment. The first part up to the words "Govern" and the other the paragraph beginning with "Govern" accordingly. [[Live applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Everyone home! Everyone home! [[Senator Puglia shakes his arms to draw the Presidency's attention.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u142	Senator Puglia, what are you doing? The city guard?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u145	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, of course I was an urban watchman because, probably, those who have to fly this House do not see us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u146	She managed a little too much, actually.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u147	PUGLIA (M5S). Before we move on to the vote, I would like to... president. The debate is not allowed. PUGLIA (M5S). I would like to propose a further separation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me. PUGLIA (M5S). So is it possible to proceed with the split vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A separate vote has already been requested. His own group has asked for it. If you complete your Group's proposal on how to separate the text, you are allowed to speak. Other discussions are not allowed and the vote is taken. PUGLIA (M5S). So that's not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't say that. What do you ask? PUGLIA (M5S). Are we on Amendment 1.1556?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u148	This is Amendment 1.1555. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on amendment 1,1555, tabled by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, the result is so clear that this time I don't admit it. The result is very clear and the secretary senators confirm that. [[Lively protests from Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u151	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to confirm very quickly that the time spent by Senator Scilipoti on his speech must be recorded in the time of the dissenters of Forza Italia and therefore not in that of the Group. I must also apologise to the whole House, by sitting Senator Scilipoti still among the benches of Forza Italia, for the inappropriate expressions he has addressed to this House. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u152	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1555, tabled by Senator Azzollini and other senators, withdrawn by the proposer and subsequently made by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] URAS (Misto-SEL). Then you don't want to abolish it! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You want to keep your seats! Now it's clear who wants to keep the chairs and who doesn't! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1556.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u155	[[Warm protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] I invite Senators Quaestors and Leaders to cooperate. Senator Marton, have a seat. Senator Sollo, please. Senator Minzolini, if you start talking, maybe your speech can draw attention. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had actually asked for the floor before. You didn't see me or you forgot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I haven't forgotten. Nobody reported it to me, and I'm afraid I haven't seen it. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). I asked for it, but at this point I am speaking on Amendment 1.1556. Compared to the speeches we have made before, I have always said publicly, on every occasion, that in my opinion the two hypotheses or the abolition of the Senate or an elective Senate are the only ones to be able to give a precise picture of the legislation that we are going to approve. The Senate outlined in the reform is a body that would be absolutely harmful, that risks becoming nothing more than a sort of union of the local authorities, moreover when we went to define the tasks. So I challenge the government, rather I appeal to the government to adopt the following position: the Senate must be abolished completely, also because, compared to the speeches we make, in which every proposal is measured in terms of costs, in this case, instead of saving only 40 million of the emoluments we would save all 560 million! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is what we need to think about. If this is the meter, I think the Senate, if it is not elective, besides being useless, becomes expensive and harmful. So I would ask Mr Boschi and Mr Lotti to speak for this proposal to the President-in-Office of the Council, who always takes up this issue, so that he can take it up. Otherwise - I say this frankly - it means that the Government has the will to defend the seats of a ruling class, that of the local authorities, from which the current President of the Council comes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then I challenge them, openly and publicly, to perform such an operation. It would be an operation of truth and we would also give everyone a chance to express themselves explicitly without creating shadows. Let's face it, President: Demagogue, Demagogue and a half. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u158	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business in the light of the previous vote. Yesterday the President of the Council had the courage, with the grace of a Gian Burrasca, to define... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What does this have to do with the order of business? SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! AIROLA (M5S). It's got to do with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me get this straight. AIROLA (M5S). Let me explain to you: since we have just voted on an amendment which would abolish this Senate and since you are the President, the highest figure of this assembly, then I would like you to make statements on this matter. In fact, yesterday the President-in-Office of the Council, who is not just any citizen, but the President-in-Office of the Council, once again accused us all - you understand of course - of defending our seats. I honestly believe that we can also shout, do what we want here among ourselves (and there is no problem, because we are all senators), but it is not acceptable that the highest government figure in Italy, the Prime Minister, should allow us to treat ourselves in this way. So, since we have no voice, because the media outside are passing on the information that we are here defending our seats, you who have the authority to do so, Mr President, give a statement explaining to the Italian citizens that we are not here to defend our seats. Please: I believe that this is fundamental and I believe that it is your duty, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your contribution to the order of business, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u161	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for two reasons. First of all, I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 1.1556 for separate parts. If you will allow me, I will tell you how I would have thought of separating the amendment: the first part goes from "Replace the paragraph" until "direct universal suffrage"; the second part from "Each member of the Chamber of Deputies" to "of the Municipalities". The third part from the Chamber of Deputies to the territory of the Chamber of Deputies; the fourth part clearly is the last period of the amendment. This is my first request. I would also like to make an explanation of vote on this amendment. This is an important amendment and I asked for a split vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u162	I would not like to interrupt you, but I would like to put to the vote first your proposal to vote on the separate parts amendment and then give you the floor for the explanation of vote, so you will know whether the vote will take place by separate parts and your statement may be more complete. Montevecchi (M5S). Okay. But then I'd like to make the statement, if you remember. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on amendment 1,1556, tabled by Senator Montevecchi. It's not approved. Please, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u163	We will clearly vote in favour of this amendment, because this proposal wants to re-introduce the electivity of the Senate, which I believe is an essential condition for giving Italians a reform that is respected. Not to foresee an elective Senate means to deprive once again what little rights have remained to the Italians, one of which is the right to vote and the right to vote for the people who will be sent to represent us. It is a right that has already been removed from us by a law defined by its own extensor "Porcellum": a law that has been declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional and one of the points of unconstitutionality is precisely the lack of preference. This is a similar case, because taking away from citizens the power to choose their representatives means betraying what is the founding principle of our nation, or that our Republic is based on the principle that the people are sovereign. And when a person is sovereign, it means that he can decide, that he has the power to decide. The direct participation of citizens is already limited; in this reform it tends to be even more so by increasing the signatures necessary for the deposit of the law of popular initiative. And here I answer Senator Ichino. The problem with popular initiative laws is not that they are too many, but that they remain covered up, because they contain good measures, measures that go against the interests of those who have always glued their "ass" on these armchairs. That is the case with the referendums. We shall vote in favour of this amendment and I ask the people of common sense, the courageous people, who sit not only among our benches, but also among the benches of the other political forces, to pull out the attributes, as you asked yesterday to do Vito Crimi, and to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u166	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I am convinced that I am voting in favour of this amendment to the elective Senate, with the same conviction that, a few minutes ago, we voted in favour of the abolition of the Senate itself. This is because we want to reiterate, with these two votes, expressed one after the other, a few minutes away, that what really does not hold, in the event that is taking place during these days is the proposal of a Senate (what will be in the future) that will not have solved the question of the costs and the political problems that have opened up over all these years; a Senate that will have maintained a series of difficulties and that will have simply renounced universal suffrage. And you understand very well that the emphasis of the "simply" is very indicative. I have been saying for days, and I repeat this for the hundredth time, to the Government and the majority, that we are facing a real propaganda operation. It's a populist operation. It's a demagogic operation that's being built. A real narrative has been built, according to which the main culprit of the difficulties of this country, of the moral crisis, of the economic crisis and of what is happening is to be found within this difficulty of the institutions. I think this thesis is profoundly wrong, because it creates a monstrosity from the point of view of political culture. It will take years to recover the cultural disaster you are causing. I say this in a heartfelt way, for the umpteenth time, to the senators, in particular those of the Democratic Party, because I know their political culture and have heard them, in the past years (and I still hear them today, not in the Chamber but in the corridors) express, in a low voice, dissensions on some elements that are inherent in the democracy of this country and that build a narrative that is propaganda narration, even used as a real weapon of mass distraction. We talk about the belly of the country. It throws to the public the story of overcoming the Senate and the caste blow, not to mention the great social and economic issues open in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, you are making a huge mistake and over the years you will pay (in fact, we will all pay) this mistake and this failure. It was necessary to be firm, immobile, before the flood of demagogy and populism built to art throughout all these years. Now you will probably win. Now the President-in-Office of the Council will probably win because he uses the same weapons and languages. But in the long run he'll lose. In the long run those who are more populist and more demagoguery than he will win, because, when you agree to descend on that ground, when you accept the ground of demagogy, when you accept the ground of populism, when you do not build a cultural barrier against demagogy and against populism, in the end those who are even more populist win. Indeed, those who, over the years to come - you will see - will make this Republic and this Constitution very different from how we have known them all these years and very, very different from how the sacrifice of those who built the Republic and the great work of the constituent Fathers have made us live it in sixty years at the end important of republican history. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u169	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of amendment 1,1556, confirming what Senator Minzolini himself said. We do not necessarily have to win this parliamentary battle. I remind myself of what Camus writes in the last part of "The Myth of Sisyphus," when he tells us that even the effort to reach the goal is enough to fill the heart of a man; one must imagine Sisyphus happy. It is not necessary for the boulder to remain on the top of the summit; it rolls downstream. But it is not useless what we are doing in these days and hours in this House, because outside the wall of conformism of the press right and left codinas is feeding in public opinion - as Minzolini said and as Crimes and other colleagues said - a wrong idea, a false and false stereotype, according to which there are those who want to reform the Republic and those who want to preserve the status quo ante. At the moment that this amendment wants to decree the closure of the Senate, I believe that no one can accuse us of wanting the natural life laticlavium during. Once this is clear, I have another consideration. I come, I've been elected and I'm a member of the Forza Italia party. I remember that in 1994, when great intellectuals like Marcello Pera, Antonio Martino, Giuliano Urbani and later Lucio Colletti, Saverio Vertone, Dario Antiseri (that is, the Gotha of liberal intellectuals) wrote the program of Forza Italia, if I remember correctly we were sure for the end of bicameralism, but we were also certainly for the direct election of the President of the Republic. That is, when one of the counterweights fell, we gave the Italian people the opportunity to choose the controller, who is the Head of State, the notary, who is the depositary of the fate and good administration of the Government and the State. To feel silenced by my friend Paolo Romani... For the truth I do not share the way in which Senator Scilipoti has expressed himself, but I believe that - I do not want to recall Erasmus - here the crowd is not Scilipoti; the madman is the one who has forgotten the values, roots and values of reference of the Italian liberal right and who, for calculations more or less petty, more or less contingent, wants to accredit the liberal right and the party of Forza Italia as a subordinate party, codino and irrelevant compared to the rising tide of renzism, which is the pneumatic vacuum. Then I don't know if there's a time dedicated to dissidents. If there is this time, I join the dissidents' party, rather than the dissenters' party, which is different. Because I have to tell the truth and I want to make an announcement here in the House: I think we should join a new party. I would call it "wait party" and should have a statute that consists of a single article, which reads as follows: no matter what happens, we threaten to wait. I say this because I do not understand what the role is, what is the main party of the centre-right is playing in this House, except to keep the sack to a libertic reform whose aims are not understood and to give in the hands of the Democratic Party and Matteo Renzi, with a limited number of votes, the nomination of parliamentarians, a Senate which is already in the left-wing majority, the appointment of the Head of State, the two-thirds of the Constitutional Court and a third of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. These are the practical repercussions of this liberticidal barbarism. We can't turn around. If it is true, as it is true, that we do not defend the chair and if it is true, as it is true, that we were the defenders of freedom (in fact, when someone, a few days ago, correctly reminded us that the difference between the right and the left consists in the fact that the right considers man at the center of society and not the State), we cannot afford this luxury for contingent facts, many of which are obscure, because I challenge anyone to tell me what contains the so-called Nazarene covenant. One day someone told us: there are men in politics who often change parties to keep up their ideas and there are men who often change ideas to stay in their own party. Well, I think we have to join the first category. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u172	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against my group. I would like to make a few comments quickly, given that the question of electivity is raised as the central issue. What is most striking in the ongoing debate on reform is the nostalgia of the past: the aversion and intolerance for every innovation, for every foreign influence. The result is an uncritical vagueness of what has been: the myth of the past as a happy era, the contempt of the present. In other words, democracy is either the consensual and consociative type, which has been in post-war Italy, or it is not. In this way, a second Chamber elected by regional councils and not by citizens would be a basically non-democratic institution. Yet, in Europe, the direct electivity of the second chamber is not a rule; indeed, the whole opposite. This is not the case in Germany, it is not the case in Austria; it is not the case in France; not to mention the United Kingdom. Only 13 of the 28 countries of the European Union have a second Chamber and, among them, only five of its members are directly elected. Only in three of these five countries the second Chamber has significant legislative powers and only in Italy the Senate has the same powers as the Chamber; a wreck when each of the sides feared on April 18 of the opponent. Then, the combination of the majority prize and the non-elective Senate would be an attack on democracy. Of course the electoral law must be done well and the opening of the President of the Council lays down for a season of change. If so, would not the United Kingdom and France be democratic systems? The House of Lords is certainly not an institution elected by the people and even the French Senate is not elected by the citizens. Yet, in 2005 the Labour Party won 35 percent of the votes and obtained 55 percent of the seats and, with 29 percent of the votes obtained in the first round, Hollande won 53 percent of the seats in the National Assembly. It is also said that, who knows why, raising the regions and local governments to the level of parliamentary institutions would be inconsistent and inappropriate, forgetting that, for example, the mayors and presidents of the Region are directly elected democratic authorities, forgetting that regional councillors are elected with preferences and that both have nothing to envy in terms of democratic pedigree to the senators and MPs, also because the scenes seen not many years ago - I remember the mortadella in this House - do not lay down for a particular primacy of parliamentarians. It is also forgotten that the action of the Regions and the municipalities depends largely on the provision of social services, the implementation of laws, state policies, public expenditure; it is forgotten that to place within the constitutional institutions the place of coordination between the legislation of the State and its implementation in the territories is an indispensable necessity for the proper functioning of the constitutional system, since our Republic is no longer that of before, has already changed and is now unfinished, in half. In fact, however, it is considered, the reform of Title V, wanted by the center-left and confirmed by the popular vote in the referendum of September 2001 made to Part II of the Constitution (which regulates the relations between State, Regions and local authorities) very profound changes. The lack of a parliamentary place of mediation is perhaps the main critical point of the reform and this is what recommends building a Chamber of self-government and not choosing the simplest, apparently, path of monocameralism. Despite this, there are those who continue to argue that a reform copied from models born in other cultures and in different historical circumstances does not fit our situation because, as always, Italy is different and in Italy you can not do it. All countries - and not only European countries - have had to adapt to the great changes that took place in the post-war period in the organization, function and philosophy of the modern state. Wherever the stresses were more or less the same and the problems that the systems of relation between center and periphery had to face were more or less the same, as more or less the same were the answers that they elaborated. Everyone has tried to treasure the experience of others. The German-speaking federal or regional systems have evolved by copying each other in turn; regional experiences in Italy have been studied for the Spanish Constitution. Spain is now discussing the introduction of the mayor's direct election and, of course, the Spanish constitutional experiences, such as the German federal ones, are one of the indispensable points of reference in our debate. Our decline has many reasons, but one of them is the culture of constitutional conservatism that exchanges the limits of the constituent process of 1947 due to the Cold War (which the Constituents themselves had very clear and felt as limits, just think that Constantine Dead called the Senate a useless duplication of the House). [[Senator Council's comments.]] There is no democracy on the one hand and an authoritarian or parafascist attempt on the other as some jokers think. There are two concepts of democracy in comparison. One is assembly and is based on the so-called centrality of Parliament; the other is based on the responsibility of the Executives. The first was the peculiarity of Italy, that of the post-war period, part of the anomaly of a political system characterized by the lack of alternation. The second is the most advanced parliamentary systems. With the two referendums in 1991 and 1993, the people expressed their views and questioned the proportionality and the forms of assembly of our Parliament. Since then, we have passed the partnership democracy to establish a model of governing democracy. We, colleagues, have not changed our minds. Mr President, with regard to the amendment, I note that the first part has already been rejected by amendment 1.88. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u175	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak because I believe it is necessary to make the Democratic Party's voice heard for one more reason. As a leader in the PD Commission, I have followed this whole affair and I would not like to repeat a mistake that may have been made here too: to give voice, democratically, to all possible disagreements and to all possible opinions, keeping the opinions of the majority of us in silence and in trace form. It is a mistake that we cannot make. Then, to Mr Minzolini, who took part in the work of the Commission, I say that Amendment 1.1556 is welcome if it has been the occasion for a fairly peaceful debate. However, it is not acceptable for any of us to accept debates, even in this House, in which everything is possible: it is possible to vote for the elimination of the Senate, it is possible to vote for the electivity of the Senate, it is possible to vote for anything in order not to go into the substance of the problems and not to accept a serious debate on them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The truth is that, since the beginning of this debate, attention has shifted to the electoral system, while the real problem facing us is the diversification of the functions of the House and the Senate. Mr Minzolini resumed the debate in the Commission, but in order to bring the situation back to what it was, there was no need at all to write down all these paragraphs, dear colleague, but simply to delete the paragraphs in Rule 55 which added the Government, the rapporteurs and which the Commission voted on. My colleague understands and understands all of us that there has been a valuable speech, that the diversification of functions is a serious thing, that the link with the territory is a serious thing, that the control of public policies and the link with Europe are serious things. So, in some way, it is his amendment of all the debate that has taken place in the Commission. However, this debate is aimed at something else; it is aimed at establishing a differentiation between the two functions and at establishing that a House, the Chamber of Deputies, is the Political Chamber and that the other House is full of meaning for the content and functions assigned to it by the Commission and that, probably, this House too will be able to make more important and more valuable if any further amendment passes. I would therefore like to explain the reasons for my speech. I asked to speak not only in order to vote against amendment 1.1556 and in favour of maintaining the text that came out of the Commission, but also because it is not conceivable that we continue to hear and invoke democracy as logic on the part of those who disagree, while those who have the patience to listen do not sufficiently hear their voices. [[Senator Nugnes' protests.]] Then I want to say one more thing. I believe that the Renzi Government and the impetus given by Renzi and Minister Boschi play an important role in this whole affair, but I do not have them stealing this reform either. See that this reform - as Renzi also said in the assembly - is in full continuity with the history of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have had an election campaign on this reform. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Read the story! LO MORO (PD). We have taken sides for the non-electivity of the Senate! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator De Petris]] AIROLA (M5S). This is outrageous! (Senator Santangelo shows the Constitution.) LO MORO (PD). We are moving forward on the path that belongs to us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We don't need anyone to make us believe we have masters. We don't have, and we prove it every day, no master. [[Protests of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]] [[Applause from the PD Group]] Renzi represents us in this story, but the Senate is able to self-form itself, to decide what its functions are and what the electoral system of the future is and does so in full continuity with a political line that belongs to the Democratic Party of Renzi and before Renzi. AIROLA (M5S). You said otherwise! LO MORO (PD). I have always been a dialogue with all forms. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] They are against any form of demonization of dissent within PD and outside PD. But be careful not to demonize those who think - and we are a large part - in a different way. We believe that the system of indirect election is an application of Article 1 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). But which one? But where? LO MORO (PD). You don't read the Constitution to bits and bites. The forms in which the people exercise their sovereignty are established by the Constitution, and we are intervening on the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then you also have respect for those who agree with this reform. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u177	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u178	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Senator Minzolini, who is opposed by my Group, because it lays down the principle of direct universal suffrage for electing Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to say very clearly, since we are finally debating, that we can well derogate from the rule of direct universal suffrage, but the context must be clear: because it derogates and what the counterweights are. I read in the press that Italicum will be modified in the Senate: well. Preferences will be inserted: well. Will those barrier thresholds be changed which reduce the political dialectic to three political forces, and the third with less weight? I don't know about that. And above all, will that majority prize be reduced, which I consider unreasonable? Mr President, with a Senate deprived of its powers and transformed into a Senate of regional councillors, if the House continues to have that unreasonable majority prize, a democratic question arises for the election of the President of the Republic and of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] I would like to say with affection - and I am beginning to conclude - to my colleague Lo Moro that it is true that the Senate of Councillors is in the history of the Democratic Party and in the previous ones. However, it is not in the history of the Democratic Party, of the Italian Communist Party and of Christian Democracy that the idea is to proceed to a reform of the Constitution that is not coherent. Mr President, one branch of Parliament does not know what the other does and both branches of Parliament do not know what is being discussed in private meetings. That is the problem we have to face. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups and Senator D'Anna]] I make a final appeal to the rapporteurs, who are good and wise people. You have the opportunity to control the whole process better than a single senator, among other things in dissension from his group. Then I tell you to watch that this House does not vote for an incoherent reform project that perhaps, by giving all of us a final slap, will have to be changed, after other agreements and after other pacts of the Nazarene, to the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u181	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, for the courtesy of my group, I feel the need to make a personal explanation of vote, since it was not possible to do so first, because of a technical problem, on the amendment tabled and then withdrawn by Mr Azzollini. I take advantage of the opportunity of the amendment signed by my colleague, Mr Minzolini, which, to some extent, incorporates the paradoxical effect that, in the cultural provocation of Senator Azzollini, was contained in his amendment, giving us the opportunity to reflect on some dangerous traps contained in the reform under consideration. These are traps in which the country will inevitably fall, as has already happened. It has already happened - I remind all of us and myself first - on important constitutional changes, especially from 2001 onwards; I am referring to the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which in 2001 caused, by virtue of the heavy traps contained within it, disputes, disguides and crowding of regulatory acts that have gradually created more problems for the country than it has solved. All this has been happening regularly for a few years now, even on ordinary laws that (to a careful reader of our legislative acts does not escape) have an average life of a few months, or sometimes a few weeks. It has happened recently, but it has happened for some time now that we have had to amend or that we feel the need to amend legislative acts, often contained in large containers, not even 15 days after their approval. Well, this is the alarm bell of one of the traps that we risk living also in this constitutional change and, that is, that of non-organic, non-harmonized interventions that, mixing arguments and issues, produce such a mess that, in the end, we lose the beneficial effects of a potential reform along the way (a reform is always inspired, in fact, by the result and the beneficial effects that it tries to achieve) and what remains for sure is the exponential increase not only in the number of laws and regulatory acts, but also of their non-quality. In other words, it reduces the legislative quality and, inversely proportional, increases the quantity or perhaps - as the Roman leader yesterday in a nice synthesis tried to scheme - we no longer understand whether the egg or the hen was born first and that is, if, referring to this case, we are here to produce important changes because we have so far wrong or if, instead, we are wrong because we first started with the wrong foot. And God knows how wrong that Title V reform approved by only four votes in 2001. Even at the time, a force of the majority, besides being mistaken on the formal level, soon showed all its serious error on the substantive plane. Here then the stratifications of constitutional and non-constitutional organs - like those that we face in this reform and that before Senator Azzollini has only remembered - in a contradiction between powers, roles and functions on the same levels (the State-Regions Conference, the State-City Conference, the unified Conference, the Senate of the territories, so let's call it if we do not want to call it otherwise) will be a whole, a tangle of competences and functions, which will generate a hundred times that litigation that has already generated the reform of Title V and all that it has dragged behind. Just think of the appeals, the administrative litigation that has been produced. Against all this, in the following years, we tried, Senator Maran, to find a balanced formula that would allow to modify the powers and functions of the Government. Senator Maran is right, in fact, when he invokes, in modern time, the need to slowly get out of the trial and the assembler's scaffolding in order to move on to that of the Government, as mature democracies do. But in order to do this everything needs to be balanced, Senator Maran, and here instead we have played that balance. In the reform of the Berlusconi Government and its majority, however, all this was contextualized in a precise and respectful architecture of the political history of this country, of its tradition, but also of its great need to give more power to the Government and to give more efficiency to our institutions. In order not to give that efficiency, today we find those institutions in a comatose state and we are obliged to intervene, in this context, even with legislative forces, which perhaps - perhaps! - they will have some effects, but they will certainly leave on the ground that stratification I mentioned earlier. This has generated that monster, which has taken over our country, tangled it between legislative acts, administrative acts of second and third degree, administrative acts of judicial type and financial regulatory acts, such as those of the Authorities, which have now enveloped the country in a mortal embrace, until turning it into a petrified forest. That's how we came to the collapse of institutions. In other words, we have done everything to ensure that citizens, businesses and anyone who has a right of citizenship guaranteed by the Constitution no longer feel represented, either by this form of government or by this form of Parliament. Personally, like so many of us and my group as a whole, I am convinced that there is a need for important reform, but we cannot fail not only to certain principles, such as universal suffrage and the centrality of the citizen in this process, but also to an honest analysis of what we have done in the past, where we have done wrong and how we can remedy it today. There is a willingness on the part of all the Groups to consider the merits of some important issues. If, however, this is denied by a majority that tries to advance its idea of reform, but that cannot find the balance with those who, perhaps in the minority, think of a different idea of reform, we would have done one of the last acts of a policy - and of all the institutions - really collapsed. Because if we really allow ourselves the right to remove citizens, even in a revision that leads from the assembly model to a more modern and effective one, that participation through their vote, which means... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u182	Please conclude, Senator Bonfrisco. His time isn't over, but he still has ten seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u183	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am going to conclude by asking this House to give further thought to the opportunity which, for example, the amendment tabled by Senator Azzollini, for example, offered us, but which now also gives us the amendment tabled by Senator Minzolini. Are we sure we want to produce an additional tangle, which will cost the country a lot, between direct and indirect costs? All the litigation I tried to explain before is in fact a very heavy economic burden for the country, which pays citizens and businesses. I wonder if it is not better, at this point, really, in an attempt to do something that is not harmful, but useful to the country, to abolish this branch of Parliament, in this reform. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u185	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u186	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, what is taking place is a good debate: let us finally get to the bottom of it. This morning I was concerned that perhaps historians, when they read the reports of this sitting, will see only a clash on the Regulations. For three days, in fact, we have been talking about Regulations. Now we have finally come to the point. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues Maran and Lo Moro who have entered the debate. I would ask Mr Maran, in particular, not to create adversaries of convenience. There is no discussion here between those who want to preserve and those who want to innovate. We are all to rethink - where necessary - the Constitution. The objection that we have made to criticism concerns the systematic relationship between this act (the constitutional revision) and the other act, that is, the electoral law. By putting together these two legislative proposals we obtain a negative result that is in the eyes of all and that cannot be denied, that is that the Italians cannot choose parliamentarians because the Italicum prevents the choice of Members and this measure, as it is, prevents the election of senators. We have already made a choice that goes in the same negative direction by preventing citizens from choosing the President of the Metropolitan City. Is this road right? Does it correspond to the problems of Italy today? We are experiencing a very profound democratic crisis, a crisis of legitimacy for parties and institutions. The electorate has expressed in every way in recent years a malaise, a protest, towards the political class as a whole. Are we adopting a solution that responds to this crisis? What makes it possible to overcome this crisis? Or does it tend to aggravate it? That is the question, Mr Maran, which we must ask ourselves. With these measures it will be the secretariats of the parties that will make up Parliament's lists. Italicum is not very different from Porcellum because the election to the Regional Council of Senators will respond to a logic of currents and parties at local level. But in today's Italy, in the face of this crisis of legitimacy of the parties, can we make the decision to assign to the secretariats of the parties the composition of the future Parliament? Is this an innovation? Or is it not, instead, a step backwards, indeed a putting gasoline on the fire in this crisis of democratic legitimacy that exists in our country? That's the point. Mrs Lo Moro sought continuity with the positions of the Democratic Party, of my party. I participated in all the congresses, in all the changes of name, in all the changes of leader, but for ten years in my political part (I believe not only in my political part, but a little 'in all the parties) I felt a very strong conviction, that it was necessary to overcome the Porcellum, it was necessary to give the citizens the opportunity to choose the parliamentarians. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]] That is the truth of the Democratic Party for ten years now, but it seems to me that we are taking a completely different path. I said before that this is a good debate, but it is also a debate in half, because, while we are here discussing the election of the Senate, the other issue, that of electoral law, is precluded from confronting us. I am very convinced of the senate's electivity, however, if I could see that in the other measure, in Italicum, there could be a serious change, a single college, that is, a solution that is in line with the criterion that the Constitutional Court put in its judgment, namely the possibility of the elector to recognize the elected one, if I were reassured that with Italicum, at least on the electoral law, he would give the citizens the possibility of looking at the elected one in the face, of choosing him, well my objection to the provision relating to the Senate would remain, but it would be much less severe. My dissent would remain, but it would be much less intense. Mr President, allow me to make a comment. I said before that what we are doing is a good debate, so we should go ahead and enrich it; however, the other element, namely Italicum, is out of our possibility of confrontation. That's the vulnus, that's the flaw. This House, however, will probably be called upon to discuss this point of Italicum in September, so why should we separate these two elements that are so deeply connected in this way? I think it would be very useful for our debate to have a discussion on the solution to be given in the electoral law to the choice of the elector. This issue is under discussion, it is in all the newspapers, our political leaders meet and discuss this. Why is this debate not brought here to the Senate Chamber, it is not addressed here in its own seat, and why is it that only more or less secret meetings are held by our political leaders? We could also organise our work in such a way that, while the debate on the constitutional revision is going on here, on the other hand, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we are examining the question of the choice of the elector for the election of the Chamber of Deputies. If there were a common conviction on this among the parties, then it would also be possible to arrive at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to establish together the principle of the uninomial college or of preferences or, in any case, mechanisms that guarantee in some way the electivity, the possibility of choice in the election of the Chamber of Deputies. Then we would come back here to discuss our subject having each of us a more secure and secure picture and - I repeat - also objections to the elective Senate, maybe they would remain, but they would be less intense than before. I would like to say that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we could move on to the next article, put aside for a moment the subject of the electivity of the Senate, have a political seat in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (and not in the Nazarene, or in another forum or in the newspapers, but in the parliamentary seat) where we have a close discussion on the mechanism of Italicum, on the modification to be made to it and carry out these discussions in parallel. Then, before we reach the final vote on the measure, we could resume the amendments on the electivity of the Senate in such a way that each of us can systematically assess whether we are giving the voters back the possibility of choosing parliamentarians or whether, in Italy of 2014, in this crisis of legitimization of such a strong policy, we are going to take a path of worsening of the crisis, entrusting only the secretariats of the parties the composition of Parliament. In my view, this is an unwise decision and it risks accentuating this crisis; so, before we take this path, let us look for a further moment of reflection. Let us not just leave this reflection at summit meetings, but let us take it to the parliamentary seat. I therefore propose that we put aside the amendments on electivity, that we hold a debate - in the depths of our calendar - in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the solution to be given in Italicum on the choice of voters and then resume this subject after clarifying the amendment on Italicum. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-MovX groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u189	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is true that what we are doing is a good debate, it is appropriate and important to do so and we are certainly on a crucial point. It is a pity that the whole debate on the issue of electivity has rolled around a misunderstanding: that is the problem. As we have heard in the debate that has emerged, there are two visions, both absolutely legitimate, of democracy and parliamentary representation. One is the one who believes that the only source of legitimacy is election and it is an idea that has its own history, its own nobility, its own constitutional tradition and must not be demonized at all. It is an idea and is perhaps characteristic of an epoch, of a constitutionalism that is no longer there. The other is the one who really wants to distinguish the functions and make the Senate a Territorial Chamber, with functions of representation of the territories rather than political functions. The misunderstanding that has remained is around this aspect: do we want a Political Chamber or a Territorial Chamber? The more politics is made, the more it must be elected; the more territorial it is made, the less the election is justified. The problem with this reform is that we are still halfway there. It is a somewhat political Chamber, a bit territorial and this generates the misunderstanding, precisely, according to which many people think that there is a problem not to elect it. I think that perhaps it would be appropriate to focus more on the functions of the Senate and refine its nature as a Territorial Chamber, which then also disassembles the need to make it elective. In short, that is not the point of the reform that presents the greatest problems. You could definitely choose the other model, the elective one, and therefore a House of a purely political nature. You can choose a different model and you are going in this direction. For us it is absolutely fine, as long as we can concentrate a little more on the overall coherence of a House that must be territorial. That is why I am voting against our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u192	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, all the speeches before me have touched on the real issues of the matter, because very often, even for what has been reported in the press, the issue of the electivity or not of the Senate is seen as a dogma, as the object of an arm-arm. I come back to what I have often said in the Commission: the problem is much simpler, namely that the principle of the electivity of the Senate corresponds to the functions of the Senate. But at the moment when we recognized the Senate simply as the Senate of the self-governments and it was really just a sort of House of Regions and Municipalities, it would not make sense to insist only on the electivity. But at the moment when we associate with the theme of the Senate and its electiveity issues such as constitutional revision, ordinary laws and however we remain in any case - as Senator Palermo pointed out - in the middle of the ford, I believe that universal suffrage - the fact that on certain issues and issues the Senate not only responds for Molise, Liguria or Lombardy but for the whole nation and therefore must be covered by universal suffrage - is indispensable and inescapable. It is precisely for this reason that when we asked - and I am going back to urging Mr Tocci to do so - that there should be a deepening of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is also linked to the analysis of Italicum, it did not seem to us that we wanted to subvert the principle of reformist action, but rather that we wanted to make that reformative action consistent with unsound constitutional principles and, above all, capable of getting us out of the ford.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u195	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, with regard to Senator Mario Mauro's speech, in the full freedom of his expression, his time must be counted in the context of dissent, because it does not correspond to the Group's line. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u197	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u198	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this amendment, because I believe that is the basic point on which we are debating. We are faced with the question of the direct electivity of the two rooms. It is true that there will also be other amendments on the same subject, but perhaps it is useful to make some slight reflection on this point, whose distinctive character is the planned election of the Senate. For the time being, I want to make a fundamental reflection which seems decisive to me. I do not know, Mr President, whether this Parliamentary Assembly - with this composition, which is voted on by the electoral law you know and which has had very serious constitutional problems - has the opportunity in this Chamber to address today an issue, which is part of the nature of the Italian Republic, such as the direct electivity of one of the two chambers. This is a Parliament which, as is well known, has full effect, is carrying out legitimate and valid acts, but it has an electoral law problem that we all know of and which, not by chance, is echoed here. I do not know whether, not the second part of the Constitution, but the founding features of the Italian Constitution can be dealt with here. I have some doubts in this regard and, since in Italy the union of constitutional legitimacy is quite recurrent, I would not like us to stumble into one of these situations. Here we pass from a Chamber elected by universal suffrage to a Chamber no longer elected by universal suffrage. These amendments want to bring the election of both Chambers, in the case of the Senate, back to direct election. Can this Parliament, in this composition, after the decision of the Constitutional Court on the legitimacy of the law that elected it to address this problem? I don't think so. Before I close a debate on direct electiveity, I would think about it for a long time. Senator Tocci even suggested a procedure to remedy these problems. My position is always intended to remedy the inconveniences because, unfortunately, in my parliamentary experience many times I have struggled for something that, later on, has been made quite quickly. Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this amendment by submitting this point to you and to the House for the time being. I am not a scholar of constitutional law, but it seems to me that constitutionalists have dealt with the issue of the election of this House with the Court's ruling. On a founding problem of the Republic, I would therefore be careful to violate the principle of direct election of this House. On the other hand - and we will discuss later on about trust and other economic issues - I do not understand what you are in favour of having a Senate for which, given the functions that you want to give it, direct election is planned. I don't know what you're up to. It certainly bothers me a bit and it is rather irritating to discuss costs when we talk about the founding nature of a Republic and a democracy. But in this climate I even tend to overcome the irritation and say that both elections are held together and have more or less the same cost (we are really at differences less than decimals). Why, then, in a Parliament that has different functions, that has to perform different tasks, that has a different nature to make even the distinctive constitutional feature of electiveity disappear? To date I have not found an answer, from the government or from others. If, in the course of the discussion, I find a convincing answer, I am ready to change my mind, but until there is a convincing answer, I have to make a strong decision about the direct election of the Senate of the Republic. There is no obstacle to the requirements imposed not by me, but by the Government; it does not seem to me that, for the functions that are given, it is an obstacle. Here too there are fine Parliaments with two rooms with different functions, both directly elected. I don't understand why Italy doesn't want to do this. I would remind everyone - we could discuss for a long time - that instead for the Bundesrat, which is remotely the inspirational model, there are other systems, through which the secondary election compares with the direct election of the Bundestag. We'll discuss this in due course. Here we make a clear choice, which in my opinion is difficult to share. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u201	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, we will vote against this amendment because we believe that this is absolutely in line with the reform that we are approving. Among other things, we claim our substantial, active and decisive contribution to bringing this reform home. There's no one here to name the reform. We have worked together with the Government in the Commission; Parliament has done its part and NCD has promoted a sensitive and serious battle on the reform of our Senate. Finally, Mr President, since we are voting on this particular, extremely sensitive issue and there are many amendments that refer to this particular and delicate situation, I would like to know how many more votes we will have to take on the same amendment. [[Applause from Senators Sacconi and Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u202	On the same amendment only one.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u205	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I note that we have reached one of the key points of this reform. There have been others and there will be others, but this is certainly an important point and the debate we have witnessed shows it. We're in front of a crossroads. We could close this debate by putting this amendment to the vote and, probably, there will be a majority that will decide in one direction or another. However, Mr President, there is something new. Hearing the speeches that preceded me, especially that of Senator Tocci, I believe that there is a very important novelty. There is probably a possibility of deciding on this amendment, not by a majority such as the one that will be at the next vote, but by a larger majority. Senator Tocci was very clear: he opened up the possibility that some senators in this House could accept a non-elective Senate, while voting against this amendment and therefore being in favour of an elective Senate, provided that a parallel discussion on the electoral law opens, which could provide those weights and counterweights that could make a non-elective Senate tolerable. So, Mr President, precisely because this is a constitutional reform that should be done with the widest possible majority, since we have the opportunity to enlarge the majority on this amendment by opening this parallel debate, as indicated by Senator Tocci; please do not close the debate here and set aside this amendment, accepting the proposal made not only by Senator Tocci, but also by many other senators. Let us reflect on this point. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u206	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this request for provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u207	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u208	I am against it. [[Laughter from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u209	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1556, tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1557, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u210	Mr President, I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u211	We shall cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u212	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let me cancel it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u213	Senator Nugnes, you're one of the few who hasn't spoken. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u214	NUGNES (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I support this amendment, as I supported the previous ones. These amendments bear witness to the fact that these oppositions are making proposals. Here there is much demagogy and mystification. I have heard Mr Lo Moro say that perhaps a mistake has been made in the Commission to listen so much to minorities and not to give a voice to the majority. However, a serious error is made here because listening is confused with the mere function of the auditory apparatus, which is to hear without listening. There is one thing Mr Morra said: we have come to this House with the unresolved problems of the Commission and we are all seeing them. Mr President, I would also like to address you. When so many amendments are tabled and it is believed that this is a mere work of obstruction, we should stop to reason that the oppositions are seeking dialogue and to bring about a differentiation which, on the other hand, the government's arm of arms does not want to listen at all. This is very clearly derived from the words of the Minister. We are seeing that the main issue, at least in these first articles, lies in the matter of the Senate, which no one here insists on wanting to see in a non-reformable way. In fact, although many have started, as I have already said, from a somewhat romantic view of perfect bicameralism, these hand-held amendments are clearly questioning the fundamental points. In fact, it is true that the Senate is either absolutely elective, however differentiated in its functions, or it is a Senate of territoriality and deals only with territoriality, or it is not the Senate, because if one thing has to be wrong it is better that it is not there. So I don't think these oppositions are obstructing, but they're looking for a point of comparison with a rubber wall, an hostility and an iron fist that comes on the other side. The very fact that we are here, in this House and in the Commission, discussing the measure that has arrived at us and on which we are making changes means that we are all open to dialogue and this bat is just a scream: a scream that comes to make us listen and stop this machine which, however, must go on, at any cost, to bring home, as has been said, a reform as if it were a point. But others, far more illustrious than me (whose name I do not mean not to take them to my side without their consent), have said that when constitutional reforms are being made, we do not have to think about the contingent, but we have to look to the future, because these reforms will have to be done for our children and not for our benefit. So, in order to make a constitutional reform, we need consensus, but in this House we lack the culture of consensus, governance and balance of the parties. Listening is not merely hearing; it is not giving contingency times or minutes to let out an opposition and to say that you have granted her the word and listened to her. That's not listening. Listening means finding points of contact and dialogue, and we have given them to you with these amendments! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You've never listened to us on anything! This is the only truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u217	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many times in this House during this important debate about the structure of law and the functions of law. The structure and function of Roman law was schematic, in absolutely linear terms, in crimes and contracts. It is at Byzantium that that linearity breaks and appears hybrid figures, contaminations, almost delicts and almost contracts. We have started, even in the history of this Republic, from the linear structure of the Senate. What we are now proposing is a Byzantine variant: it is not the Senate, but the almost Senate. That is why I am voting in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Tocci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u218	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1557, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1558, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1559, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, until the words are deleted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1559 and amendment 1.1560 are therefore excluded. I note that amendments 1,1561, 1,1563, 1,1566, 1,1568, 1,1571, 1,1572, 1.1576 and 1.1582 will be voted on later. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1562, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). (Senator Dirindin is about to reach her position to vote.) Please, Senator Dirindin. I'm waiting, but I want you to vote on the person. The vote by proxy does not exist. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes amendments 1,1565, 1,1569, 1,1578, 1,1579, 1.1580, 1,1581, 1,1586, 1.1587 and 1.1588. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1564, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, until the words "Room of Deputies and of the Senate." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1564 and amendment 1.1567 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1570, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u221	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I have to say that I am speaking in a very cooperative spirit. From what I understand, after voting on amendment 1,1564, you considered that the amendments 1.1565 and 1.1567, which, however, differed... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] He answers me! There's no need for the secretary! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, amendment 1.1565 is precluded from rejecting amendment 1.1562. Amendment 1.1567 is precluded by the rejection of the first part of amendment 1.1564. Montevecchi (M5S). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u222	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1573, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1574, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1575, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, identical to amendment 1.1577, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1583, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1584, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1585, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1561.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u223	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u225	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my explanation of vote on this amendment, which I have signed, goes back to one of the key points of the reform that we are considering. Let us once again say how important any function or role is to be given to this branch of Parliament. What is important, however, is that this branch of Parliament remains in the power of decision of the citizens, in order to be able to find that balance between the institutions and the citizens themselves that, in recent times, seems to have been lost in the procedures and also in the habits of a policy that, in Parliament, or even in its role as government, increasingly finds obstacles in dialogue and communication with the citizens. That is why I believe, of course on a personal basis, that such an opportunity should not be missed in this important reform which has a spirit and a breath in the Government's proposal. We cannot fail to recall the valuable work carried out by the 1st Commission, which has dealt with many issues but, in a statement by the rapporteurs themselves, it has not been able to resolve all the issues and has thus led to the House and its sovereignty one, that of direct election, as one of the issues to be addressed in the sharing of the spirit of reform where political majorities are different and can change the structure of Parliament. What cannot be lost, however, is the relationship of trust and the tight bond of mandate between those who represent the citizens and intend to represent them in a close bond, the result of the vote, the choice and the decision of the citizens themselves, and who instead think can be more functional and linear than a project a so-called second-degree election, as has already happened for the Provinces. By entering into the merit of a political evaluation - for example - on the reform on the ground of the Provinces, much supported mainly by some media, we are already touching with hand its failure. We have not abolished any Province, President; we have only abolished the only possibility for citizens to elect with their participation in the vote representatives in the provincial council. So I wouldn't want this mistake to come down on the Senate, too. If in fact it is right to reform it by giving it different functions and binding it more and more to the territories, I think it is profoundly wrong to subtract it from the popular will. My explanation of vote in favour of this amendment is to remind us that we are dealing with one of the key elements of the reform, which would be very poor if we continued to amputate those quotas of democracy with so much effort that they are on a plate of the balance that is not in balance. It is not in fact by removing democracy that we give greater efficiency and functionality to this branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u226	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1561, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the words "universal and direct suffrage." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1561 and amendments 1.1563 and 1.1566 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1568, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1571, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the words "it consists of two elected rooms." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.1571 and amendments 1.1572 and 1.1576 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1582, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1589, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1590, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1591, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1592, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1593, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1594, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1595, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1596, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1597, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1598, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1599, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1600, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1601, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, and amendment 1. 1602, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1603, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1604, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, and amendment 1,1605, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1606, identical to Amendments Nos 1,1607, 1,1608, 1,1609 and 1,1610.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u229	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, let us return to an issue which has already been discussed a great deal, but I think that in this case it is worth repeating: I say this in Italian, because otherwise a dear colleague reproaches me and I do not want to lose her friendship if I say it in Latin. So, what are the reasons that I believe are in favour of the new Senate being elected? First of all, the following argument, which has already been used: in the context of a functional differentiation, which absolutely convinces me, I find contradictory the fact that in view of a Senate of the Autonomies - it is a topic that has been discussed for years in the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and has been the subject of in-depth study - are attributed to the Senate that is here hypothesized of functions that go far beyond this representation: I quote, for example, the possibility of voting on constitutional laws, electoral laws and international treaties. As my fellow Senator Mario Mauro said before, there is a contradiction that does not allow it. I would like to make a second assessment: of course I know the objections that are being opposed to the arguments that I am about to bring and therefore I will try to deny these objections as well. It is said that if the Senate to which we think were subjected to electiveism, it would no longer be a Senate representing the territories, but would be a Senate to which the designation of parties would assume a fundamental role. Now, if it is true - as I believe it is true - that we all hope that the parties will return to their constitutional function, that is why I believe that a second or third nomination Senate would, in fact, exorbitant and intrusive role on the part of the parties. In fact, what does it mean to speak of second or third appointments? For those who know the life of the parties, this means that it would be the regional secretaries and group leaders of the parties who would carry out the designation, and I do not believe that this would favour a return of the parties to a strictly constitutional function. There is a third consideration that I intend to make and which concerns comparative modeling. If we look at countries of extraordinary importance in the Western world, we can see, for example, that the United States has chosen an elective Senate since the second decade of the twentieth century, that France provides for an electoral mechanism with a very broad base and that even, in its most recent legislation, there is the incompatibility between the role of senator, mayor and regional councillor and that Spain elects the second Chamber for four fifths. There is also the political issue, which in my view is absolutely fundamental. As my colleague Mr Tocci said earlier, today we have, at first, an ultra-major electoral law, which to some extent calls into question the desirable functions of guarantee of the Senate, to which I and some of us think, but above all this electoral mechanism expropates the citizen of a possibility of direct choice, which certainly could not take place through the blocked list, but only in the case of an option for preference or a single-member college. I found it extraordinarily interesting, from a political point of view, Mr Tocci's speech, because he showed that there is no ideological prejudice on our part, there is no a prioriism for a sort of party taken. It was said that, since the examination of Italicum will be of relevance to this House, and in the meantime the process provided for in the Constitution to modify our bicameralism system will not be completed, we will have further elements of evaluation. And of course, in relation to these additional elements of assessment, we reserve the right to make a judgment. Finally, the counter-objection that I have heard most often and that I have been opposed to: if we proceed through a mechanism of electiveity, the elected senators may require to perform functions that, in essence, would deny the model of Senate to which the majority points. I do not believe that this objection is valid because a function is valid because of the engagement to which it has been assumed. And if much of the law were passed (as I hope, because my reasons for opposition are well-defined and delimited reasons), I believe that this objection would not stand. Finally, I have a question that I do not know how to answer. I remember, not for an autocitation, that when I first spoke in general discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I had valued assessments and judgments that before me had exposed Senator Quagliariello, to whom I undoubtedly recognize a well-known competence in these matters (he had also played the role of Minister for Reforms), he had used arguments quite similar to my own. I note that today Senator Quagliariello changes his positions, but it seems to me that he does so more for reasons of a general political nature than for considerations of merit. It is a completely legitimate choice that I allow myself not to share, because in relation to these matters I believe that the criterion of truth, the truths in which we believe, is more valid than the criterion of political opportunity. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u232	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I believe that no one escapes the fact that the 1948 constitution faced a state to be built and an organisational dimension of the state to be created. In that situation he hypothesized the Regions that were not in the Italian administrative order and thought, even with the doubts of many constituents, of a bicameral system that significantly characterized with that phrase that so many problems created, saying that the Senate had to be elected on a regional basis. It was clear the assessment that the situation of 1948 was the constituent, it was clear that it was a construction measured on that reality. Today we are in a constituent phase and, if we want to deal with it in a debt way, we cannot fail to note the evolution that the organization of the system of government has had in our State. We cannot fail to note the role played by the regions and municipalities. In this dimension it is more than legitimate to think of a new parliamentary system, different from the previous one, that is characterized by the presence of a Chamber that guarantees the representation of territorial institutions and that creates a link, also at legislative level, between the territorial institutions and Parliament. This is the qualifying feature of this system change, and this is the point on which an objective evaluation must first be set. Is this a model that responds, from the point of view of decision-making and functional needs, to the needs of the country at this moment? If that is the case, it is clear - comparatively so too, with all due respect for the objections that have been made - that direct and indirect election are two options, they are two choices, but there is no possibility at the level of intellectual honesty to say that the choice of indirect election denies democracy and characterizes the system for a dictatorial or authoritarian involution. On this level one may also have doubt; in the intervention in general discussion I claimed the right-duty to doubt. I do not claim to have the evangelical truth in my hands and I am far from characterizing my position in Parliament in terms of ideological opposition or criminalisation of the opinions of others. I respect the opinions of others, but I believe that it would really take an exercise of intellectual honesty not to deny that this hypothesis that does not like has full democratic and constitutional dignity. So, if the discussion really took place where it should be taken, we would not have witnessed today the incredible spectacle of someone who wanted to support the cancellation of the Senate not taking responsibility as a constituent to make an organic proposal, waiting that, if the Senate is suppressed, there are 60 articles to change in this Constitution. So, if we want to get out of propaganda and go back to the responsibility of the constituent, it is on this level that we must have a confrontation and, if we make a comparison of merit and not instrumental, the plan of the discussion is also that of a merit that moves in a framework that, as shared, must be perfectly identified. I didn't hear in any of the dissidents' speeches clarify... AIROLA (M5S). Because you were asleep! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u233	Senator Airola, you can't stop talking to these inhumane cries. Please, it scares us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u234	Senator Pagliari, finish, please. Mr Pagliari (PD). I have not heard in any of the speeches by the dissidents and, for my own sake, I have not been able to grasp from the summary of their speeches what the draft constitutional reform they have in mind. It didn't come up with a precise picture, but only the feeling that what you want to do is exactly to keep this picture. This is also legitimate, but it must be said clearly; we must not go after thousands of amendments built on the difference of 500, 501 or 400 Members of Parliament, or in which we are talking about the Chamber or the Duma. Let's get back to the point and make a comparison on this. Do we agree on the overall installation of this differentiated and specialized bicameral system? Do we agree with the new functions that Article 117 assigns? Are we in agreement with the overall system or are there differences in which a different electoral system engages? In fact, I think it is very clear from the point of view of analysis and from the technical point of view: the question of the election system is not a decisive factor in the model that comes out of the proposal drawn up by the rapporteurs, Mr Calderoli and Mr Finocchiaro. In that model there is, from the technical point of view and constitutional technicality, its consistency, its design and a balance between weights and counterweights. There is a design that has a full constitutional dignity. You may like it or you may not like it, but no one is allowed to criminalize it in terms you felt in here. The comparison is on merit, but that the comparison is true and not a comparison in which obstructionism is used simply to prevent this House from deciding and making a proposal to the country. And I would also like to add one more element to the question of electoral law. I fully agree that electoral law is a sensitive issue. I fully agree - as President Renzi has also said - that citizens should be given the opportunity to choose their Members and their representatives. I fully agree with the issue of rebalancing the thresholds and the overall issue that is at debate, but I do not believe that there is really a constitutional relationship between the reform of the Constitution and the electoral law. This link exists at the present political moment, at this juncture, but it is a political bond, because to no one escapes that the electoral law is an ordinary law and it is changed - as has been shown unfortunately in 2005 - in a beating, while the Constitution is something much more definitive and much more decisive, on which, therefore, it is not conceivable that the constitutional model goes well in the face of an electoral law that appears suitable to the desired. The legal-constitutional issues, but also constitutional policy issues, are different. No one is closed to confrontation, but I repeat: let us not escape the confrontation and decision on this constitutional model and let us try to do so also in relation to the positivity of the debate that has taken place today, purifying and saving those amendments that have the characteristic of having decisive and qualifying points of a position. Let's get rid of this boulder to offer the representation of a Senate bogged down in the rules and in a sterile opposition that is incapable of really reaching the confrontation and, in certain political forces, afraid to come to the confrontation of merit, so as to see the maximum expression of the system of democracy, that a majority can choose and take responsibility for its own decisions. We shall therefore vote as a Democratic Party against this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u235	I would like to inform my colleagues that several senators have pointed out to the Presidency that they intend to speak. I'm telling you since you guys have a chance to move while I'm still here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u238	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to clear out some of the misunderstandings that have arisen in this debate. First of all: maintaining the senate's electivity, as some previous colleague mentioned, does not mean maintaining two rooms with the same tasks. We have already said on several occasions that the maintenance of perfect bicameralism does not have many followers in this House and perhaps does not even have them. The point, however, is that in this XVII legislature, in this House and in the other, a political force has entered with 25% of the consents, built in a few months. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u239	Your time has run out, Senator, but we can give you another minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u240	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Thank you, Mr President. At this point, when citizens so forcefully ask for one more representation, one more democracy, the choice of electing a House with a second level election, leaving in some way to what is considered caste the choice of a smaller part to be sent to the Senate, from a political point of view is a suicidal choice. This, among other things, would not remove the creation of two rooms with different competences, as many of us have even proposed. So the problem isn't to stay the way we are right now. The overcoming of this state is peacefully accepted by the majority of this House. What is not accepted is the reduction of democratic spaces for our electorate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u241	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u243	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it appropriate to support this amendment and the explanation of vote allows me to clarify a few points to Senator Pagliari, who will obviously have distracted himself at some point. I have made, like other colleagues, the proposal to include, within the constitutional reform, a different model and a different institutional structure, i.e. the suppression of the Senate as a second Chamber (among other things with a non-elective Senate, in case it should remain) could be compensated by the direct election of the Head of State by increasing its role, functions and competences. It is not true, therefore, that we can only say no. The truth is that this reform is not born in Parliament because all the objections of Senator Pagliari could have found acceptance and certainly listened, where the reform had come to life in this House, even better if on a law of parliamentary initiative. We learned from the press that a pact had taken place off the Nazarene (which, let us not forget chronologically, was at first a pact on electoral law) which was then known, always vaguely, indistinctly and indeterminately, to be also a pact on constitutional reform. Therefore, this reform is already born with nebulous contours, outside the parliamentary context and, if Senator Pagliari allows me to say so, from the political context. Senator De Petris is right when she says that in this House we have two stone convents, which are the two signatories to the Nazarene Pact: one of which has never been elected, while the second is no longer a senator. Therefore, to use the term of extra-parliamentary reform, which is born in places and between people who are outside the parliamentary classrooms is not to use a derogatory or lying adjective that you want to say. Senator Pagliari called us back to the dawn of the Republic. And of course he said something that everyone knows: a nation that comes out of twenty years of dictatorship, that faces a war, that sees in the classrooms of Parliament or the constituent Assembly two great forces that are more or less equal, one of social-communist matrix and another of Catholic, popular and liberal matrix, is the result of a compromise. Many of the ambiguities and frenziedness are the result of that compromise and of those times, of that history and of those moments of life. But to say that the abolition of universal suffrage is in itself a modernization compared to that time is not good. That's why of the two one: either the Senate does not serve in the constitutional architecture that everyone can legitimately propose, and it closes, or, if there is the Senate, whatever its functions, the tasks that they want to attribute to this Senate, the only adjectivation and the only specificity to which one cannot give up is the election by direct suffrage of the members of this second Chamber. And it is good here to remind the bystanders that lies at the Senate the bill at first signature Caliendo, who had brilliantly solved the problem with the reduction of 200 MPs and 150 senators and who had, with the subdivision of subjects and competences, avoided at the root the perfect bicameralism. If the idea of reform had been born within this House, I believe that no one could have forgotten a law which, in the 16th legislature, had been voted by a very large majority and could have been discussed. So I context at the root the statements of Senator Pagliari, We are opposing not because it is only our right, but because nothing is better than the worst; so closing the Senate for us is better than having a non-elective Senate. And - beware - it is by no means true that, whatever the method of election, democracy is saved, because we could have, as the Constitutional Court has stated, twists. We are talking about a majority which is formed in the House of Deputies on the presence of 142 Members who would inconstitutionally constitute a parliamentary majority and therefore with a source of legitimacy that the Constitutional Court disowns. Then, when the craving for power, the craving for the whole bench reaches such doses of cynicism and overkill, as happened for the reform proposed by Prime Minister Renzi, it is clear that those who do not recognize themselves in those formulations can do nothing but what we are doing, a very simple thing: this reform had to pass underneath the stage before the summer suspension of the work, so much so that the Italicum had to come before the constitutional reform. Will you explain to me why this is still in the House and today it is used as a compensatory pillar for those who vote on this reform, by stopping their noses? I don't think there are any free minds and intellect men in the ranks of the New Right Center who don't understand what I've been able to figure out as well. They are dismantling the compensatory pillar of the lowering of the thresholds and waiting for that of the introduction of the preferences that - be careful - will have the corrective for which the first of the list will be elected regardless of the preferences and those after will have to be slaughtered with the preferences to grab the next seats. Dear friends, this is a constituent context, in which the game is played for future electoral benefits... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. D'ANNA (GAL). ... of this or that other political force. If these are the prerequisites, why are we scandalized if the climate is not idyllic? The game at stake is not the constitutional architecture but the survival of some parties and the craving for power of those who govern and want to continue to govern in the coming years, without the legitimacy of the popular vote. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u244	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u246	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to point out to you that the 5 Star Movement wants to take Parliament to the streets; in fact, we have brought a square to Parliament. You see how much more effervescent, serene, relaxed and smiling is the discussion when you talk in your face, in your face. But I have to say something a little peppery to Senator Pagliari, who accuses us of not having an organic design: well, maybe an organic design would be there if we had adopted as a basic text what we hesitated from the discussion in the Commission and not what the Government had brought and imposed, then massacred by the constitutionalists auditions. It was a cholabrode of nonsense. Perhaps it would have been more organic to understand our proposal if we had not put the vote on these articles back to the Commission. However, Mr Pagliari, if you want our amendments summarized in a small volume, we give them to you and read them all together - there are only 200 - and you understand that there is a design. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a plan which provides for a harmonic reduction of Members not only in order to reduce costs, but also in order not to have an imbalance between the two Chambers meeting in a common sitting - what has been said and renamed - in the election of the guarantee bodies and of the President of the Republic. We have accepted the idea that the Senate no longer gives confidence; we have accepted the hypothesis - we have made proposals - of differentiations between the Chambers, but we have maintained the idea that they should have exclusive competences for a series of very simple and almost trivial reasons to explain: she laughs, senator: I will do it after a Bignami, maybe down in the square. First, if the two rooms have different functions, they work double at the same time. We have challenged the fact that they are made up of appointed persons, because the appointed politician does the interests of lobbyists and not of the nation. You wrote it as you no longer represent the nation. Moreover, if it is elected, then with exclusive tasks, it works full time: the regional councillors will have to do kangaroos from one side to the other of Italy and will probably hurt both functions, unless the decisions are made elsewhere and these appointed senators will not want to stick the label of hand lift, which Mr Martelli well illustrated some time ago (of Latin, indeed South American memory). I believe that women should put a hand on this amendment. I am not reminding you of a part of your history that has its roots in the suffragettes to tell you how much women have paid and struggled for suffrage. From the women of the 5 Star Movement came a testimony and from the women of the Democratic Party came laughing smiles, like those I see even now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please make a more general speech. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I said I'd be a little peppery. Then maybe we'll talk more lovingly downstairs. I would like the Democratic Party itself, but also this whole House, to remember why we have a Senate, a Republic today and why we want it to continue to be so. That's all I'm gonna say, and they're gonna talk about the facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Many Senators of the M5S Group are standing in the middle of the hemicycle.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u247	You see, he got the applause from the square?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u248	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u250	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would not have spoken if Mr Pagliari had not argued his reasons so that I could not agree with him. The main issue is the coherence of the reform and the proposed system. For me elective senate or elected with second degree election are not dogmas. Surely both choices can be made; but this is where consistency is needed: how can we share the choice not to make an elective Senate by universal suffrage on the basis of the argument that the competences of the Senate are different from those of the Chamber and, therefore, necessarily a Chamber must be elected by universal suffrage and the other not? Different competences do not prevent the electoral system from being the same because it is the competences written in the Constitution that justify differences and not the electoral system. The second question is how can the system proposed with two Chambers with both legislative powers be coherent, even if one is elected by universal suffrage with respect to a constitutional architecture where the bodies carrying out administrative functions are elected by universal suffrage? In other words, a legislative competence of the Senate that remains in this proposal must be the expression of an elected body with a system of second degree and, instead, an institution such as the Municipality, which has a purely administrative function, must be elected by a system by universal suffrage. Members who argue against the differentiation of the electoral system must demonstrate the consistency of this reasoning. Then let's not stick to the mirrors. If we want a system that moves away from the complexity of political management, we introduce a distance between the complexity of society and its representation in relation to the objectives of government that we want to pursue. It's legitimate. It is not said that we are heading towards an authoritarian turning point, although I would remind my colleagues that at other times the various bodies gradually lost their relationship with the universal electorate. Just remember that at some point the Municipal Councils no longer served because certainly the complexity of the administrative management led in the direction of a greater synthesis. At other times the emblematic figure of the podestà was invented. For Christ's sake! We have changed the names, but proposed a system of local institutions with certain electoral systems that have approached those original ideas at least for the behavior, often podestarian. Everyone sings it and plays it their way. However, I would ask myself, and I also ask myself, for an effort of consistency. [[Applause from the groups (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u253	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business. I have seen all the discussions that have taken place these days and I have made a speech in the first Commission when I was given the opportunity: if we want to make our contribution to the draft law in the House, I think it is time to reflect. I now turn to you, President: it does not seem right to continue this debate when there are 50 Members talking about something else in front of the Presidency. I would also like to appeal to you because for those who, like myself, try to listen to the speeches of my fellow Members, this very listening phase is made very difficult. I do not refer to the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which governs the stage of turmoil because it does not seem to me that these are the conditions, but see if you can give the opportunity to listen to the speeches of colleagues to those who, like myself, want to do so. [[Applause from Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u254	Not everyone has our resistance. However, let us now return to the vote, so that everyone reaches his place. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1606 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to amendments 1.1607 tabled by Senator Campanella, 1.1608 tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, 1.1609 tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, and 1.1610 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u257	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that the sitting for the celebration of a mass will be suspended shortly. In the event of a suspension, when will the House resume its work?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u258	Given the particular situation and the need to continue, I would have thought of suspending the sitting from 8 p.m. to 8 p.m.45 p.m. [[Comments.]] Then we suspend from 8:00 to 9:00. Not making any comments, so it remains established. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1611.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u261	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I'd like to understand something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I can explain it to you... PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you. When the senators intervene on the order of business or on a point of order, is there an arbitrary interpretation, in the sense that the minutes are taken away from the Group or, normally, in accordance with Rule 92, on a point of order, is the debate suspended? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're all accounted for. This is well known, it has always been so, and it will be so. Time is counted for any intervention, also because we have often allowed real interventions on the order of business. PUGLIA (M5S). I never did.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u264	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have voted for the Commission's text with incoherent aims: we have already voted for the electoral system of the elective Chambers (which, however, are directly or indirectly elected, however, elected). Then I believe, President, that we should begin to discuss the functions of the new Senate. Only if we discuss the functions will we have the opportunity to discuss its composition. I didn't vote twice because, if I don't know what the new Senate is, I can hardly make a reasoned vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Caliendo, do you want to indicate an amendment, or do you want to put everything away until you get to the amendments that refer to the functions? What's your proposal? Complete your thinking. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). In the Commission we discussed earlier the functions and then the composition: then it was Articles 1 and 2. Then I ask that the rapporteurs and the government tell us whether we can follow the same technique used in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u267	CRIMI (M5S). President, I have not understood the news of the mass that is circulating. Will a Mass be celebrated? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, this has nothing to do with it. CRIMI (M5S). The voice of a mass is circulating and, therefore, I ask you whether the suspension of work from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. is due to this. It's just to understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not why. CRIMI (M5S). So, Mr President, tell me what the reason for the suspension of work is and who requested it. I know a mass will be celebrated. A senator - I don't remember if Senator Bignami or Senator Mussini - stressed how Sunday work went to violate an article in the Constitution that guarantees the right to respect... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you oppose suspension? Tell me what the problem is. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to know why I too must attend a mass tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tomorrow you will advance your demands. We're gonna have to suspend the work. Let's not complicate this. We had a break last night. We'll make it longer tonight. We're tired. We worked. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u270	GIOVANARDI (NCD). President. - The next item is the order of business. I understand the climate in this House... President. ...What climate...? GIOVANARDI (NCD). ... A climate in a certain sense nervous. We saw him. I understand the parliamentary needs, but not the irony about the celebration at 8 p.m. in the parliamentary session, in Vicolo Valdina, of a mass of solidarity with those who are currently being persecuted, killed or forced to flee because they are Christians throughout the world. I find ironies out of place here. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] Anyone who wants to go goes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u271	Senator Giovanardi, these are problems and issues outside the work of the House. I had proposed a suspension; we all agreed to do it together; so the problem of mass does not concern the House. Anyone who wants to go there goes. TAVERNA (M5S). But when? Who agrees? It's called mass! AIROLA (M5S). It's inappropriate! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1611, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1612, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1613, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1614, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1615, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1616, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1617, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1618, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1.1619, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1620, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1621 has been withdrawn. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know whether we are on page 678 or on page 686, because there is also one equal to page 686. This review has not yet been done despite the fact that it has been requested several times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. We're on page 678. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1622, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendments 1,1623, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, and 1,1624, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1625, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.1626 to 1.1650 have been declared inadmissible, as they have been tabled by me. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1651, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I liked the "Gild of the Elected." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, the amendment has been declared inadmissible. I'm sorry, but you can't vote for it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1652, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1653, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1654, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1655, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u274	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I am saying this for you: let us now take the suspension, because I see you in difficulty.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u275	There is absolutely no need, but thank you anyway. Amendments 1.1656 to 1.1665 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1666.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u278	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.1666.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u279	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1667, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.1668 to 1.1677 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1678, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1679, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.1680, 1,1681, 1.1682 and 1.1683 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1684, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators, up to the words 'Council of Representatives'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1684 and amendments 1.1685 and 1.1686 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1687, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1688, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1689 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1690, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, up to the words "federal of the Republic." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1690 and amendments 1.1691 to 1,1702 are therefore excluded, with the exception of amendment 1,1699, which has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1703, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, up to the words 'federal' of the autonomous states. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1703 and amendment 1,1704 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u282	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you had the first part of Amendment 1,1690 voted, didn't you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, until the Federal words of the Republic. CRIMI (M5S). And the second part? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is kangaroo, to use a term today recurring. CRIMI (M5S). That's two things that have nothing to do with it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The cut is after the "federal" words of the Republic and precludes amendments 1,1691, 1.1692 and 1.1693. CRIMI (M5S). I renew my question because my colleagues may not have read the amendment. If you read it, you realize what I'm saying. In the first part we talk about replacing the words "Repubblica" with the words "federal" of "Repubblica." Then they say: Therefore, after Article 27, insert the following 27-a. (...)..................................................................................................................... So it's another article. But this article, at least in paragraph 1 - which I request at this point, President, to have the vote or that the presenter ask for the vote - proposes to replace in Article 104, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution, the words "and for a third by Parliament in common sitting" with the words "for a sixth by the Chamber of Deputies and for a sixth by the Federal Senate of the Republic." We are talking about elections of guarantee bodies. [[Comments by Senators Susta and Lanzillotta.]] We are talking about the division of the election of the judges of the CSM between the two Chambers. It's a subject that has nothing to do with what's written before, so I don't understand the sense of kangarooing it. Somebody explain it to me. The word "i" therefore refers to another article. All of this stands and has a perfect scope for amendment and regulation, yet we kangaroo it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u283	You confuse the split vote with the kangaroo rule. Running or not holding up is another problem. (Senator Buccarella puts a stuffed kangaroo on his desk.) I'd beg Senator Buccarella to take the kangaroo puppet off his desk. CRIMI (M5S). I'm sure it's confusing, but look, we're banning... president. If you continue to read Article 27-a, as stated in the amendment, you will see that it refers to the Federal Senate of the Republic. So there is still the possibility of cutting because we have already voted against the Senate being referred to as the "federal" of the Republic. CRIMI (M5S). All right, then we vote on the first word of each amendment and automatically the amendment lapses! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,1705.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u286	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of this amendment, in which we are talking about guarantees to ask the rapporteurs a question, because, honestly, I do not know: with the current reform, who elects the guarantee bodies, and in particular the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for the members of Parliament? When and if this reform will be approved, who will vote for these guarantee bodies?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u287	I would ask the rapporteurs to respond to President Azzolini's request for clarification. FINDING, rapporteur. It is in the text, President Azzolini: Parliament in common sitting, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned. TAVERNA (M5S). Bulgarian majorities! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1705, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, up to the words "federal" of the guarantees. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1,1705 and amendments 1,1706 and 1,1707 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1708, up to the words "of the autonomous" (it is written "of the athonomy" but we can consider it correct in "of the autonomous ones") presented by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1,1708 and amendment 1,1709 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1710, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1711, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1712, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 1,1713 has already been adopted. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1714, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1715, tabled by Senator Campanella, identical to amendment 1,1716, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1717.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u288	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u290	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to inform you that there is a station that lights up on its own. That's all I want to say; I think that's enough. (The senator indicates the benches to the extreme right of the hemicycle.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u291	I ask the Secretary Senators to check if there is a wrong card inserted without it matching the presence of a senator. Senator, thank you for your cooperation. WOMAN (M5S). It's the second station from the extreme. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Secretary Di Giorgi goes to the desks of the FI-PdL XVII Group and removes the card that does not correspond to the actual presence of a senator. Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1717, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, until we delete the second part of the amendment. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1717 and amendments 1,1718 to 1,1731 are therefore excluded, with the exception of amendment 1,1730, which has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1732, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1733 and 1,1734 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1735, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1736 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1737, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1738 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1739, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1740, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "universal and direct suffrage." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1740 and amendment 1,1741 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendments 1,1742, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1743, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1744, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1745, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the same functions." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1745 and amendments 1,1746, 1,1747 and 1,1748 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1749, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1750 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1751, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1752 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1753, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "universal and direct suffragio." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,17553 and amendments 1,1754, 1,1755 and 1,1756 are therefore excluded. Amendment 1,1757 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1758, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1759, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1760, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1761, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "universal and direct suffragio." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remainder of amendment 1,1761 and amendments 1,1762 to 1,1766, with the exception of amendments 1,1763 and 1,1765, which have been withdrawn, are excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1767, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1768, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1769 to 1,1772 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1773, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "universal and direct suffragio." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1773 and amendment 1,1774 are therefore excluded. Amendment 1,1775 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1776, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1777 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u292	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u294	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 1,1777 and ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u295	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1777, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, withdrawn by the presenters and subsequently made by Senator Crimi, identical to amendment 1,1778, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1779 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1780, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1781 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1782, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1783 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1784, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1786, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1785 and 1,1787 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1788, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1790, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1789 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u298	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 1,1789 and request the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It cannot be done, because it is identical to the amendments that have just been voted on and not adopted. CRIMI (M5S). No, Mr President, it is not the same, because there is the word'represents' which is missing in the two preceding paragraphs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Basically identical, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). That's another thing, then, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u299	Amendment 1,1791 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1792, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1793 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1794, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1795, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1796 and 1,1797 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1798, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1799 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1800, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1801 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1802, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1803 and 1,1804 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1805, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1806 and 1,1807 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1808, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, identical to amendments 1,1809, tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators, and 1,1810, tabled by Senator Mussini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I suspend the session until 9 p.m. Get some rest! (The sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9.06 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u302	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business and give a telegraphic consideration. We have had about 80 votes today with an absent senator who, however, was a voter. Three hundred witnesses, virtually all present in this House, witnessed the seizure of the card of an absent senator who, however, was a voter. I realize that for many of you this is normal, so much so that we, yesterday or the day before yesterday, had raised the same issue in this House, making the same complaint against a PD senator who was not present but was a voter. Let us not forget that this is a crime, because we do not want to talk about it. But I remember that we are not playing here, but we are writing the Constitution of the Italian Republic. The minutes - if it is true, as it is true, that someone who was absent voted - are a fake, as it was a fake to have a senator not present voted. I will finish the intervention because time is precious. Mr President, how do you intend to intervene in order to avoid leaving such days to the history of this country, which, among other things, are marked by minutes showing votes by senators who were not present in this House? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u303	In the meantime, we need to ascertain which votes the absent senator took part in and whether there is an influence of the vote on the votes. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Then the Presidency Council will be informed. [[Senator Crimi's lively comments]] Did you indicate the senator's name? [[Comments from Senators Gaetti and Crimes.]] We'll check the name from the card. We will deal with this in the Presidency Council, but we appreciate the cooperation because you know how much I care that everything takes place on a regular basis. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1811, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of the Senate. Have all the cards been distributed? Please let the assistants know if all the cards have been distributed. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1811, and amendment 1,1813, are therefore excluded, while amendments 1,1812, 1,1814, 1,1815 and 1,1816 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1817, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1818, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Senator Donno points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator, the vote is in progress. I will give you the floor at the end of the vote. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u306	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, there is another ghost hand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't tell me. WOMAN (M5S). I have to tell you, unfortunately. Between the benches of the New Right Center, in the second balustrade below, next to the telephone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg the Senator Secretary to look into this situation. WOMAN (M5S). They must have left the usual paper ball. Please record the name and surname of the senator who uses this device. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u307	Let's check it out. Please, senators, don't take the balls off if they're there. (Senator Albertini extracts a paper ball from the voting device of the station indicated by Senator Donno). Senator Albertini, do not pollute the crime scene. [[Comments from the NCD Group. Protests of Senators Airola and Santangelo. Senator Buccarella exposes a stuffed kangaroo]] Withdraw the card and the body of the crime. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u308	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u310	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, when I used that strong expression yesterday, I did not mean these balls, but that was clearly the result. [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u311	Amendment 1,1819 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1821, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1822, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1823, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1825, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1824, 1,1826, 1,1827, 1,1828 and 1,1829 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1830, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1820, which was rejected as identical to Amendment No 1,1831, which has been withdrawn in the meantime. This is the reason for the deposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u314	MARTON (M5S). I would like to comment on the order of business. Since no sanctions are imposed, I would like to put the ball in the voting mechanism and leave for ten minutes, if I may, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u315	The sanctions will be imposed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1820, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,1832.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u316	Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u317	Amendment 1,1832 has been withdrawn, but it returns to the field, because Senator Crimi does so. Did I guess, Senator Crimes?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u318	Mr President, I do so myself, but I would like to say this in order to keep it on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u319	Excuse me, you're right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u320	CRIMI (M5S). Then I ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u321	I can't interpret your thinking to this extent. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1832, tabled by Senators Maran and Susta, subsequently withdrawn by the proposers and made by Senator Crimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1833 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1834, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,1835 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1836.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u322	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u324	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to propose a split vote. The first part reaches the word "third" and the second part includes the word "fourth."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u325	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1,1836, tabled by Senator Martelli. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I note that the parliamentary assistants, regardless of my invitation, have closed the doors to proceed with the counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u328	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I appeal to the majority. The request for a split vote results in two votes, so it takes longer to vote against and then to make a counter-test than just to take two votes. [[Applause from Senators Crosio and Crimes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u329	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1836, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,1837 and 1,1838 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u330	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u332	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 1,1838 and request that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u333	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1838, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, later withdrawn by the proposers and made by Senator Crimi, up to the words "the third". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,1838 and amendment 1,1839 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1840, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u334	I'm asking you to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u335	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, here too we are asking for a split vote. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u336	The vote is already in progress, so you will be able to make this request for the next amendment that we will vote on, since we have so many. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1841.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u339	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, now, on this amendment, my request will be made at random and it will not have any logic, while it had it on the previous one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You'll find another with a logic. CRIMI (M5S). I therefore call for the amendment to be voted on separately and for the first vote to reach the words 'government'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u340	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 1,141 tabled by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1841, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1842, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1843, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1844, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The vote is already in progress, Senator Martelli. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen, we cancel the opening of the vote, which we postpone, so much time do we have. AIROLA (M5S). That's it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor, Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u341	First of all, Mr President, I must point out that I have a faulty microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u342	We can hear you very well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u343	MARTELLI (M5S). It is not right, Mr President, and it falls. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u344	Since she's too tall, furious to pull him up too much, he's loose.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u345	MARTELLI (M5S). Having said that, Mr President, I would ask that Amendment 1,1844 be voted on separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell us what they are. MARTELLI (M5S). The first is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic exercise collectively the legislative function." PRESIDENT. - The debate is "Collectively," not "collegiously." MARTELLI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. The second part is as follows: "separately the other functions established by the Constitution." The third is that they may meet in a joint sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u346	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 1,1844, tabled by Senator Martelli. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1844, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1845, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1846, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1847, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u347	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak for an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1.1848.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u348	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1848.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u349	Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u350	MARTELLI (M5S). The amendment deserves this, also because the number coincides with the date of the beginning of the first Italian War of Independence. With it, in fact, we are putting forward the following proposal, on which we invite you to vote in favour, for a very simple reason: it seems that it is proposed to achieve what already exists now - that is, the Senate elected by universal and direct suffrage and on a regional basis - but it is not applied in the terms in which the Constitution would like it, i.e. without multiple candidatures. It is correct, in fact, that if the Senate is to be elected on a regional basis, so that this makes sense and therefore can really be called the Senate of the autonomous, albeit administrative - this would be the meaning and spirit of the constitutional norm - it would be enough to apply it correctly and prevent multiple candidatures. Each candidate is only in a college and exclusively in the college of membership which, by chance, is the rule by which the 5 Star Movement selects its candidates. Each of us has been able to apply only in the constituency in which he is resident. So we can only propose it, but it is also an extremely sensible thing. Why universal suffrage? Although it has been said, it must be reiterated that universal suffrage is the basic principle of protecting people: it protects gender equality and everything else, for example linguistic minorities. This is the first fundamental concept. The second concept you consider wrong, but I would really like you to understand. Probably some of you think that when we make an explanation of vote, we make the "super-cock" we think we convince you of nothing. The truth is, you think wrong. Actually, we're trying to see if there's a conscience inside you that can understand this. [[Comments of Senator Fornaro]] If you stop being funny and listen, maybe we can communicate a little better! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u351	Senator Martelli, do your surgery. I see that he only addresses one part. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u352	[[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, please, this way the provocations are born. Complete your intervention, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). I'd like to be heard. This is a fundamental concept. Electivity, universal suffrage, is a not too recent achievement. We got universal suffrage for the first time in 1792 and it took a revolution to establish the most basic right: citizens' choice of representatives. This is incredible. It is a right that in Italy we obtained long after. Even when there was the Statute, there were only 855,000 people who could vote at first. Very few. Therefore, making one of the two rooms non-elective means, in fact, cutting people's choice of representatives in half. If you really think it's trivial, you're wrong, because it's essential for the citizen to have a reference. That's something I'd like you to think about. Each of you, when you vote on these amendments, think about it, ask yourself whether you really want to go back on a conquest. Think of all the battles of civilizations that have been waged, not only in Italy, to gradually extend this suffrage, first to minorities - ethnic ones, but they were not there in Italy - then to gender equality because women started voting later. So each of the proposals that we make serves to maintain a right, because the injury, the compression of rights also starts from this [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you've never thought about it, I'd like you to think. Every time you vote on a decree-law you are compressing your constitutional freedoms, because the Constitution says that the decree-law must be used with the dropper, not as if you were pouring out of a bottle, but as if it were a good wine. Every time you make a derogation you put in place a compression of constitutional freedoms. People died to make a constitution. That sounds rhetorical, but it's true. Constitutions cost people blood. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And that's why we put everything we have here. It's important. Mr President, even when we settle an amendment saying that we vote on the next one is wrong, because here every amendment has a fundamental impact on people's lives: 20 seconds to cancel a vote and redo it is something very important. That's what I'm saying. Every time we vote on an amendment - we have now acquired it, we vote on it by crushing it with our finger - we do something that affects people's lives and therefore should not be dismissed in this way, it is not so immediate. If I were at home and I saw him being dismissed like this, maybe with a smile, I would think that we need to think, we need to understand what is being done. [[Applause from Senator Fattori]] This is what I am trying to convey to you: everything we do must be weighed down. There have been previous amendments which, even for a single word, had an enormous regulatory scope. If this happens again, I will point out this to you, because it is important to be aware of what is being done. Then I am sure - or I hope - that each of you, in your conscience, will ask yourself whether this reform, as it is, must be carried out in individual parts and in individual parts. Because we are here and have a huge power and we must use it well and not let someone tell us what to vote uncritically. In the end we are sovereigns, not them (Senator Martelli indicates the benches of the Government). They are guests here, but we are the sovereigns: let's always remember them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u355	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, partly because Mr Martelli has stimulated me. That sounds... [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] Intellectual stimulation is useful at certain times, isn't it? I was saying that it seems to me that here we are taking on this responsibility for the constitutional marathon by not having clear the scenario in which we are going to identify the next constitutional principles in which we want to make the right to a direct election for the first House, the Chamber of Deputies, and the right to decline, with respect to our time and our time - why not? I now explain why - to an indirect election of the Second Chamber, that is the Senate. It must be said that yesterday, in the general chaos (it will interest few but I mean it at the level of anecdote), I went to reread the Acts of the Constituent of September 1947 to see how this elaborated article 55 in which we are debating about the perfect bicameralism. I must say that it would be worthwhile, apart from all the constitutionalists, to go and read the constitutional debate that there was, even in the light of the country that we have today, which has changed a lot since 1947. I would also like to clarify more explicitly what elements lead me to believe that it is in our full duty - not only right - to change, precisely, the representation of the Upper House, that is, the Senate, in which we are. If we go to read what Senator Giolitti said, we see how his party carried on the hypothesis of a single Chamber representative of the Italian Parliament, while Mr Mortati, on 17 September, made a long disquisition in order - look at it - to the fact that it would be appropriate for the second Chamber to be able to have a representation of the territories (he called it exactly "Federal Senate"). Among other things, many of the figures who also expressed themselves tonight in a strongly conservative way compared to the theme of the elective Senate then spent terms such as those we saw (e.g. "cohorte" rather than "assemble" but also purely religious terms) to identify the Senate, almost mocking it. In fact, this Senate that you would like to defend in words, in the reality of the facts then some ridicule or denigrate. It comes to mind then, dear Senator Martelli, dear colleagues and dear President, that the Senate has changed a lot since 1947. First of all, the Italian municipalities, thanks to local taxes, have had and have the opportunity to carry out a local policy of absolute primacy, of absolute interest; but the Regions were not done in 1947: the Regions took shape in 1968-1970. Therefore, we have had a maturation of territorial representations that have not seen adequate representation in the so-called Upper House. It was not and certainly is not enough what happened with the reform of Title V, as carried out in 2001; it is not enough for the known events of conflict that originated precisely these mechanisms, which kept part of the representation at a level of de facto inferiority towards the Italian Parliament. That is not the reason for this right of territorial representation that I would have liked. That is why I voted in favour of the amendment on the Senate of the Self-Governments, which I would have liked to clarify, if possible, by making more clarity on representation, indicating exactly how prominent that of the territories is. This is also the aim of the constitutional organic laws that colleagues, who will one day sit in this House, will approve according to constitutional needs or European laws. In this respect, the laws which we shall be voting on in the next few days will also have their contribution and their aegis. I say this because perhaps it is appropriate to avoid exalted and overbearing tones in the will to represent a Senate today not fully capable of understanding what is happening. On the other hand, we must translate our absolute will to understand that the future Senate is and will be nothing more than the fruit of a mature and changed time, in which territorial representation will have a title full of existence. It will finally be the full fulfillment of that discussion that had led the fathers and mothers of the Republic to reason for days and days in order to what would have been best for this country. We are therefore fully aware and certainly able to build it! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u356	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1848, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Ciampolillo repeatedly points to PD benches.]] Can I wait for Senator Buccarella to get him to vote? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). President! President! Why are you pretending not to see the pianists? Take action! Stop! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Senator Ciampollo! The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). BUCCARELLA (M5S). I'm asking to talk. (Senator Buccarella shows on his desk a plush depicting a kangaroo.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, before I give you the floor, I would like you, for the second time, to remove that kangaroo; otherwise it ends up here, instead of giving a tapir we will give the kangaroo. Get him off the counter! CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, it's okay for them to be PD, but take action! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] You want me to give the kangaroo the word, too? Senator Ciampollo! Senator Buccarella, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u357	Mr President, on this occasion I would like to point out that perhaps the presence of the puppet ideally evokes other puppets, in our view, outside this House but which are determining the outcome. The presence of a kangaroo plush, however, I believe that it is much less offensive than what is still happening today in the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u358	Senator Buccarella, I respect your opinion, but you cannot keep it in the Chamber, I have already said so once and I no longer want to repeat it; Otherwise, as I said, it ends up that instead of tapiro we give the kangaroo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u359	The kangaroo is gone. Personally, I would ask that you use the same determination to censor and take concrete measures against the pianists. Having said that, Mr President, I asked for the floor only to point out that, despite your goodwill, I was unable to vote, and so I would like my vote in favour to be recorded in the last vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u360	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u363	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to put to the record that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u364	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1849, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,1850.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u365	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u367	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for the separate vote on Amendment No 1,1850: in particular, I would ask that the first part be voted, from the words 'in paragraph 1' to the words 'was elected', and then the remaining part of the amendment. If I may, then I would like to make an explanation of vote on the first part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u368	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1,1850, tabled by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,1850. This is the kangaroo. Please, Senator Crimes, you can make your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u369	Mr President, I asked for the separate vote on the amendment. The House said no, but you are now proceeding in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u370	No, I'm applying the kangaroo; we still haven't figured out the difference.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u371	However, I urge Senator Buccarella not to take out the kangaroo again, otherwise I am forced to take a seizure order. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Buccarella has some emotional shortcomings, so he has certain needs. Tomorrow he will present a medical certificate for the kangaroo! Apart from these lines, Mr President, we have understood very well how the kangaroo works. However, allow me to make a comment on the subject, because I believe that we need to address certain issues, which we have already talked about. The Senate represents the institutions: this says the text dismissed by the Commission. The Senate therefore does not represent the citizens: this is the meaning of the text that comes out. What will happen in these classrooms will not be to represent or protect the interests of citizens. It is written, among other things, in the same explanatory report of the Government's bill - I would like you to look at it - that direct election by citizens would be a very serious and dangerous thing, because each senator could protect the interests of the citizens of his territories: it says just so, perhaps in a little euphemistic terms, but the meaning is that. I invite you to go and look at what you have written, because you may have taken some old text and have not noticed the abomination that there has been. It is therefore dangerous to give a direct vote. The Senate represents the institutions: this means that the senator who will come to sit in these benches will not represent the citizens, but the president of the Junta, his colleagues advisors and of the Junta: he will therefore represent the institution Region and not the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] This amendment would show some reason. It wouldn't change anything: everything you want will remain - first of all non-electivity - but it would bring back the reason for what it represents who sits in these cracks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a fundamental principle: those who sit in these schools, whatever the method of election, direct or indirect, must represent the citizens, but cannot represent additional institutions: we already have the State-Regions Conference that can carry out this task. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u372	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1850, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "Autonomous Provincia" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of the amendment and amendment 1,1851 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,1852.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u373	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u375	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, since so many amendments are being voted on on the elective Senate, Our Lady has appeared tonight: there is a senator in the Chamber who we have never seen and who has come to earn 14,000 euros with a two-hour presence! Here is Senator Verdini, who is part of the famous Nazarene Pact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but what are you doing here, Senator Castaldi? CASTALDI (M5S). I'm taking action on the order of business. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u376	What jobs? I thought he was making an appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u377	CASTALDI (M5S). No, Mr. President. The fact is that I have to vote on amendments concerning the elective Senate and therefore an extra-parliamentary pact between three people. The President-in-Office of the Council has never met, and the other person seems to me to be in a home doing something. [[Comments of Senator Mandelli]] ; one has arrived. We have a great opportunity to know what is written in that pact, to vote with awareness on the amendments to our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to have Senator Verdini say what is in the Nazarene's secret pact, so also the party you have been taking part in since yesterday...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u378	I do not allow you to make any hints, so I take the floor because you are not intervening on the order of business. CASTALDI (M5S). Why not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take your word for it. SANTANGELO (M5S). The Nazarene pact, President. AIROLA (M5S). It's better not to talk about the Nazarene. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] If you keep yelling, sit outside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1852, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1853, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1854, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1855, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1856.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u379	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u380	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u381	MARTELLI (M5S). I would ask for the separate vote on the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Which parts do you want to separate? MARTELLI (M5S). The first part goes from the words "the Chamber" to the words "territorial institutions" (the second part from "each Chamber") to the words "the Constitution" (the third part is made up of the last period until the words "the Chambers").
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u382	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1,1856, tabled by Senator Martelli. CRIMI (M5S). Nobody opposed it, Mr President: why do you put it to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It doesn't matter. SANTANGELO (M5S). How does it not matter? CRIMI (M5S). There was no expression of opposition. [[Comments of Senator Bruno]] There is no need for opposition (Senator Santangelo shows the Rules of the Senate). Close the Rules of Procedure. It's not approved. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1856.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u383	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u384	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u385	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would have said the same thing if the request for a split vote had been accepted. Amendment 1,1856, like the one I mentioned earlier, contains a small difference from the current situation, but great, because one of the biggest obstructions that are attributed to the bicameral system, as conceived, is that both Chambers must give prior confidence to government action. This, if you remember, was decisive for the failure of a possible government to lead Bersani, because he would have trusted the House but would not have obtained it in the Senate. Therefore, a change in this sense, namely giving the House ownership of the trust relationship, at least as far as initial trust is concerned, is an important change, which really goes in the sense of safeguarding the legislative function, the functions of Parliament, and making it at least easier for the government to enter the field and take initial action. Now we have seen it: the initial confidence is not important; when you present the games have been done before. It has become a facade operation: when the government comes before the Chambers, it already has the confidence in its hands, but trust in reality the Government, in a parliamentary Republic, should conquer it on the ground, based on the action it carries out. Here is the other question that fits in with this reasoning: the government should take forward not its legislative action but the legislative action that comes from the majority programme. Now we are in a situation where, if the government does not come with a bite, that is the decree-law, we do nothing and stand still waiting for the bite. Anyway, it's not funny. If, on the other hand, the government had the precise task of stimulating the legislative action resulting from the majority programme, all the problems would be solved; it would be enough for the programme presented in the election campaign not to remain a dead letter. In fact, the program is spent in the electoral campaign, but then dies there. Therefore, the Government, obtained only by one of the two chambers, should clarify the programme of the majority and seek the intersections with the programmes of the other forces that intend to support that majority; at that time, it would seek consensus in the Chamber. This would be the consecration of a parliamentary democracy. If things were really to be streamlined, it would be enough to make small changes. A small change would be to let only one of the two rooms be trusted (I repeat only one). Among other things, this amendment is included in one of the amendments that we have tabled (which we will come to examine sooner or later). It is not necessary, therefore, to make a huge change, also because - I support it as a mathematician - in a physical system described by mathematical equations, if one wants to understand how the individual parameters influence within a physical phenomenon, these must not all be changed together. It's like a recipe: if you have a complicated recipe with 30 ingredients and you change them all 30, you can switch from a crappy recipe to another crappy recipe without knowing what happened. Changes must be small to understand what determines each one of them. If this reform were approved and produced an even more entangled system than the present one, you would not know what to blame for. You may have introduced contradictory rules: a good one that you don't know what it is, erased by a bad one that you don't know what it is, because you have lost track of the action of each thing you have inserted. The constitutional changes have all this process because each modification needs to be designed and tested, one by one. [[Applause from Senator Catalfo.]] I would invite you to take the test: if only the possibility for one of the two Chambers to give initial confidence had been suppressed, there would have been a change, in the sense that we would not have this Government, but we would have another. If it seems little to you tell me; to me it seems a lot. This amendment contains an incredible force, although it contains a few words. For this reason, if you really want to do what I think is in your mind, I invite you to vote on it and see how things could change with this change. It might surprise you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u386	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u387	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u388	TAVERNA (M5S). I also intervene to ensure the proper continuation of the work of the Assembly, since the Senators of the Democratic Party Group are very attentive. Given that there are police commissioners in this Chamber, we ask that undersecretary Lotti, who was smiling yesterday about the speeches of a senator of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, take a place where he should sit, not in the place of the President of the Council or that of the Ministers. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u389	Senator Taverna, Undersecretary Lotti is not sitting in the seat of the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u390	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). He's sitting on a seat reserved for ministers. [[Comments by Senator Mario Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u391	Undersecretary Lotti, please move. You are not sitting in the place of the President of the Council, but in the place of the Ministers. Undersecretary Lotti changes places. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you. It's okay now, as you say. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1856, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1857, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (Senator Orellana asks for the floor.) (The vote was followed). We shall close this vote and you will be able to speak, Senator Orellana. [[Comments from the Mixed-ILC Group.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u392	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u393	Unfortunately, the timeliness: he is right. Please, Senator Orellana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u394	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, on this amendment 1,1857 I wanted to express my dissenting vote by the Group because, presumably, since Senator De Petris was first a signatory, the Group will vote in favour, although I have not had the opportunity to hear the explanation of vote. The amendment that this amendment introduces with respect to the basic text to which we are referring in fact eliminates the exercise of the function of political direction in the House of Deputies. I believe, however, that it is essential that at least one of the two chambers retains the function of political direction, as is obvious and necessary in a rule of law such as Italy. I hope now that the vote has been cancelled because I have not even been able to vote. Mine is a dissenting explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u395	We take note of your vote, also because you could not vote in dissent because there was no explanation of vote by your Group and therefore by your Parent Company so knowing what dissent is is difficult. You have declared your vote and we take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u396	I remind you of the peculiarity of the Mixed Group, which is a Group where you do not choose to go, but in some cases you are forced by events, so I cannot align with people with whom I do not share the same political line. So there is this peculiarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u397	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1858, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1859.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u398	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u399	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u400	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a separate vote on this amendment. The first part is: "The Chamber of Deputies may grant and revoke confidence in the Government" and the second part is: "Execute the legislative function and the function of political direction".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u401	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on amendment 1,1859, tabled by Senator Moronese. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1859, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1860, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1861, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1862, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1863, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1864, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1865, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1866, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1867, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "The Parliament" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,1867 and Amendment 1,1868 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1869, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1870, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1871, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1872, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1873, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1874, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1875, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1876, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,1877, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1,1878, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1879, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1880, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1881, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,1882, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1,1883, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1884, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,1885, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1,1886, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1,1887, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1,1888, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1,1889, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1,1890, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1892, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1891.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u402	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u403	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u404	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of my group and the explanatory statement is the same as before: I disagree with taking away the political direction of the House of Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u405	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1891, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u406	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u407	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u408	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stress that in the previous vote I would have liked to vote in favour but I could not vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u409	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1893, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1894, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1895, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1896, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.1897.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u410	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u411	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u412	[[The microphone shaft corresponding to Senator Marton's station is defective. Comments from the M5S Group]] We need to fix that microphone. Use the other one, Senator. I think it was the kangaroo that ate the base of the microphone! [[Laughter]] AIROLA (M5S). The kangaroo is eaten by the amendments, Mr President! MARTON (M5S). I have lost my voice to the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. I propose a split vote. Follow me well; I would like to divide amendment 1,1897: first vote, the words 'in paragraph 1'; second vote, the words '"Art. 55', in the third paragraph of this Article; the third vote; the words 'to replace the words 'to the fourth vote', the words 'to the control of the government', 'to the fifth vote', the words 'to the sixth vote', 'to the sixth vote', the words 'to the Parliament', 'to the seventh vote', the words 'to the control of the operation', 'to the eighth vote', the words 'to the Government', 'to the fifth vote'. I think it makes more sense than the ones you had Senator Ghedini vote for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u413	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on amendment 1,1897, tabled by Senator Marton. It's not approved. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). Wash your hands like Pontius Pilate!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u414	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u415	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u416	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1,1897, to turn it into an agenda. [[Applause from Senator Donno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u417	I would ask you to forward the text of the written agenda to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u418	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). For separate parts!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u419	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1898, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,1899, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1,1900, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1,1901, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1902, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1903, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1904, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,1905, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1,1906, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1,1907, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1908, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1909, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words indicated by the Constitution. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1909 and amendment 1.1910 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1911, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "territorial institutions." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1911 and amendment 1.1912 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1913, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1914.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u420	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u421	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u422	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, excuse me, in addition to the kangaroo, you are applying the leopard: you are running like a madman. Can you give me a chance to follow? If you slow down a little, you'll do me a favor. [[Laughter]] Nazarene, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u423	I'm glad you can't follow me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u424	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1914, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1915, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1916, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1917, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u425	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u426	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u427	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, if I ask you to speak on the order of business, we are running out of time, aren't we? I would like to speak about Mr Mogherini's hearing. What do we do? Do you scale time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's time-scaled. PETROCELLI (M5S). Then I don't do the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u428	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1918, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u429	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u430	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u431	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, if my speech concerns my colleagues, does it always take my time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, do you want to negotiate? PETROCELLI (M5S). I wish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please do the surgery if you have to. PETROCELLI (M5S). Yes, I must, ma'am. I was pleased to note that Mr Mogherini will report to the Commission tomorrow at 1.30 p.m. I imagine that there will be several of us going to the Commission to listen to the Minister and make some comments. I have seen that the time for the hearing is 1.30 p.m., so the House is immediately suspended. So I would like to draw your attention to a request to suspend the House's work so that the Minister can receive the comments with great calm and perhaps go beyond the time of resumption of the House's work, scheduled for 3 p.m. An hour and a half is not enough time for a debate that I think should be held in this House, but I understand - and we have already discussed it - because it has been passed to the Commission - I repeat - with great willingness of the President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do you mind if we deal with this tomorrow, since it concerns tomorrow's sitting? PETROCELLI (M5S). Because you ask us often and willingly to anticipate...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u432	You are right and thank you for making this anticipation. Tomorrow we are going to deal with the problem of the suspension of work, because the sitting is unique and it is only a suspension. Tomorrow we'll consider your request. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1919, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1920.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u433	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u434	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u435	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. I have tabled four amendments concerning the need to try to contribute, even for the benefit of the hard work being done by the rapporteurs, to fill a vulnus that can be determined in relation to the functions of the Senate, which are - in my humble opinion - undefined with regard to responsibilities in relation to the principles of expenditure. We have the permanence of the obligation to operate without mandate, but we have a Senate of the autonomy that should represent the territorial autonomy, therefore the Region and the municipalities. I believe that this creates an absolute imbalance between the role of the Senate and that of the House. With regard to budgetary issues, with explicit reference to Article 119 of the Constitution, this becomes or can become a land on which a souk is developed, a market in which blackmail policy can even lead to a development of the principles of balance which, from the constitutional text, should offer elements of greater guarantee. Therefore, I ask the rapporteurs and the government to reflect on the content and purpose of this amendment, pro posed in order to guarantee the principles of territorial cohesion, redefining the roles in a logic of balance between the functions of the House and those of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u436	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1920, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1921, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1922, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1923, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1924, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1925, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1926.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u437	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u438	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u439	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I will also speak later on the issue of the guarantee order, in order to better understand how the vote will take place, because I did not consider the answer given sufficient. Now, however, I ask the rapporteurs first for precise information: Article 81 of the Constitution is not touched on by this text, is it? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u440	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u441	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u442	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, we remain on the initial proposal for an invitation to withdraw, because Senator Azzollini's amendment reads as follows: ==References====External links==* Official website This is the only innovative part. We believe that constitutional law no. 1 of 20 April 2012 falls within the laws of the State and is therefore already expressly mentioned in that control activity provided for in the text. Constitutional law is a law of the State, so it is one of those already under control. We therefore maintain the call for the withdrawal of this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u443	Mr President, I thank the rapporteur, but I had asked another question: I wanted to know whether Article 81 of the Constitution has been amended in this text. That's my question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u444	Excuse me, do you want to know if an amendment changed it? Mr Azzollini (NCD). No, Mr President, perhaps I cannot explain why I am tired, so I insist on repeating my question, which is simple: if we adopt this rule as we have it today, would Article 81 of the Constitution be amended in any way? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u445	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u446	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u447	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. The adoption of this amendment does not change almost anything about Article 81. In Article 81, in the sixth paragraph, as proposed in the text of the Government, in place of the expression "of each Chamber" says "of the Chamber of Deputies." There is also an innumerable number of amendments that have been tabled on this subject, but this has nothing to do with Article 55. Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I did not get an answer to my timely question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u448	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u449	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u450	FINDING, rapporteur. President Azzollini, Senator Calderoli has actually answered his question. The only amendment to Article 81 is that in place of the words 'of each Chamber', when it refers to the legislative procedure relating to the sixth paragraph, then to the law of law, it says 'of the Chamber of Deputies', retaining the absolute majority as a requirement for the approval of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u451	The problem then remains, if I understood correctly, because of "Camere" article 81 does not speak in the sixth paragraph; it already speaks in the second, repeats it in the fourth and then resumes it otherwise because it refers to the absolute majority of the components of "Camere" each Chamber. I would like to make it clear what happens to this article after that. Meanwhile, from what I have read in the text, but it will certainly have escaped from me, and if patience has escaped, but if it has not escaped it is logical that it does not now have the sixth paragraph as it involves the other paragraphs of Article 81 that remain with the diction "Camere". Therefore, it would be useful for those who propose to speak of "Camera" or "Camera" or "Camera dei parliamentarians" to write correctly. But that's not the problem. The point for which it is not surpassable, in my humble opinion, the verification of the implementation of the constitutional law, which is not the law of the State but constitutional (the laws can be ordinary or constitutional and the latter are slightly different, so much so that in the law text that is presented to us have a different place in relation to the two Chambers), is the following (I want to insist on this point). Regardless of subjectivity (i.e. the two rooms) there is a problem. The constitutional law, which also here, Senator Finocchiaro... [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] Even in other laws as well as in the Constitution? We'll see about that later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u452	Senator Finocchiaro, please speak to the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u453	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr. President, I'm seriously trying to understand. The following basic problem remains: this Senate deals with territorial authorities. It says the constitutional law - not me - and then repeats the law of implementation that public administrations ensure the balance of budgets and the sustainability of public debt. How can one think that the House expressing public administrations does not deal with this issue? Sounds like a common sense rule to me. As you know, Mr President, I do not agree with the reform, but this is about trying to prevent a serious problem from arising. The Chamber that expresses the territorial autonomy, therefore the public administrations, does not deal with the sustainability of the public debt and the structural balance of the budget that those public administrations must contribute to achieve. It seems to me a perfectly logical thing for him to do that. Moreover - and I shall end, Mr President, by addressing the senators and the senators - let us remember that it is always with this set of rules that we introduced, in August 2011 and later, the possibility that the Chambers authorize the Government to deviate from the budget. There is the problem that we have recently used. In that case, when we had to authorize the Government to deviate from the structural balance in the DEF, together with the adoption of the resolution on the DEF, it was the Chambers that did so, and in that case by an absolute majority, therefore with a particularity in the expression of the type of majority. Now, to banally predict that this constitutional law is the subject of specific verification by the Senate of the Republic I do not believe it creates huge problems. If we do not do so, we will in a very short time try to understand how public administrations must contribute to the structural balance and sustainability of public debt. As I think, Mr President (it is likely that I am wrong), we will have this problem in a very short time, it would be useful for us to proceed with a well-defined constitutional structure. I don't see any contraindications. The question of the Senate that deals with the budget of the State - on which I have heard various opinions, all legitimate, for goodness sake - we will discuss it when we get there; it is a whole other story. Here it is only a question, in Article 1 of the bill, where the Senate as a whole is described, of explicitly stating that we are attentive to this aspect. Almost all of us know that the European Union on this issue is a rather dense place with Italy: well, to write something like this means to meet the dialogue with the European Union. That's the way it is. Those who like me know how necessary it was in 2011 to make this speech would want to make only a modest contribution in this regard. [[Applause from Senators Council, Liuzzi and Mauro Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u454	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u455	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u456	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question raised by President Azzollini is only formally and apparently technical. In fact, it is essentially a political issue; not only political, it is a constitutional issue, I would say par excellence, by definition: "No taxation without representation"; from Magna Charta onwards the question of taxation insists and coincides with the question of democracy. I have heard quoted as if it were a technical detail constitutional law n. 1 of 2012: that is called in Italian fiscal compact and it is one of the fundamental issues that we must consider. [[Comments.]] I said it on purpose: "in italian", call it in German, which is perhaps even better. If you vote for the confirmation of the fiscal compact by rejecting a proposed amendment, then it is difficult to go on television to say that flexibility is an objective of the Italian Government being that the Italian Government, having accepted the rigidity, then votes for the refusal of flexibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut, GAL and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Having said that, I believe in other words that the question is not formalistic but fundamental: "Camere" or "Camera" I do not know; if we vote differently here, rejecting the hypothesis of President Azzollini, then we have closed on the question of the freedom and democracy of the budget in the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the LNP Group and the Senators Liuzzi and Messina]] D'ANNA. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. [[Senator Calderoli points out to the President that he wants to speak.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u457	Would you like to intervene now, Senator Calderoli? That helps the discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u458	Mr President, perhaps you can help with the speeches I have heard. We are at this moment in Article 55 of the Constitution, therefore, while considering the relevance of the arguments raised by President Azzollini and Senator Tremonti, with all due respect, whether fiscal compact or not, No. 1 of 2012 is a constitutional law like all the others and we cannot put in Article 55 the list of all the laws of the State that the Senate should verify. If you have the attention to go and see the final norms, where there is coordination, you will find that at the level of each paragraph the reference to two rooms is replaced by that to a single room. With regard to Rule 81, it will be considered with due interest and due attention on the part of this House and the rapporteurs as regards the state budget. In particular (we will talk about this when we arrive at Rule 81) the sixth paragraph is the subject of an amendment by the rapporteurs because the problem that has been raised correctly by President Azzollini and other speakers has been put to the attention of the rapporteurs and translated into an amendment proposal that this Assembly will have to assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u459	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u460	I give the floor to Senator Tremonti to help the debate on this point. Please, Senator Tremonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u461	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, thank you for your attention. I personally find it difficult to agree with what Mr Calderoli has just said. What we're talking about isn't just any law, it's not an occasional passerby, and, I must say, we're not rooms with a view. We are talking about a part of the Constitution, being the constitutional law presupposed by an article of the Constitution: therefore, while going back to remote legal studies I have to say that it is the same thing, that is, we are talking about the Constitution. I therefore do not think that it is easy to decline the assessment of the constitutional law passed in 2012 as if it were entité nègligeable ou considèrable inactive: it is the Constitution of the Republic. Formally it's different, but basically it's the same thing. I'll put it on and tell you in Italian. One thing is the old, glorious article 81, which says: "Don't do public debt anymore" - an account is the German standard (or call it whatever you want), which says: You are obliged to reduce the public debt. If the discussion takes the formalistic turn "Camera", "Camere con vista" or "I don't know what," it already begins by accepting from the Italian Republic the constraint to reduce the public debt, which is the denial of any constitutional principle. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and LAG Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u462	Senator Finocchiaro, do you intervene now or after the senators who have already booked to intervene? FINDING, rapporteur. Later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u463	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u464	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u465	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But don't you intervene on this subject, Senator D'Anna? D'ANNA (GAL). Yes on this subject. I do not have the structure to try with the technical wealth of Senator Tremonti on the subject, but I would like to propose to Minister Boschi, who is the holder of the Dicastery of Reforms, to tell us with equal grace his opinion on the issues raised both by Senator Azzollini and Senator Tremonti and for a very simple reason: because to be beautiful to give interviews to TG1 we are all good. Let us know what you think about this point!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u466	Senator D'Anna, I don't think that's the way to intervene. I asked you if you would comment on the subject; if you, as you said, are not prepared on the subject, you should not test others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u467	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u468	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u469	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, in a different tone, I would like to ask Mr Boschi to intervene, because what Senator Tremonti said is disturbing. I would like to hear from the voice of Mr Boschi what the reassuring answer - which he will surely give us - is about the disturbing issues raised by Senator Tremonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u470	Colleagues, let us be clear: let us now speak with the rapporteurs. Then, since it has been requested, the Minister will, if necessary, ask to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u471	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u472	Quiet! Excuse me, the subject seems worthy of attention, so I ask you to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u473	Senator Monti, please have the floor. MONTI (SPI). Mr President, I have listened very carefully and with great interest to the speeches by President Azzollini, Senator Tremonti and others. Indeed, President Azzollini's remarks seem to me worthy of further study. As has been said in various quarters, this is a very important and delicate matter. It is, of course, possible for individual senators, as for individual citizens, to have different views of substance on the fiscal compact, budgetary discipline and Europe issue, but I am among those who would strongly advise against the fact that, at this time of the evening and in an almost surreptitious way - albeit not voluntarily - it was a light subject of this fundamental importance. It is clear then that every article in the Constitution is constitutional law, but in addition, as we know and as it has rightly been pointed out, there is also a European dimension here. Therefore, Mr President, I would propose that President Azzollini's remarks should be properly examined, that this evening the subject should be left out and that a detailed report be drawn up by the Government and the rapporteurs before we proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u474	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u475	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u476	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, it seems to me that the connection declared by Senator Azzollini between this amendment and the more general subject referred to in Article 81, namely the parliamentary functions in relation to the decision and budgetary balance, can allow the choice of the provision of this amendment to be considered later precisely in relation to the relationship between Parliament and the budget. I believe that the amendment proposed by Senator Azzollini, as we have been told by the rapporteurs and as objectively read in the text produced by the Commission, does not have a quid novi, except the highlighting of that specific law of the State, which is the constitutional law referred to in the fiscal compact, as Senator Tremonti recalls, on balance of budget. However, there is no quid novi, there is no introduction to something that is not already understood in the competence of the Chambers and, therefore, also of the Senate in relation to the implementation of the laws of the State. On the other hand, a very complex theme will be the function of the Senate, once we have finally solved the issue of the non-elective character of its members and the budgetary decision process, which is broadly related to what we are talking about. I should like to remind you from now on that, for example, we believe that the competence of the Senate, as provided for in the same text that the Commission has laid down, should be reduced in that forum, which envisages an enhanced procedure by the House of Deputies if the Senate wishes to change the budget. I believe that the budgetary decision is as close as possible to the expression of confidence in the Government and that, when confidence is expressed only by the Chamber of Deputies, the budgetary decision must be a decision of the Chamber of Deputies alone or perhaps the result of conciliation solutions, in the case of conflict between the two Chambers and therefore also in the State, Regions, Municipalities relationship, but not in the terms of the current enhanced procedure. However, this is a debate that we will be discussing later. Here I repeat the usefulness of the provision, because it is essentially an emphasis on a regulatory framework that already includes all the laws of the State, including the one we are talking about. However, it will be good to discuss this point later in relation to Article 81 and the amendments to it. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u477	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u478	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u479	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to confirm the first request made by the rapporteurs to Mr Azzollini, because it seems to me that, for the reasons they have also mentioned, Amendment No 1.1926 can be withdrawn, in the sense that it poses problems which will be dealt with in a more own way when we talk about Article 81 and therefore about a part of the Constitution placed in a later position. From this point of view, I would ask President Azzollini to withdraw the amendment. If this does not happen, the opinion of the PD is that it must certainly be clarified in the drafting of article 81 - but, indeed, we will talk about it then - if it is the Chambers or the Chamber to deal with article 81, and the sixth paragraph in particular, because this is important and must be done (but I think that the rapporteurs have already announced that they will). In addition to doing so, if the amendment were maintained, we think we are voting against because the substance of the amendment, that is, if the Senate has to deal with the question of the balance of the budget of Article 81, is certainly already resolved by the fact that the ratio of this constitutional change is to overcome the perfect bicameralism, and in particular the policies related to the confidence of the Government, economic policy and budgetary policy are entrusted only to the House. That is why we are calling for the correction of Rule 81 when we get there, and as far as Amendment No 1.1926 is concerned, if it is maintained, we will vote against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u480	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u481	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u482	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I do not want to take away from the request made by President Azzollini; I believe that this amendment says much more than what Azzollini has tried to explain verbally: it speaks of helping to express opinions on the appointments of government competence in the cases provided for by the law, and this I believe must be revised and remodulated. The part that interests the discussion that we are taking forward is what reads as follows: It participates in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of European Union legislation. It evaluates the activities of public administrations, checks the implementation of the laws of the State and of the Constitutional Law 20 April 2012, n. 1, controls and assesses public policies. I believe that this cannot be included in Article 55, in which we are dealing with something else: Article 55 is quite logical, just read it. I therefore recommend to President Azzollini, if he wants to discuss this, to dismiss or withdraw amendment 1.1926 and place it in the part where we will discuss the functions of the Chamber and those of the Senate - because he wants to bring in from the door what came out of the window - that is, if the rapporteurs and the Government, and clearly the Assembly, believe that this competence should also be of the Senate, expected today to be of the House. This is one way around the problem. Senator Azzollini is good at this, as we check when he presides over the 5th Permanent Commission, a quality that he should be given. In this case, however, it is a matter of understanding: if the House agrees that the tasks of Article 81 should be the responsibility of the new Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, then a decision will be taken when we examine the functions; if, on the other hand, the position of the rapporteurs and the Government is that - as I believe that this matter is the exclusive competence of the House - I believe that amendment 1.1926 should retain the opinion that is not the case. Then the House will decide what needs to be done. [[Applause from Senator Lanzillotta]] I therefore believe that Senator Azzollini would do well to reflect above all on the wording of this amendment because it seems to me to be ponderous. If you wish to refer, however, only and exclusively to the scope of Article 81, please state clearly whether your understanding is to give the Senate that competence as well. In conclusion, Mr President, the fact that public administrations must comply with Article 81 is already part of the Constitution and, therefore, should not be clarified. It is a question of whether the new Senate will also have to deal with Article 81 of the Regions or whether the Chamber of Deputies will have to do so, as expected by the trust report. This is an entirely political choice, and if necessary it will be the Assembly, after the opinions of the rapporteur and the Government, that will indicate the way forward. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u483	Before continuing the debate, since many senators have asked to speak, I ask Senator Azzollini whether he intends to withdraw, set aside or reformulate this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u484	Mr President, the problem does not arise because, if Senator Azzollini withdraws it, I will do it myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u485	I'm asking this question so I can understand better. In fact, if Senator Azzollini withdrew this amendment, it would not be necessary to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u486	I would like to make three quick comments. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli, for pointing out to me that for the issue closely related to Article 81 of the Constitution in the transitional rules are actually stated "Senate and Chamber." Therefore, although it is not contained in the text, this clarification is present in the transitional rules: I asked a question and therefore thank them for the answer. This obviously does not solve the problem, because it does not concern the House, but what the Senate does, as I have already said. Secondly, I would like to reassure Senator Bruno, who obviously for a little carelessness did not notice that my amendment is identical to the text proposed by the Commission, except for the word "Valuta" and the addition of the following words: "e of the Constitutional Law 20 April 2012." It's identical: I didn't add anything and I didn't want to say anything more. Just read well what I wrote and everything clears up. Thirdly, there is no point in arguing at this time. Some people tell me that I wanted to say too much and some others tell me that I have specified something superfluous. So, there's time to think about what I wrote. I did not say too much or the superfluous, but I said something very simple: some tell me that there is already and others say that, if you make this addition, who knows what you do! Actually, I don't do either. On the basis of all this, I am happy to accept the proposal of my Parent Company, Senator Sacconi, to put aside amendment 1.1926. Since the rapporteurs have told me that there will be another forum where we will discuss this, - and I address them seriously, with due respect for the Senate, the major experts of the measure under consideration, then it will be possible to assess this issue, limited to those words. I have no difficulty with that. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u487	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u488	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u489	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I would first like to understand what we are doing and whether we are putting this amendment aside. I would have liked to make an explanation of vote, but I find it rather complicated because as the text is, as has already been said, for example by providing for the link between the European Union...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u490	Excuse me, Senator: there is a proposal for the provision of the proposer; we hear the rapporteurs, because it concerns the whole of the fourth paragraph. Since the amendment concerns the replacement of the fourth subparagraph, its provision would include with it all the amendments relating to the fourth subparagraph. I would like to understand from the rapporteurs what they intend to do to avoid having an unnecessary debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u491	Mr President, I would translate the call for withdrawal and provision into a rewording of the amendment referred to in Articles 70 and 81 because the relationship between Parliament and the budget is dealt with in Article 70 and the budget is dealt with in Article 81. I would suggest that we withdraw the amendment, considering that the Presidency can accept its rewording in relation to Articles 70 and 81.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u492	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u493	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u494	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I have said that my request is to put it aside. In view of this procedural problem, I have no problem with one of the operations we are used to doing: putting the number suggested by the rapporteurs on this amendment (otherwise, we vote for it, we reject it, we approve it). We can formulate it as Senator Calderoli thinks, I have no problem moving it from here to insert it somewhere else, provided we know, when we vote, that I want the Senate to evaluate the implementation of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012. How it is done and where it doesn't matter. I do not want to interfere with the continuation of this measure. I agree to reformulate it according to the order you decide, Senator Calderoli. (Senators Ferrara Mario and Divina ask for the word).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u495	Senator Finocchiaro, first let's clarify this, then who wants to intervene... Let's see if we have to vote or not. Divine Senator, Senator Ferrara, you're on your way to talk, but first we have to decide... [[Senator Ferrara Mario out of microphone asks again for the word]] Please, Senator Ferrara. [[Senator Lezzi's protests.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! Mr Lezzi (M5S). President, you have taken the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, we need to calmly understand whether or not the debate needs to go ahead. Senator Ferrara, briefly tell us your thoughts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u496	Of course, Mr President. I did not want to speak because I felt that I wanted to speak on the substance and therefore with a general debate. Instead, I would like to make a contribution to the need to feel... [[Senator Lezzi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u497	Senator Ferrara, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u498	FERRARA Mario (GAL). My contribution, since I had asked for the floor immediately after the intervention of Senator Monti, was to combine my speech with that of Senator Monti... LEZZI (M5S). Can I talk?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u499	Senator Lezzi, just a moment, please. Senator Ferrara is clarifying the content of his speech, and then I ask the rapporteurs for their opinion on the request to move and/or reformulate the amendment, two compatible requests. Senator Lezzi, I immediately gave her the word: she was already talking and I interrupted her not understanding exactly why she wanted to intervene. The subject is also dealt with in relation to the requests made. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u500	As the text of the amendment has been formulated, the new Senate has the legislative function and acts as a link between the European Union, the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic and, among other things, the administrations will be controlled by the administrators. However, given these assumptions, one cannot ignore the constitutional law. I cannot agree with Senator Azzollini because the new Senate is emptied of almost all functions and will go to block all work because the constitutional law says that any law that amounts new or greater burdens must provide the means to cope with it. This means that, in order to monitor Article 81, the new senators will have to abandon the Regions and the Municipalities and stay here every day, in the Commissions, to evaluate every amendment and every bill that passes from the House. There are therefore different functions. I would like to know, at this point, before asking for a provision or withdrawal, before deciding, the view of the Government, in which direction it wants to go. If the Regulations require the presence of the Government in the Chamber, it is because, when there are doubts, there must be the relevant clarifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u501	Senator Lezzi, you're doing a merit intervention, but for now the government has nothing to do with it. We have a problem between an amendment proposer and the draftsmen of the bill. I have asked you not to comment on this, because if, as it seems, the amendment is proposed, relocated and reworded, we will have the debate at the appropriate time. But if we plan to connect with the European Union, how do we... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, I understand. We'll assess him later on. Mr Lezzi (M5S). But that is not the merit! How do we decide whether to set aside, withdraw or accept new formulations if we do not know what the Government intends to do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is the proposer who decides what to do with his amendment. [[Senator Divine tries to draw the President's attention.]] In that case, I will take the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He wasn't picked up. First we have to solve this problem and it is a matter for the proposer and the rapporteurs. When it is clear what we have to do, it will follow the debate on the substance. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm giving the order right now. We must first solve this problem and then evaluate the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u502	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u503	You have the right to do so. What should we do with this amendment? Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, I know what we have to do. But I am assured by the rapporteurs - and if they do, my confidence is complete - that we will review their scope. I am prepared to withdraw this amendment so that we can see it again with a new rewording on which I will be able to say my own and possibly make amendments. If they do not accept the amendment, it creates problems. I therefore withdraw it and allow you to proceed, on the basis of an assurance given to me by the rapporteurs, Senators Calderoli and Finocchiaro, to arrange for a new wording when we deal with the amendments relating to Article 70. If the rapporteur's senators assure me of this, I shall withdraw the amendment and discuss it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Azzollini. You can transform it: that was what the rapporteurs said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u504	[[Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You can't! He's retired, that's enough! MARTELLI (M5S). It's over, that's enough! Mr Azzollini (NCD). Please don't give me any suggestions. I am in the Senate; therefore, I have the capacity to understand and to want that it has not yet been taken away from me. I ask everyone not to vote on it; otherwise it is clear what the instrument is. I am asking for a precise point, and I do not want the amendment to be voted on now to make jokes; otherwise it is clear that I will immediately turn it into an agenda; there would be no problem. I said, on the other hand, I'm gonna drop it. And if I withdraw it, I won't let other people do it their own, otherwise I'll turn it into a agenda. But what is happening is exactly a change in the agenda. In fact, I am calling on the rapporteurs (I really had addressed the Government, but it did not think to give me an answer; it is not a problem, it obviously considers my remarks at no time). The basic point is as follows: it is clear that my agenda is an agenda, an invitation to the rapporteurs to reconsider the matter. Mr President, if it needs to be formalised, I will do so now and so we shall close the matter. But the substance of the problem - and I invite everyone to reflect on these issues, at least as far as I am concerned - is as follows: I withdraw the amendment and, if necessary, turn it into an agenda with an invitation to the rapporteurs to reconsider it with reference to Rule 70. If the rapporteurs give a favourable opinion, we shall revise Amendment No 1.1926 when considering the amendments referred to in Article 70. Do I make myself clear? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the rapporteurs to express their views on the proposal put forward by Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u505	Mr President, I need to clarify the debate that has had very different accents. As it deals with a very sensitive issue, which I and Senator Calderoli had pointed out, both in the report and in the reply, I think it is important for the whole House to know what we are talking about. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] For this to happen, it is necessary first of all to contextualize amendment 1.1926 which Senator Azzollini considered to present to Article 55 of the Constitution, which describes the functions of the Chambers. In describing the functions of the Senate, as it was built in the Commission, the text provides that the Senate of the Republic (...) Evaluate the activities of public administrations, monitor the implementation of state laws, monitor and evaluate public policies, and participate in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation. Would there be reason - as is the case with Senator Azzollini's amendment - to include in the laws whose implementation the Senate also deals with constitutional law No. 1 of 2012? No, for two reasons: in the Constitution one cannot refer to a law in particular. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The second: the heart of the constitutional law referred to is Article 81 of the Constitution, which is not affected by the reform and which, as we know, is a rule against which the constitutionality of the laws of the State is assessed. We must understand: does Senator Azzollini intend to entrust the Senate with a particular task, such as evaluating public administration policies in relation to the precepts of Article 81? This issue could remain fully absorbed, even in the absence of the reference to Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012. Or perhaps Senator Azzollini raises another question, which we have dealt with as to how the Senate interferes in the legislative procedures that concern the approval of the budget laws or even the legal law on the budget? This is another matter, which is more properly dealt with in Article 70 of the Constitution, namely the law that provides for the legislative procedure. As colleagues know, there are various ways of participation or interference of the Senate in the legislative process: there are areas in which legislative competence is equal and in which the Senate can exercise the power of appeal to make observations that the House can overcome even with the simple majority; there is the strengthened procedure for which the House reads, in order to overcome an opinion contrary to the Senate, it must adopt an absolute majority. Finally, in the fifth paragraph of Article 70, a special procedure is provided for the fourth paragraph of Article 81, i.e. for budgetary laws. Why is there a special procedure? On the one hand, of course, it is believed that the budget laws belong to the exquisitely political responsibility of the Government, so much so that they are normally approved with votes of confidence, maximamenti and so on. On the other hand, it is said that the Senate is a liaison body between the State and the Regions. It will also be necessary for its opinion to weigh, because we know how much local finance has in the management of budgetary policies. There is therefore a special enhanced procedure, which requires the Senate to make its observations and, in order to be taken into account, it must adopt them by an absolute majority. And already the House, by an absolute majority, may reject them if they do not accept them or do not fully accept them. A problem has arisen that I believe is what Senator Azzollini refers to, but I want to be sure because I feel the responsibility to find a well-built solution that does not betray anyone's expectations and is in the clarity of everyone. The problem is as follows: in the text which the Commission has hesitated to put forward, this particular procedure is only reinforced for budgetary laws, stability laws, and not also for law and order. The rapporteurs, taking together what emerged in the debate and the amendments tabled by Senator Azzollini, the suggestions from the other groups, want to make a detailed analysis of this because it is a rather sensitive matter. We do not think it appropriate that the Senate should have no say in the law of budgetary law. We will then decide in what type of legislative procedure to place it in, but in the meantime the rapporteurs are considering adopting the same enhanced procedure for the fourth paragraph of Article 81, i.e. for the laws of stability and budget and for the law of law and order. That's the point. I believe that the interpretation of Senator Azzollini's amendment and speeches alludes to this particular care that needs to be taken to ensure that the Senate is responsible for budgetary policies, a bit because it affects it as a liaison body between the State and the Regions and a little because Senator Azzollini believes it is appropriate to do so, in order to give a particular importance to the Senate in this matter. The very issue, therefore, when we should deal with this game in the sense suggested by Senator Azzollini, is Article 70, which we will then examine when we consider the amendments contained in the third table. In this sense, there are two possibilities: if Senator Azzollini still wants to refer to the evaluation function, the opinion of the rapporteurs continues to be contrary and the opinion on the provision is also contrary. If, on the other hand, Senator Azzollini wants to suggest to the rapporteurs (who can become agents of the transmission of this will to the House), the heart of the question, namely how to ensure that the Senate has the possibility of interfering fully, fully, with respect not only to Article 81, fourth paragraph, but also to the sixth paragraph in the forecast contained today in the text, i.e. the procedure reinforced by an absolute majority in the House and an absolute majority in the Senate, is something else or if Senator Azzollini proposes more. There are political groups that propose that everything be rather shifted to the political responsibility of the government, but the place of discussion of this issue is Article 70. In these terms we maintain our opinion against the amendment and its provision, while we are willing to gather the suggestion of Senator Azzollini, knowing that we can talk about the amendments referred to Article 70 of the Constitution, which is not about activities and functions, but about the legislative procedure. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, SCPI and PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u506	Thank you for your clarification, Senator Finocchiaro. Senator Azzollini, I think that renumbering the amendment and shifting its treatment in conjunction with the examination of those referred to in Article 70 of the Constitution is the solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u507	Not only do I agree, as I said before, but I always feel the need to thank President Finocchiaro for the punctuality and competence of his exhibition. This dialogue seems to me absolutely appropriate to the delicacy of the issue, which is what I am looking for, even if we probably disagree with everything, as you can see, but there is no problem. I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for taking this issue precisely in the dimension that I am trying to give to it and I have no difficulty, in the technical way that the President will decide, in relocating it among those referred to in Article 70 of the Constitution, in the light of what I have heard, because - as I said before and as I say more rightly later - I have 100% confidence in the rapporteurs that this issue will be put before us. So do as you wish: let us move this amendment among those referred to in Article 70 of the Constitution and until that point I will try to see together with the rapporteurs whether there is a possibility for them to share, otherwise we will vote and good evening, I would add, given the time!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u508	According to Senator Azzollini's request, amendment 1.1926 will therefore be renumbered, and moved to be dealt with together with the amendments concerning Article 70 of the Constitution, contained in Article 10 of the draft law under consideration, in the text approved by the Commission. This issue is concluded: only interventions on the order of business will now be allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u509	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u510	I'm asking you to talk too, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tremonti, I think we should resume the debate when we deal with Rule 70. Mr President, I would also like to make a comment on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u511	On the order of business you can speak after the Divine Senator, if you don't mind, because you had the floor on this subject. Senator Uras had also asked to speak before the Divine Senator, but he is willing to intervene later. It would appear that we will have to agree on the order in which we are to take action on the order of business. Please, Senator Divine, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u512	Mr President, if you keep quiet, perhaps you will allow me to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u513	If you wish to speak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u514	DIVINE (LN-Aut). If you let us speak in the Italian Parliament, we would like to understand the situation, because not everyone here is as expert on complicated matters as financial matters are. We would like to understand this because we have heard the President of the Budget Commission addressing an issue which, from the point of view of how the debate has developed, does not seem at all second floor. A former Finance Minister - Senator Tremonti, who is standing right here and disturbs me - and a former President-in-Office of the Council have expressed their support for this, calling for the utmost attention so that we do not deal with minor matters. The rapporteurs, very precise people, have the task of coordinating a text in order to get it out as linearly as possible with respect to the lines and addresses. But the text we are talking about has a paternity: it is a text of the Government. It's a debate where you can't even hear the voice of the government... president. Divine Senator, the intervention is on the order of business, please, and I haven't heard anything about the order of business yet. DIVINE (LN-Aut). But we are on the order of business, because we want to understand... president. I'm sorry. You are dealing with a theme that has already been set aside. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We want to understand whether this is a text from the Government, from the rapporteurs or whether it is an orphan text that has no one to defend it. Does the government exist? Does the government know how to defend your measure? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u515	Divine Senator, with this intervention, the government has nothing to do with it. We're in Parliament...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u516	DIVINE (LN-Aut). If you let me finish, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will not let you finish because you have asked for the floor on the order of business and you are talking about something else. DIVINE (LN-Aut). You bring milk to your knees because of the way you run this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I won't allow you to express yourself that way. DIVINE (LN-Aut). You're managing partisanly, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u517	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u518	You have the floor, but that's relevant, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u519	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I think it is relevant because it concerns a debate on the adoption of constitutional rules. Incidentally we went to touch a subject of absolute delicacy. This means that we need to reflect on some issues and also develop a debate, such as that allowed at this stage, so that we can not be mistaken. In fact, the legislative procedure in constitutional matters is not that of a decree-law and we cannot remedy it with the same times as in time - Senator Azzollini often remembers - we remedy mistakes on ordinary laws. That is why I am asking for this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're tired; please finish, Senator Uras. URAS (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing. We have all overcome problems of all kinds... PRESIDENT. The device, please. URAS (Misto-SEL). I would ask that when, in the course of the work, issues of this dimension are raised, we all have the opportunity to have the same attention that has been given to this absolutely important subject, as others of which the debate will be proposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, the subject is referred to Article 70, when the amendment corresponding to Article 10 of the draft law will be renumbered. This is Amendment No 1, 1927.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u520	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u521	Senator Tremonti, we have already decided on the solution to be given to the debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u522	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, and then you see if you can relate to what we have just said. I think so. On the other hand, you said there's kangaroo and shrimp. Let us put it this way: I found it very important, politically central, to speak on the order of business of President Monti, who, in a somewhat procedural and somewhat elegant way, explained to us that the matter is very important but, given the late hour, his discussion must be postponed to a more in-depth forum of discussion. This may be true from a biological point of view, but from a political point of view time is isotropic; that is to say, a quarter of an hour of now is equivalent to a quarter of an hour of tomorrow morning or another morning. I believe that this is not the right way to address a central and fundamental political issue for our country. I really think that, in a way perhaps not directly intentional, President Azzollini has posed the fundamental question: a Senate destined to progressive digression towards a dimension, I do not say ectoplasm but still half Senate, has the power and the duty, as it is written, to verify the implementation of the laws of the State and of the Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, which is integrated with the fiscal compact. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Susta.]] I completely disagree with what has been said by the rapporteur, who says that one account is Article 81 of the Constitution, another the laws of direct and express application of Article 81.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u523	Senator Tremonti, this is the merit and will be deepened in such a way as to be ready for further debate when the time comes. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u524	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, with respect for speaking, you call a marginal issue of merit perhaps the central issue of this whole debate, namely the sovereignty of this country. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u525	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1927, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1928, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1929, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1930, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1931, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1932, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1933, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1934, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1935 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1936, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1937, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1938, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to the amendments, 1,1939, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1,1940, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1,1941, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1942, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1943, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1944, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1945, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1946, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1947, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1948, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1949, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1950, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1,1951.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u526	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u527	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u528	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, these two amendments are extremely important to us, because they relate to one of the issues we have discussed for a long time in the Commission, which of course have not been heard. With reference to Article 55 of the Constitution, not only the elective Senate is eliminated, but the new Senate is removed what is nevertheless a fundamental element for us, which is precisely the parliamentary Chambers, namely the representation of the nation. And look, Mr President, it is not enough simply to say that the new Senate represents the territorial institutions (also because it hypocritically adopted the Dictionary of the Republic after the first Dictionary of the Autonomous States). I believe that explicitly excluding, by a significant act, that the Senate represents the nation and that therefore the senators, even if not elected, no longer represent it, are a vulnus not easily surpassable. It is - I say this with calmness - a matter that concerns the very value of the Senate. Among other things, when we arrive at the functions, even more specifically, we will realize how much the desire to remove, from the majority and the government, the representation of the nation to the Senate will be a serious problem, also in effectively exercising the functions that the Commission has given in addition to the original plan of the Government. For these reasons, I urge the senators to take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u529	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1950, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 1,1951, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u530	Colleagues, the Presidency has received a request for the agenda for tomorrow's sitting to be supplemented by the communications from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I invite the signatories to the request to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u531	Mr President, I believe that in three weeks, since the conflict in Palestine began, it is now the fourth time that we have made a specific request here to the Government for Minister Mogherini to report to the House on the situation in Gaza and Palestine, where we have been living in terror for 23 days. The news is increasingly dramatic every day: today a school has been hit and, as in recent days, children have died today, as well as women and men who were sleeping. We fully share the concerns expressed in recent days by the President-in-Office of the Council about the international situation and the need for the Italian Parliament to take charge of this tragedy; we very much share his concerns, a little less the way in which he expresses them, but we have understood that it is a characteristic of his idiom. We therefore ask Minister Mogherini to come and report tomorrow to the House on what is happening in those territories, also because of the important role that Italy is playing in Europe (and I hope that we do not hear accusations of exploitation here today, because we are talking about too serious a tragedy!): the European Semester began and we believe that a real battle must also be waged on European foreign policy and on the role that Europe must play in the international scenario. That is why this debate cannot be postponed at all. We listened first to your words, Mr President, when you told us that tomorrow there will be a hearing of Minister Mogherini in the Committee on Foreign Affairs here in the Senate, accepting the willingness expressed in this regard by President Casini. However, we believe that the situation is so serious that we could perhaps use the possible pause that we will decide tomorrow to have a real debate in this House, because we are not talking about exploitation, but about war and the Italian Parliament has every right and duty to intervene. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group, M5S and Senators Puppato and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u532	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u533	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u534	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we are opposed to a change in the timetable, while acknowledging, of course, the absolute drama of the situation in Gaza. A few days ago in the Chamber of Deputies there was a statement by Minister Mogherini, who will be present here tomorrow in the Senate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where it is clear that we will talk about the dramatic situation in the Middle East, which obviously includes the very serious crisis in Libya, but also the equally serious crisis in Gaza and the Middle East. I think this is the most serious thing to do. As Mrs Petraglia has rightly said, it is too serious a matter to be used to change our timetable, which provides for an absolutely operational space, because the work in the Commission is the serious one in which we can also make firm commitments for the government. I therefore believe that we must move forward with the planned timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u535	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u536	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u537	CASINI (PI). Mr President, yesterday evening the request was made, then rejected by the House, for a statement by Minister Mogherini on the issue of Libya, which is dramatic for our country. I have agreed with that request, like this one on the situation in Gaza, but I would like to reassure my colleagues that tomorrow, at 1:30 p.m. in the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Mogherini will be reporting on both issues, both on Libya and on the subject of Palestine. So, at least as far as we are concerned, as a parliamentary institution, we have ensured the timeliness, not forgetting that, among other things, Minister Mogherini had already been in the House a few days ago. Without prejudice to the fact that this House is obviously sovereign, I believe that we have fulfilled the task we have been given very seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u538	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u539	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u540	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank President Casini for the fact that it is important for the Commission to move immediately because the international issue is truly crucial. However, I read a tweet from our President-in-Office in which he said - I repeat by heart - not to worry about owls, accounts, reforms, but to worry especially about Libya; the hashtag was '#piccinerie'. So, even if the President-in-Office of the Council has this order of values, so even reform, or at least the opposition to reform, is small with regard to the international situation, it seems to me entirely in line with the wishes of our President-in-Office of the Council that this House devotes not all day but only two hours to international policy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u541	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u542	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u543	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like some clarity. We are concerned about a situation that is transmitted to us by the newspapers, which is transmitted to us by the people we know, and which, unfortunately, are also experiencing directly on their skin situations such as those described a moment ago by Senator Petraglia or even yesterday by Senator Petrocelli. It seems to me, then, to be truly mortifying to liquidate this issue by making it go beyond the present needs of this House; in the sense that if we are not able to manage this situation, namely that of reforms, and at the same time also responsibilities which we are also called to respond to as a Parliament, I believe we are thinking of the sense of reality: we are losing sight of the sense of what is inside and of what is outside. It is certainly welcome that we do not want to disturb the order imposed on us in relation to this reform, but, then, Mr President, I would ask you kindly to put all the senators in a position to attend this meeting with the Minister. You see, Mr President, I am also tired of having to run from one side to the other in order to be able to follow all the work on time and I wish, as a senator, to be able to attend the hearing of Mr Mogherini. I would therefore ask you, please, to include this hearing in the timetable for the proceedings of this House or to interrupt work when Mr Mogherini is present in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u544	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u545	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u546	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, with all due respect, of course, for the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, as I said before, for the availability already established by President Casini, it seems to me that we must return to the centrality of this House, to the centrality of this Senate, which is still the Senate of the Republic and not the Senate of the self-governments, and that therefore the hearing of Minister Mogherini should be held in this House, in the manner that seems most appropriate to the Presidency. Since President Casini already tells us that it will be both of the serious facts that have taken place in Libya and of what has been happening in Palestine for several weeks, given that this is the seat of representation of the Italian people, certainly greater than that, although splendid, of the Foreign Affairs Commission, it would be appropriate to suspend briefly the work of the Assembly in order to enable all the senators to ask questions and listen to what the Government intends to put in place on these two serious international scenarios. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is not conceivable, beyond the quotations and twitters of the President of the Council, that the Government cannot proceed to a very short suspension of the work. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] I can't imagine. Mr President, I believe that you can do everything in your power so that this House can follow the debate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u547	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u548	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u549	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I would like to return briefly to the debate we had at exactly midnight last night. I believe that President Casini has done the best he has been asked for by the various groups and by the Presidency itself. In fact, in the early afternoon of today we were convened tomorrow, as members of the third standing Commission, in the Chamber of the 4th Commission, at 13.30 a.m. So, as the 3rd Commission custom, there will be plenty of seats for all colleagues from other Commissions. With regard to the question of the timetable and the fact of transferring the hearing to the Chamber, I have the impression - if the line can weaken tensions - that we find ourselves bottled in this damned issue of bicameralism. In fact, the House of Deputies preceded us by holding the debate on the Middle East last week. We have planned a debate on Libya with all the Israeli-Palestinian connections to the debate that has already been held in the other branch of Parliament. I think, therefore, that in order not to sacrifice the established timetable, the solution envisaged is the most orderly one. However, the President of the 3rd Commission cannot be asked to give up the stands of this House. CASINI (PI). The hearing will be held in the Chamber of the 4th Commission. Comrade (NCD). I have already said that we are called into the Chamber of the 4th Commission, which has an uninterrupted availability. I can add, if President Casini authorizes me, that a timetable has already been agreed, perhaps a timing, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Every other solution, every other time, is in the full availability of the Presidency, but it goes far beyond our prerogatives as Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u550	As for bicameralism, I do a little notation. The House of Deputies has already held this debate, but since international developments are extremely rapid we will have a more up-to-date information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So, we'll be more up to date in the Senate than the House of Deputies. CASINI (PI). Bravo, President!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u551	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u552	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u553	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I too believe that Mr Mogherini's request to speak to this House is justified. There are very delicate situations which must rightly be discussed within an appropriate assembly. What better assembly of this House can be found to provide public answers on such sensitive issues? I am not just talking about the situation in Gaza and what is happening in Libya, which we should all be concerned about and on which we should be able to express our thoughts; there are also other issues within foreign, international policy, which should be addressed by the one who aspires to take the place of Catherine Ashton at European level, in order to show international public opinion that they possess the qualities necessary to carry out that task. I say this without irony, because I do know the qualities of Minister Mogherini. Without disrespect and, of course, without taking anything away from the Presidency of the 3rd Commission and its members, including myself, as regards the possibility of taking part in the debate in the Commission, in the time and space that other posts leave behind, I think it is more appropriate that we should be able to compare it for a couple of hours in this House than for an hour and a half in 3rd Commission. The great themes are discussed with an open face, on the satellite channel, making themselves seen by everyone; they are discussed above all with a comparison that can allow everyone to manifest their thoughts. I am sure that tomorrow, if we were to decide to hold this two-hour session of the Senate in the plenary, there would be a strong participation of colleagues on such sensitive issues. In fact, to show that we are sensitive to what is happening at our borders means to understand the tragedy that is taking place within our borders, because everything is linked and connected. We cannot enter on certain topics in an analytical way, but we are all able to read the links, the threads linking internal issues with foreign policy issues. And we also know very well the repercussions that our citizens have on their lives on certain aspects that sometimes endanger their personal security. There are so many issues that relate to so many different cases that should be put directly to the Minister in order to be able to listen to answers in a frank way, as the Minister is used to do and as we actually expect on issues and issues - as I have already said - that, it is true, they belong to discussions that affect not only our country, but they still see Italy at this moment also protagonist for the role it plays at European level. A fundamental role that must advise us all to carry out our task with the greatest openness in terms of forms of communication. Therefore, I say what better form of communication we can give our citizens than that of an internal debate in this House, of a debate that can actually make the most of it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] also the work that we carry out within it. A job that rewards us with regard to the results that we sometimes manage to bring home, but that above all will have to reward the Minister in seeing himself perhaps also recognized of the merits as it is right that it happens when there are... I see, Mr President, that there are other Members who want to speak, so I will not use all the time I have available. However - I repeat - without wishing to insist in a demagogic way but wanting to be very concrete, it is better to confront ourselves for two hours in this House rather than for an hour and a half or two hours in the Commission. Time is the same, but it is better to do so publicly, within the assembly that deserve such delicate issues. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u554	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u555	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u556	Barani (GAL). Mr President, unlike Mr Stucchi, I am a little concerned when this House speaks and begins to talk about Libya. In fact, the last time we did so, in the last legislature, we authorized the intervention of the F35 (together, of course, with Sarkozy who was waiting for nothing else) and we did an intervention that led badly to Libya and did not bring good to Italy, place that there was no longer that prevention that was done on the coasts for the boardings that arrived in Italy. So we were the cause of the evil of Libya and Italy. Therefore, I am also a little concerned because nobody hides it - we cannot hide it - our Foreign Minister, although obviously very prepared, does not have the international experience that would be needed at this time. Speaking of what Mrs Petraglia said about Palestine and the Gaza Strip, I would also add Israel, because Israel is also at a difficult time: rockets are constantly and systematically arriving at it. Palestine and Abu Mazen cannot be compared with Hamas. Hamas are terrorists who make human shields with school children. We can't afford that. So, even if I think it's an important issue, since Libya has already brought us bad in the last century, the less we talk about it the better. We leave the speeches to international diplomacy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u557	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u558	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u559	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am not speaking on the request made, but on a relevant subject. In the Copasir Bureau we were denied the hearing of Minister Mogherini, requested for tomorrow, because the Minister was absent for international commitments. The President of the Copasir is in the Chamber and can confirm that. Since we are here, I would like to understand why, at the request of the Commission of President Casini, the Minister could be here instead. I raise the issue, since the government is present. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u560	At this time, it does not seem to me to be a fundamental issue. I put to the vote the request, made by Senator Petraglia, to include a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Palestine, and in particular in Gaza, on the timetable for tomorrow's work, Thursday 31 July. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u561	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u562	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u563	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, in order to adjust to the work of the next few days, our Group would need to know the time left and, always with great respect, we would like to know the time remaining for the other Groups. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tomorrow we'll see the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u564	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u565	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u566	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since the House has rightly devoted an hour and a half to Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012, and there have also been two speeches on this subject, I would like to point out that Article 5 (4) says: The Chambers, in accordance with the rules laid down in their respective regulations, exercise the function of control over public finances with particular reference to the balance between revenue and expenditure and to the quality and effectiveness of public administration expenditure. Since the bill does not change the word "Rooms" but "Rooms" the control activity is also at the head of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u567	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u568	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u569	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to the request made earlier by Senator Lepri on the request I had already made to you. I would ask you, please, to have the Offices check how much time has been spent on the Rules of Procedure and the order of business. We will ask that every senator's prerogative be respected to speak on a point of order, regardless of the timing. The point of order is a reference to compliance with the rules and the legitimacy of the work. If this is not allowed, it means that tomorrow, when we have run out of time, we will not even be able to intervene to demand compliance with the rules. The rules cannot be quoted; if we do this, it means that tomorrow we can do what we want and we cannot talk. I am not talking about the explanations of vote, but about the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, therefore, to make a check, because those interventions must be extrapolated from the calculation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u570	Tomorrow we'll deal with this. It's too late now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u571	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-295.ana.u572	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, July 31, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.55 p.m.
