ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1164, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u9	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to talk about the TAV Torino-Lione, so not about the problems of Italy or the Italians, but about your problems, the problems of your parties, the problems of financing your parties, the illicit financing of the parties and perhaps also the financing of corrupt officials and politicians. This is a certainty, because there is no other logical explanation that justifies this huge, gigantic waste of public resources. I call this work a disgrace, even an infamy, if we consider that in order to finance it precious resources are being taken away from the vital ganglia of our country, such as health, school and employment. Moreover, as my fellow Members remind me, it is the second gift that we make in a few days to the underworld organized after the intervention of the Chamber of Deputies on the measure amending Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We know that the fantastic European corridor that should pass through Italy simply does not exist. Slovenia has already given up, as has Portugal. Spain does not intend to proceed on schedule. Even France has derailed the work, calling it a non-priority. According to the Swiss Federal Transport Office, Val di Susa would only transit 10% of the potentially manageable freight traffic from the line we already have. In summary, the Italian Government thinks of building the most expensive and useless work of the recent history of our country, in the presence of a semi-desert railway line, already existing; of a real collapse of the traffic goods between Italy and France; of a firm opposition of the local population and not, and against the most authoritative experts of the Italian universities, agree in considering the Turin-Lion devastating for the environment, dangerous for the health and lethal for the coffers of the State. The only thing clear is that, as often happens in our country, it is not the usefulness of the work to represent the reasons for a political choice, but the amount of the work connected with it. That is what the Court of Auditors thinks, which has opened a dossier on the costs of Turin-Lyon. In fact, it must be checked whether the expenditure for the additional section of 33 kilometres on French territory, to which Italy, inexplicably, will contribute 57 percent. However, the explanation seems obvious: it would be unacceptable for France to carry out this useless work, unless Italy, including the French side, pays for it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u11	Madam President, I would like to begin this speech against this useless work with my own personal consideration. We can reason together, but I don't remember, by heart, a project that has had so much criticism of every aspect. This is yet another record collected by the Torino-Lion High Speed line: on every aspect of the project it is possible to make criticisms. Let's start from the substantial point, which is the economic one: a debt for about 30 billion euros, for a work that requires, for the Italian part alone, 20 million cubic meters of extracted rocks, 7 million cubic meters of cement, a million tons of steel, without any utility for the transport of goods and modal transfer. One million cubic meters is equivalent to the volume of each of the Twin Towers of New York: 400 meters high on a base of 50 meters by 50. This is the work only from the material point of view, but we could criticize the type of project, the basic usefulness, the cost, the enormous number of criticisms received and the false predictions about the development and usefulness of this project. The new Turin-Lion railway line is an exemplary case of this type of work, because it has no data to justify it, it has effects that are even counterproductive and it is heavily harmful both for the direct effects on the environment and for the enormous waste of resources that are taken away from the railways and the needs of the citizens. Finally, it is useless, since the present tunnel is absolutely modern and has no practical constraints. Spending on useless works harms the nation's entire economy. Companies emigrate to foreign countries that have transport structures far inferior to ours, because Italy with these wastes is deprived of the resources to revive the employment and to restore competitiveness to the enterprises through the technological innovation and the decrease of the tax burden. As a result, the billions of euros that are stolen penalize the Italian economy. I close with my personal observation, making a few kilometers further to the right. Last October I took part in the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Vajont disaster. What has left us with this experience? Vajont is still a very lively example of what Italian politics is. That experience made us understand that the current Italian politics with this work is using the same logic as in the 1960s. That work, still alive, tells us that your shortsighted policy is still firm at those years, and that's why we say "No TAV". [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u13	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 January 2001 the Agreement between Italy and France for the construction of a new Turin-Lyon railway line, ratified by the French Parliament, and by the Italian one under Law No 228 of 27 September 2002, was concluded in Turin. On the basis of the Agreement, the following preparatory activities were initiated and continued, such as the creation of the LTF company for the carrying out of studies and preliminary work of the Italian-French common part, as well as those related to the preparation and implementation of the related projects. On 30 January 2012 a further Agreement between the Italian and French Governments was signed in Rome to supplement the aforementioned act of 2001, which aims in particular to regulate the construction and future management of the cross-border section of the Italian-French common part of the work. The same also contains the rules on the constitution and operation of the public promoter who will then be the manager of the cross-border section for the common Italian-French part. The realization of the Turin-Lion railway line has the aim to facilitate the movement of people and the transport of goods through the alpine arch, in a perspective of sustainable development aimed at favoring the most respectful modes of transport of the environment. From this point of view, the exploitation of the potential represented from the railway modality becomes essential. The rail link under consideration is located in the strategic section of the Mediterranean corridor of the trans-European network, constituting a portion of the priority project Lyon-Trieste-Budapest-Ukraine border, at the centre of the axes of communication between the North and the South of Europe. The project aims to achieve a significant reduction in travel times for passenger traffic and to provide an effective and environmentally sustainable response to the significant increase in demand for freight in the Alps. The realization of the plan involves benefits in terms of half the times of journey for the passengers (from Turin to Chambéry it goes from 152 to 73 minutes), of increment of the ability of the transport goods (ranged from 1050 to approximately 2050 tons and length until 750 meters per train, with operating costs almost halved), of reduction of the number of transports on rubber in the delicate alpine environment (about 600.000 per year), of transformation of the existing line in underground valley to service of the residents, of annual reduction of emission of greenhouse gases (at regime 3 million equivalent tons of carbon dioxide, correspondent to the CO2 of a city of approximately 300.000 inhabitants), of creation of new places of work (more than 1.000 people directly engaged in the realization of the new line, with a ratio of 1 to 3 of indirect employed). From the above we can see many of the benefits deriving from the realization of the railway line Turin-Lion, that it will bring content to the current program and that they are within the within of the Government. Not to approve the bill and not to authorize the ratification and execution of the Agreement would have negative consequences not only in terms of economic losses, linked to the costs incurred so far, but also in terms of a loss of credibility of our Country, linked to the failure to fulfil a commitment undertaken at international level. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u14	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u15	Madam President, the subject of the TAV is complex and can be dealt with by many different angles. In any case, it is necessary to understand whether environmental, energy and social costs are acceptable to the benefits, and also to understand who enjoys the benefits compared to those who pay the costs. Who is the recipient of these benefits? The benefits should be equally shared by all stakeholders in order to meet their individual and social needs. An unfair distribution of benefits or the imposition of unsolicited benefits plan and, in reality, force societies towards a different lifestyle, thus influencing traditions, cultures and economies. Benefits at what cost? Who pays the bill? What voices is it composed of? Each type of development generates material, energy and environmental burdens. These charges are direct and indirect, as they concern not only the local level, where construction activities are carried out, but also the areas where resources are extracted and processed. It should be stressed that attention must not be focused on speed itself, but rather on effectiveness, i.e. on the suitability of the instrument for achieving the objective, without losing sight of the need to preserve environmental and social integrity. What is needed is a mode of transport that meets the needs, not a mode of transport that creates new needs in order to increase a specific sector to the detriment of other social and economic sectors: not the TAV. It is hardly the case to note that the success of the TAV on the director Rome-Milano has created considerable problems to the air traffic, in particular to the Alitalia company, that in the same years they have tried to save from the bankruptcy and that today is object of bitter controversies. It makes little sense to support competing instruments on the same small user line without predicting their sustainability on the basis of real demand. It makes little sense to support the TAV. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u16	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u17	Madam President, I will cut to the chase. I would first like to ask the representative of the Government to clarify paragraph 10.2 (b) (ii) of Article 10 of the Agreement under consideration. That Article, in point (a), states: In accordance with common law, the law applicable to the working and employment conditions of staff on the cross-border section is the territorially applicable law. But then, in the following letter, there is an exception to this rule, according to which: The performance of contracts relating to the installation of the equipment of the work is governed by French law before it is put into service. It is not clear why French law is to be applied instead of Italian law in relation to working and employment conditions. I ask you: would the French Government, on reverse condition, have allowed this? It would be important to clear the field of any kind of misunderstanding or doubt as to the real scope of this rule, in order to identify precisely also during the times which part of the work falls within the aforementioned exception, given that the protection and protection of Italian workers is at stake. I think it is important to make a strong point of assessing the risk of organised crime being infiltrated in the case of subcontracting of parts of the work, and we wonder whether French law offers adequate guarantees in this respect. I would also like to mention the EUR 20 billion that will be spent on the implementation of the TAV Torino-Lion. There are numerous studies on how useless this great work is, its economic and ecological insustainability. In view of certain scientific data, governments and political parties that support the useless work continue to hide behind the words "strategic work." What a strategy! Now the TAV is an old project, conceived more than twenty years ago, that no longer responds to the forecasts, wrong, of those who had imagined a high speed line for the transport of the goods, and today there are not even those. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What could be done with 20 billion? We at SEL proposed it in the draft law that we have already deposited. The draft law aims to contribute to the solution of the problem of unemployment, indicating the State as an employer of last resort, through the creation of a national experimental programme of public interventions. We believe that this is the only way to create real jobs for millions of unemployed people, because even if the picture changed and there was an economic boom, it would take no less than fifteen years to bring employment back to levels that could be considered physiological and we would still not be able to return to the previous levels. We therefore call for a productive model with at the centre the dignity, the protection of human health and the environment, through the recovery of ecosystems and the conservation of those not yet devastated. All state administrations (regions, autonomous provinces and local authorities) can operate interventions in the areas of protection of the territory, to prevent and counter the hydrogeological failure of the country; to reclaim and requalify from an environmental point of view all areas of the national territory; to recover, restructure, adapt, put in safety and enhance school buildings, hospitals, public kindergartens and the public real estate to be allocated to the first home; to increase energy efficiency and reduce consumption for public offices; to recover and enhance the historical and architectural heritage; to recover public land uncultivated or abandoned and to save from pollution rivers, swamp areas, beaches and coasts. We have calculated that it takes 29 billion to create one and a half million jobs in three years. But it's easy if you want to. Twenty billion and more come from the TAV Torino-Lione, the nine million missing can be recovered, for example, from the cutting of another great waste, of a disaster: I refer to the F35. Resources that need to be reallocated to develop a peace economy and therefore for the purposes that we have indicated. It can be done. Our citizens deserve it. Other than talk from Jobs Act, which will only produce other discrimination and nothing else. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u18	Senator Moronese, I invite you to lower the paper you've exposed. I know it's just a piece of paper, but since what you see is the writing "No TAV," please lower it. The Presidency called it back a first time, and you know the Rules as well as I do. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like this House to stop telling Italian citizens big, dirigible bullshit. This work is so indefensible that you have not signed up to speak because you know very well that, from the technical-numeric point of view, there is nothing to justify it! Nothing. So, let's get her through the schnapps. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll quickly quote you a few numbers. They're not projection-based numbers. They are facts and, as such, are not dismountable. Firstly, the EU has never told us to make a high-speed line "Turin-Lyon" (which is actually a little longer: 250 km). He never said that! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The second point is that the TEN-T (Trans-European Network Transport) project plans to build a link that crosses northern Italy, from west to east, but does not expect it to pass through the Turin-Lyon line. We're the ones who asked for that route. We could ask to put the Frejus, to put the historical line, and that would be the TEN-T project. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The TEN-T project requires uniform signs of safety systems. Nothing more. It doesn't talk about the speed of travel. Who needs this line? Lyon-Turin Ferroviaire, which is the public Italian-French company that wants to build it, is the first to say that this line will not bring benefits except to a small handful of travellers. Textual words. Twelve trains a day on a line capacity of 300. And they say it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There will be no shift from rubber to rail: the proposer says so, no one else says so. They did the math. This line will never stand. This line will cost 700 million a year. To make it go in balance they will have to pass 350 trains: freight trains, long from one and a half kilometers to two kilometers, alternated every five minutes to passenger trains. Freight trains will have to go at a speed between 100 and 120 kilometers per hour and passenger trains at 220 kilometers per hour. Of course, since there is no freight car that goes more than 120 kilometers per hour. It doesn't exist and it's not planned. So there is no high-speed rail transport, and there will never be! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In Europe, vehicles circulating on rubber (assuming that the international standard is that a transport truck is worth two cars) make 3000 billion kilometers. Freight transport on rails is 30 billion kilometers - 1% of that on rubber. If we double every European railway line we would double 60 billion kilometres, or 2%. Tell me, then, how do you, with an extra 250 kilometers, have a shift from rubber to rail? Remember that the proposer said: there is no economic benefit, there is no benefit for passengers, there is no benefit for goods. There's nothing! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u20	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u21	Madam President, I do not want to continue to list numbers that my colleague Mr Martelli has so intelligently and effectively proposed, but I just want to ask the House and the Italians questions. Why do we do useless public works in Italy? Why in Italy do we forget to have territories where the transport infrastructures are absolutely forgotten and we prefer others whose realization is decidedly pletoric, not to say useless? I come from a territory, Calabria, where to go by train from Crotone to Reggio Calabria (the route is about 150 kilometers) it takes quietly more than four hours. Let us think, for example, of financing the very low-speed train, and perhaps other areas will also be subject to attention. I would like to point out the real reason why this work will take place, citing my colleague Barrozzino (I apologise to him), who said: "I am going to the point." But here we - you excuse me - must go to the money (Senator Morra shows a model train composed of three wagons), because this is a locomotor: in the first car there is written "TAV"; in the second there is written "Mafia", because we do all this by way of derogation... [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u22	Please, Senator Morra.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u23	MORRA (M5S). ...and inside the third wagon there is money, and maybe money is the reason why so many, but really many, hope that the state will continue to be the crib for their business. Thank you, and I hope you will finish your public management experience as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u24	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u25	Madam President, traffic forecasts are important for a large transport infrastructure. Yet, it emerges that the designers of Turin-Lion have never used the most reliable forecast surveys to understand the actual load of transalpine mobility, namely the Alpinfo international statistics, drawn up each year by the Swiss Federal Department of Transport. The Alpinfo statistics represent a real reference: they compare the flows of goods of the 17 most important passes of the Alpine arch and describe the trend of transit by road and rail through the Alps. What do I mean by all this? Every single design point in Turin-Lion ignores the accredited statistics and is based on conjectures at the limit of imagination, on a model that takes into account only very particular conditions and that does not contemplate the actual evolution of road and rail traffic. From 2000 to today the traffic goods highway to the Italian-French Alpine passes of Frejus and Mont Blanc has collapsed of 30 percent: a constant decrease that lies who still tells the stories of the increasing volumes of transit future for the territories concerned. Then the questions are: why do we realize a fetish of lawlessness, the result of perverse malavitous infiltrations? Why force this already gangstered country to face yet another unnecessary, damaging and counterproductive expenditure? Why do you insist on staying deaf in front of the echo of the citizens of Val di Susa? You know this: this project is just a big bluff - you will never admit it, rather continue to persevere - where real data is distorted by the hunger for profit of unscrupulous entrepreneurs, by the mafia, by complacent parties. Everyone wants a slice of cake and you don't care if the impact on the environment will be devastating due to asbestos, uranium and hydrogeological risks. You only think about your profits: only your profits and not those of the citizens. This high-speed train will speed up travel only organised crime, while honest citizens will remain on foot and with broken soles. The resources employed to realize the TAV will once again crumble our national economy. You're selling us piece by piece, and you can't go on in this mess. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The resources are always the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u26	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u27	WOMAN (M5S). I'm gonna finish with one last concept. This is yet another italian shame, which can be avoided. I ask you to desist. In the name of the Italian people, stop, do not continue with this disaster. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u28	Finish the sentence. That's the second call.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u29	WOMAN (M5S). Do not continue to use the money of Italians, which can be used for other less expensive projects. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u30	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to many speeches on the TAV and I have also read all the acts of the House. I did not want to look at what one party or another said, which clearly have very fixed and different positions within the various sides. But I, who, on the other hand, feel like an independent senator and I am from Liguria, must say that in all the parties I have found great truth and, reading, I have found extremely interesting topics, which leave enormous doubts about the work whose implementation is planned with the ratification that we are about to approve at this moment. Being Ligurian, what interests me most is linked - I must tell the truth - also to what Senator Morra said before. I make it a priority problem: I am not opposed to the TAV, on the contrary. Italy is dividing in two speeds: the speed of the areas that go with the fast train (there are cities that are reborn, like Turin, Florence, Rome, thanks to all the connections that there are) and the speed of the areas that, instead, are cut off from Italy, like Liguria. Liguria is a land that lives on tourism and on the port; it is the land that is now cut off from the infrastructures; it is a land that is dying, that has the highest unemployment rate, both absolute, and youthful, of all the center-north of Italy and that has the worst GDP. It should be absolutely included in the benefits foreseen for the Mezzogiorno, because it has the same numbers of the Mezzogiorno, with a region that costs, per capita, even more than Calabria and Campania. How do we lift up Liguria? How can tourists reach Liguria if they can't get there? [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] Think that a flight to Genoa costs 400 euros; at the same time, to go from Ventimiglia to Genoa it takes two hours and from Genoa to Rome five and a half hours. It would be enough an average speed and it would be enough that Tuscany did not oppose to pass the train from Florence (they want, instead, to pass the Tyrrhenian side). We could arrive in Rome in three hours and a quarter, without making the high speed: it would already be a success for our Region. I hear today talking about quadrupling a line, when we have a unique track connecting Italy and France on our coast. Everyone knows that today, for one reason: because a train has been derailed; but since July I have been talking to Minister Lupi about this problem. It has been since 1940 that the Italy-France line has to be doubled. The natural corridor that was to be done in Europe was the one that left Rotterdam, arrived in Genoa and went on to Marseilles. Now, with Torino-Lione, the possibility of being part of Italy has been snatched at Liguria. We're out of Italy and nobody does anything. Of course, there is a very serious inability of our politicians. I wish we had people like Senator Esposito! This is one of the reasons why I am sorry if I am going to vote against the ratification of Turin-Lion, because I am clearly close to him for everything he has suffered. What is happening on Torino-Lione is a very serious fact, which has perhaps worsened the situation and which today we would find ourselves, instead, on the Milan-Genoa line. In this regard I would like to invite everyone, even the 5 Star Movement, to understand that it is the salvation of a Region. We must understand that the Turin-Milano line, which has been done for forty years, is necessary to save a Region, and it is something different from Turin-Lion. I'm begging you all to understand that. I am convinced that, as I have heard many truths from the 5 Star Movement, they too will understand that the economic future of a Region is played here. It is fundamental to arrive to Genoa, because the corridor between Rotterdam and the port of Genoa is closed, the connection with the Ocean and the Mediterranean. From there would suffice an average speed, the doubling of Genoa-Ventimiglia, that then arrives to Marseilles. With the French we have already talked about the possibility of making an average speed at 200 kilometers per hour, which would connect Marseille to Genoa, and from there continue towards Livorno, Florence, Rome. At least we would connect with an intermodal system, which precisely Lupi says is fundamental to the future of our country's GDP. We are not talking about Liguria in terms of local public transport, but about the need to connect the first port of Italy, and to connect Italy with France, towards Ventimiglia. This is the situation on which I call everyone to think, and that is why I will not vote for a quadruple that will be seen much later. As many have said, this line may be useful in 2040. Let's think first of the priorities of the country, the real ones, and then, if anything, we'll think of Turin-Lion. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u32	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u33	Madam President, Senators and Senators, the project concerning the creation of a new international railway line between Turin and Lyon, aimed at freight and passenger transport, which would complement the historical line between the two cities, constitutes a part of Priority Project 6 (Lyon, Trieste, Budapest and the Ukrainian border) of the trans-European rail network, part of the TEN-T trans-European transport networks. Over the course of time the project has undergone many transformations, but one of the points remained unchanged is the construction of this new tunnel of 57 kilometers double barrel, that is with two tunnels to simple track between the Valley of Susa in Italy and France. Between Turin and Lyon there is a traditional double-track rail connection and there is a second simple-track route. Overall, the infrastructure management is divided between the Italian Railway Network (RFI), which manages the railway network in the Italian section and the Réseau ferré de France (RFF), a French railway company, in the French part. These lines were built between the fifties and seventies of the nineteenth century, but in successive epochs they were the subject of various modernizations and reconstructions, also with partial mutations of the paths. As for the Italian route, a series of modernizations were implemented in various phases from 1967 to 1984, doubling the tracks and reducing the slope in some sections; in connection with these works was implemented also the restructuring of the Turin node, realizing the freight port of Orbassano, in place of the previous Lingotto-Smistamento; then the last modernizations of the historical line of the Frejus began in 2003 and ended between 2007 and 2011. In the 2010 total of the goods transported along the historical line has been of 3,9 million tons. The traffic has suffered a clear decrease from the end of the nineties, after a period of light increase in the 20 years precedence. The decrease in traffic began before the tunnel was adapted to the current European standards of transport, but was aggravated during the same, which between 2003 and 2007 resulted in the passage into the Frejus tunnel on a single alternate direction track with the limitation of regional trains to Bardonecchia and the movement of night trains to Paris along the Sempione. The project envisages the adoption of a greater gauge than that typical of the other European railways and similar to that of the Channel Tunnels; the possibility of transit will therefore be limited to two extremes of the line (Turin and Lyon) and no later than, as these trains called "high-profile highways" would be too high, wide and heavy to pass through the rest of the existing and planned European rail network. It should be recalled and specified that these characteristics are not foreseen in the European Union either for the TEN-T corridors or for Turin-Lyon, but are the result of exclusive choices of Italy and France. In any case, no line in Italy or France is equipped for similar shapes. On the other hand, there are some comments that must be taken into account. In 2013, ARPA detected a value of arsenic above the limits in the earth and in the excavation rocks and this had also generated a death of fish in a puddle of the Clarea stream, 40 meters downstream of the yard. There are, moreover, good reasons to say no: the current line is not obsolete, but in any case it is, by admission of all, very underused, in how much it can transport, according to the same Italian Railway Network, up to 20 million tons of goods, while today they are only 3,9 million. In addition, it has just been modernized, extending the container limit gauge up to the standards in use. Pendance and average characteristics of the existing line are similar to other railway lines to Switzerland and Austria whose traffic is, nevertheless, growing. Conversely, freight traffic to France has decreased or remained stable over the last 15-20 years. In this respect, I share the considerations of Senator Rossi, who preceded me. Much more would be the railway intervention on the Tyrrhenian side that connects France with Italy and, therefore, Liguria, Tuscany and Lazio, that instead in recent years has been and continues to be abandoned in place of plans of construction of abnormous private paid highways. We must take note of this. In conclusion, not wanting to repeat the right considerations that many Members and colleagues have made during yesterday's afternoon sitting and today's morning, I appeal to the sense of responsibility of the whole Senate Assembly and Parliament. Important studies have been carried out, not only of the ARPA, but also of the Polytechnic of Turin, in times not suspect, that must invite us to a reflection. These studies - which I ask them to be acquired - are based on considerations which cannot be suspected of being biased. AGIP itself carried out studies and confirmed the presence of uranium in those locations, which was not sufficient for commercial exploitation. It is, therefore, quite different from saying that this substance is not present and is not dangerous. Thus, the presence of uranium and also asbestos appears. We know that, when excavations are carried out, terrible emissions are produced for the health of workers and workers. As far as transport is concerned, with regard to the heavy presence of these substances, we risk creating a situation that is absolutely out of control. As you know, historically there was an evil called mountain sickness. Today, thanks to scientific studies, we know that that popular definition translates into lung cancer. Well (unfortunately very bad), we are proceeding too lightly, among other things with a legal and institutional system that is absolutely subalternous and scandalous, which - as Senator Barozzino has made clear - refers to the rules concerning workers and the French legal approach. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini, please finish your speech. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). This, therefore, puts us in a state of incredible and disturbing subalternity. Then, let each one question himself. We buy the acts that - I repeat - are not biased, because they are of the Politecnico di Torino, they are investigations of the ARPA that detect absolutely worrying values; they are even studies of private companies that show only that there is not a sufficient quantity of uranium for the marketing, but do not deny a presence of such substances above the permitted levels. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u34	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprentico paritario - Annibale Maria di Francia - in Rome, to whom we welcome the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who listen to us from home, the technical and regulatory analysis of the Agreement reads - I would ask you to reflect - in point 4 of Part III: The regulatory intervention does not imply implicit repealing effects of existing provisions. And point 5 reads: There are no provisions of the regulatory act having retroactive effect or reviviscence of previously repealed or authentic interpretation or derogation from existing legislation, or open delegations on the same subject matter. Section 6 of the regulatory impact analysis states: The measure is not liable to distort the functioning of the market in competitiveness between the recipients of the effects of the Agreement. Yet, as we will see, all three statements are false and misleading, because, by providing for the current text that for the award and execution of contracts related to the realization of the work the public promoter applies the French laws, the Italian anti-mafia legislation is effectively repealed and rendered inoperative, which, in turn, produces an insanable contrast to the mandatory legislation and of internal public order, despite works and contracts would take place partially or entirely on national ground or with public funding in part national. The false assurances given in the technical report are shown below. As regards point 4, it is stated that regulatory intervention does not have implied repealing effects of existing provisions. On the contrary, the lack of anti-mafia legislation implies the implicit repeal of all Italian national legislation launched in order to suppress the phenomenon of organised and mafia crime for part of contracts and works to be carried out in Italian territory. As regards point 5, it has been stated that there are no provisions of the regulatory act having retroactive effect, or of revision of previously repealed rules or of authentic interpretation or derogation from existing legislation, or of open delegations on the same subject. On the contrary, the lack of Italian anti-mafia legislation implies derogation from the same law in that it does not operate where it is inevitable and imperative that it do so, that is in Italian territory. As regards section 6, finally...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u37	I invite you to conclude, Senator Paglini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u38	Mr Paglini (M5S). As regards Section 6, it has been stated that the measure is not liable to distort the functioning of the market and the competitiveness of the recipients of the effects of the Agreement. On the contrary, the measure distorts the market and false competitiveness because it creates a system for awarding contracts to be carried out also in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u40	Madam President, the high-speed train that so many new horizons and unusual views will open up to the sight of Italian and French citizens, of all European citizens, with considerable benefits on the process of European integration, marking new vitality in the economy, in tourism and in knowledge, arrives at the station. It arrives paradoxically with considerable delay, Madam President, held back by the great contradictions that the country is experiencing, that European society is suffering. In particular, for the Italian social body, the train of the facilitation of the connections between two important nations of the Old Continent is loaded with clashes, unprecedented violence, easy demagogies, but also authoritative studies of feasibility, of weighted projects, of eco-sustainable actions. Senators and senators, today we mark the green light for history by giving Parliament the function of the station leader who raises the green palette, and it does so with the legal certainty of a social justice operator in the act of exercising the right he is invested in because he is legitimated to represent the general interest of the people. The dawn of the third millennium is marked by dark shades, by remarkable chiaroscuri. We would like the second decade of the new century to be characterized by the new push to progress by recovering this term, strangely relegated in recent years to the distrust of rhetoric. They watched the progress of entire generations of Italians when they infrastructured the country by shortening it, making it accessible from the North to the South. We must recover, therefore, that dispersed feeling, that innovative will of reasoned faith in progress, which in fact translates into development, in growth, being the transports a strategic section in the policies of mobility between the people and for the goods. The TAV between Turin and Lyon will be this and many good news again. In asserting firmly the priority and hierarchy of this important and mastodontic work, I allow myself, from the south, to solicit the gaze and action of the Government for the unsatisfactory state in which the trains move in the Mezzogiorno, including...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u41	Please conclude, Senator Liuzzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u42	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). President, I'm finishing. Including - I said - the High capacity on the Bari-Naples route, including the improvement of links between the northern and southern regions. I am talking about the high speed on the Adriatic ridge, a work that is stirring up enthusiasm and founded hopes in the citizens of Apulia, Lucani and Calabria. Without prejudice to all measures to protect the environment, the landscape, air quality, workers' safety... Please conclude. Finish the sentence, because it has already passed its time. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). ...of the safety of the yards, of the respect for the populations concerned, we are in favour of the ratification of the Italian-French Agreement, with the invitation to continue a sound policy of listening, of the planning, of the involvement of the parties in question... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish, please. In case you can deliver your written speech. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm finishing. AIROLA (M5S). He's taken the word off us! LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). ...and do the same for the other regions... president. It's the same for everyone. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). ...the appeal to do the same for the other Regions... [[Senator Razzi's applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u43	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u44	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u45	Madam President, today's draft law concerns the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the French Republic for the implementation and operation of a new Turin-Lyon railway line, signed in Rome on 30 January 2012. The text, already approved by the House of Deputies, consists of five articles necessary to ratify this Agreement. The Agreement defines the general framework for the implementation of the rail link project between Turin and Lyon, as well as the subsequent management of the Italian-French cross-border section. I would like to point out that the Agreement does not in itself allow the construction of the link to be started; a further Additional Protocol between Italy and France will be necessary. I therefore do not understand the ostracism of the 5 Star and SEL Movement, nor the presentation of a total of 1,116 amendments and agendas; a blind and unproductive obstructionism. It is certainly true that the work is also criticized by a part of the populations concerned, but with many of them, especially those who reject violent manifestations, the conversation has been held constantly and agreements have been reached that convince us to support the process of this measure. The final project differs substantially from the original one, since many of the observations made by the local people and their representatives at institutional level have been accepted. The Agreement does not result in any new or increased burden on public finance. The costs will be incurred only at the time of signature of the Protocol and will be provided for in the draft law ratifying the Protocol. It should be noted that the Turin-Lion high-speed line is part of the Lisbon-Kiev Corridor 5, one of the ten most important transport links in the European Union, both for passengers and freight. I stress that the work can provide Italy with significant economic and employment benefits, and allows a strong reduction in pollution related to road transport. The technical data shows that this is an important infrastructure for our country: 33 kilometers in France, 57 kilometers of tunnels, 3 kilometers open in Susa and 19,5 kilometers between Susa and Chiusa S. Michele. The total cost is about 23 billion, half of which is borne by Italy. The potential traffic in 2035, year in which the inauguration is previewed, will be pairs to 25,5 million tons; this traffic will lighten also the tunnel of the Frejus, that otherwise would reach 39.9 million tons per year against the current 15,5. And again, 17 million passengers by car and 4.5 million passengers by rail make understand the strategicity of the work. The benefits are obvious, considering that it is expected that in the yards will be occupied 1,850 people direct annual and 5,800 people will be occupied in the induced. The number of persons employed under the scheme will be 280 per year and 140 per person employed under the scheme. France has already ratified the Agreement and the opposition is certainly a small minority, having also understood the French part what the strategic interest of the infrastructure is. That is to say that we are in favour of the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between Italy and France. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Stefano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u46	Madam President, the Treaty we are about to ratify has already had the green light of the House of Deputies. Today there have been speeches by colleagues who have legitimately told a story, but it is not the story underlying this treaty, and I would like to use the few minutes at my disposal to try to report to the House and to those who listen to us some objective elements, knowing that other issues have arisen on the implementation of this work, which have nothing to do with the technical, economic and relations with Europe that are at the root of this debate. The argument that this would be a useless piece of work, conceived twenty years ago and no longer at present tends to forget some elements deriving from the European Commission's initiative, which in recent months has reiterated what was presented only two years ago. I am referring to the ten dorsals identified as strategic for the European Union, which serve to connect the metropolitan capitals with the ports, removing physical barriers (and in Europe the Alps and the Pyrenees are physical barriers), to produce what many consider to be one of the central points of the European and environmental strategy, i.e. a modal balance that transfers substantial shares of freight and passenger traffic from rubber to rail. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u47	Senator Martelli, please! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). We are talking about an intervention that Europe finances, and not only in Italy, since Turin-Lion is one of the strategic works with a co-financing of 40%, and we are talking about a European initiative that includes 17,500 kilometres of high-speed and high-capacity rail that should be operational by 2030.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u48	Senator Martelli, if you have placed along the table a piece of cloth bearing the inscription "No TAV" to be photographed from above - I only ask - you know that this is not really appropriate. [[Senator Santangelo's comments. Senator Santangelo lifts a piece of cloth with the inscription "No TAV" from the counter.]] Please, Senator Santangelo, you know how it works in this House! [[Comments from the M5S Group]] And while another senator is talking, we also know the level! Excuse me, Senator Esposito. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Don't worry, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I am concerned about everyone's respect in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u49	What is happening in this House is a constant one when we try to hold a debate that brings elements and does not tell tales. [[Ironic applause from the M5S.]] CASTALDI (M5S). Good Esposito! You look good in PD! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). When it comes to data, official documents, choices that take place not only in the Italian Parliament, but also in the European Parliament, it is difficult to listen. Therefore, we are talking about the Mediterranean corridor, which will connect us to other nations and allow this country to be part of the great project to reduce CO2 production, with consequent benefits for the environment. Around this singular story, a figure can no longer be changed: we have an opposition to the realization of high-capacity trains - because we are talking about this - that is for freight transport, which unfortunately does not correspond to an equally strong movement, of course always democratic and peaceful, in order to prevent the doubling of a motorway tunnel in the same Valley and in the same mountain. We work to move transport from rubber to iron, while others fight iron. We are the only country in Europe with this kind of approach and this type of opposition. A few days ago, just with my colleague Scibona, we were on a mission on behalf of the 8th Commission in Switzerland, a country that has realized, is realizing and will realize by 2019 three tunnels, for a total investment of 15 billion euros. One is already in operation (Lötschberg), another will be active in a couple of years (Gotthard), and the third will be ready in 2019 (Cinders). Why does Switzerland make them? To minimize the passage of trucks on their territory. Thus, thanks to the railroad and to competitive base tunnels without great slopes, which would make them uneconomic, as in the case of the old tunnel of Fréjus, it shifts transport from rubber to iron. I keep hearing about the historical line. I don't know what Cavour would think, which is the one who thought and realized that tunnel! In Europe all tunnels built between 1850 and 1900 are being abandoned with the construction of base tunnels. We are doing exactly what the rest of Europe does. Switzerland does not have the contributions of the European Union, and this work has been self-financed. However, once he arrived at the border with our territory, that is with Lombardy, he had a problem, and so he even made available, as has been confirmed by the Minister of Transport, as much as 120 million euros in order to be able to realize the piece of connection between the two countries. I have lived this initiative, I say it to the Deputy Minister who is present here, as a humiliation: the Swiss give us 120 million euros lost in order to make us realize what we, as a country, should achieve with our own programming... ENDRIZZI (M5S). That's it! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). ... having made it clear that Europe's future passes through iron, because this is the most environmentally compatible choice. And the opposition to iron in this country continues to be support for rubber. I want to tell Senator Rossi, too, with all due serenity. Senator Rossi, it is not a question of opposing Torino-Lion to the Third Pass. It is not a question of opposing the Third Pass to Napoli-Bari. Nor is it a matter - and I tell you with affection and sympathy, we are also Members of the Commission - of trying to caress the fur from the protest about the comb's verse, because those who oppose Turin-Lyon will also be against the Third Pass, and his attempt to convince them, by voting against the Treaty to have a more open attitude on the Third Pass will bring them great disappointments. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] That's all I wish you, of course. So it's not a battle between one region and the other of the country. It's a system battle this country has to do. It is a battle that must see all the elements protected. I hear mafia infiltrations. I don't remember which colleague showed us the train, but how... ENDRIZZI (M5S). The hole gang! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt. Let the co-worker speak. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). ...can one continue to root for a work to be infiltrated? I want to say this in this House, Madam President. The Turin-Lione is today the great Italian infrastructure that has more controls, with a structure realized ad hoc, that verify not only the companies that participate in the contracts and win them, but that controls them upstream, verifying also the subcontractings. I would like to tell you an episode to make clear what are often the limits that this country has in the decision-making chain. The Interforce Group treats high speed (Gitav), which is the structure built ad hoc to carry out these checks, a few months ago identified and reported a company on which was burdened a hypothesis of non transparency with respect to its connivance with organized crime. The Gitav reported this company and LTF punctually excluded this company on the basis of this indication. We are in a rule of law and this company has used the TAR, which has readmitted it. I don't want to go into the matter, but I say that the work and the structure that we created did their part. We are in a rule of law and the TAR has readmitted it. Do you know what happened curiously to this company, which I do not intend to blame or absolve, because I respect the decisions of the courts? A few days after the decision of the TAR, which granted her the right to return to work in the yard, this company was the subject of an incendiary attack, claimed by anarchist groups, which basically destroyed 300,000 euros of its equipment. With this system, as a country, we're not going anywhere. I would simply like us to have all the discussions, such as those we are doing in this House, and we also had different opinions, but we would stop not telling the truth. The truth is only one: this is a line on which there are many opinions, but we have to consider objective data, because the studies that we talk about have never seen them, Senator Cervellini. They don't exist. There are individual representatives and individual teachers of this or that university who have written their own opinions. However, there is not - and I challenge anyone to prove otherwise - a study by any university, less than ever by the Politecnico di Torino, which should mark it with its own signature, which has declared the things told by Senator Cervellini. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Rizzotti.]] Then we talk about costs; I hear about EUR 20, 25, 28 billion. But let us try to talk about what we have approved in the House of Deputies and the Senate in the state budget, because otherwise we will tell another story. The total cost of the international trade amounts to 8.2 billion; 65% of these resources are borne by France and European co-financing. Therefore, by subtracting the Italian State, the international trade Turin-Lion costs 2.8 billion euros in 12 years, for a little more than 200 million euros per year. Let's at least tell the truth. When I asked the reasons for continuing to talk about 20 and 28 billion, I was told that the additional costs will be added. I don't have the crystal ball, but I have a great ambition, which I hope everyone has, including those who are against it. I would like to make this work the Italian example that makes us forget what is always used as a negative example when we talk about the great works in Italy. I would like the Turin-Lyon line to be a positive example that could undermine the negative example of Salerno-Reggio Calabria. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Davico.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u50	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u51	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u52	Madam President, I believe that the debate that has taken place has been extremely rich, has given way to all opinions and that my further comment would not add much to what has been said. I therefore believe that, as a result of the debate, the recommendation to approve this International Agreement, and the law implementing it, retains its truth. I therefore insist on what I had initially requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u53	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a very brief reply, and I will try to ensure that it is a timely reply on some issues that have perhaps been dealt with with with an excessive incidence of political arguments compared to technical data. However, I should like to make three points which I should like to make very briefly. The first: Italy is a poor country of infrastructure. The Italian infrastructure network, very weak and fragile, is one of the reasons why our growth is fragile, especially in lasting periods such as this, and it is one of the reasons that keep us away from the links between goods and people between northern Europe and the Mediterranean basin, which we should instead guard with greater attention and definitely with greater pervicacy. The second condition is that a choice is made here, one of many. It concerns the western side, but if we look at the eastern side, we should also put in interventions on the Brenner and others. This is not the subject of discussion today; but, in the face of works that have this importance, it is appropriate to include them within a strategic framework that looks at Italy as a whole and not only to a part or to some Italian Regions. The choice, as has been pointed out last, is linked to the strengthening of iron and therefore to an obvious reason that concerns what I would call greater public health. I add in the margin a consideration. Torino-Lione, as well as other works begun or begun, should warn us. There are very few Italian regions, probably my own region and perhaps another region - and I would like to point out - which use the theme of public participation and public debate, what is called the public débats in France, to address the issue of major infrastructure works. Not only do I not exclude that this could be a new front for dialogue with citizens who are having to discuss major infrastructure projects that intervene on their territory, but I would add that this border must be experienced as soon as possible and discussed by the Government and Parliament. At a time when we make a choice that is oriented in that direction - and in the annex to the DEF is absolutely foreseen an infrastructural network of intervention on the great Italian nodes, with a capacity that was previously lacking - the question of the involvement of citizens in a direct way through the instrument of débat public becomes something concretely necessary. AIROLA (M5S). Go to the police and talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't interrupt. Please, Senator Airola, we all listen. Please, Mr. Deputy Minister. AIROLA (M5S). That's bullshit we've been hearing for 20 years! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop. Go ahead, Mr. Deputy Minister. Mr Nencini, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I try, Madam President. I do this by listening to both you and me to proceed, and... AIROLA (M5S). Listen to the citizens of Val Susa! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'll call you back. It's his first call. Mr Nencini, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Let me turn to the last point, although I would like to stress at least four points which the intervention brings to a positive conclusion. The first concerns the halving of journey times for passengers on the route. The second concerns the increase of the capacity in the transport goods that this infrastructural intervention allows us. The third, never sufficiently emphasized... (Senator Santangelo shows a smartphone with the inscription "NO TAV").
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u55	Senator Santangelo, please behave correctly, you don't have to do this. You know there's a rule. Put it down, please. Consider this also a call, Senator Santangelo. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u56	I was saying that the third point concerns the reduction of the number of lorries on the road, in a very delicate environment such as the Alpine one. The last concerns the annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which have been recorded - these yes - by university centres of excellence. I should like to add, in conclusion, Madam President, that some suggestions can be taken from today's debate. I would point out one that the Government is willing to discuss and that it can be accepted in the final part of the debate, and therefore in the instruments that the Senate House will want and will decide to adopt on its own. But that we have to work, and it is a commitment that the Government takes, for the revision of the Convention, as established at the bilateral summit of the end of last year, is made absolutely concrete, and it is up to the Senate to decide which instrument to use in order to include it at the end of parliamentary work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u57	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments to it, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u60	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u61	As no one asks to speak, I shall put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Petrocelli. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u62	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the content of the G1.2 agenda, which we wanted to include in this debate, which is aimed at defending the historic Turin-Cuneo-Ventimiglia-Nizza railway line and finds its reasons in Article 24 of the Agreement today at the debate in this House. The article intervenes on the modification of the 1951 Convention on intermodal stations of Modane and Ventimiglia and the railway sections between these and the frontiers of Italy and France. We find inspiration also in the general principles contained in Annex 3 (Promotion of modal transfer for the Italian-French passages), where Italy and France undertake to favor the modal transfer of the transport from the road to the railway, in order to preserve the environment in the Alpine region. We do not want to forget then the inconveniences linked to the recent landslides and accidents caused by atmospheric events that took place in Liguria on the Genoa-Ventimiglia line where the presence of the single track is high and precisely these moments of discomfort have evidenced the fragility of the railway connection between the Ligurian-Piedmontese quadrant and the South-East of France. This agenda is aimed at safeguarding this historical line from an architectural and engineering point of view, but also useful for interregional and international connections that today need many things, summarized in three points: the finding of 20 million euros for maintenance, as well as from the old Convention (and yesterday Minister Lupi gave us reassurance on this matter); the start, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the necessary work for the renewal of the Italian-France Convention (as also confirmed by the acts of the bilateral agreement of 20 November last with the then Prime Minister Letta); the authorization of a proposal of the Piedmont Region to use trains currently destined for the connection with Liguria.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u63	Madam President, the G1.5 agenda is for the Ramat tunnel. I fully agree with the fact that freight transport must be moved from rubber to iron but, contrary to what Senator Esposito said, there has always been a firm opposition, even as regards the doubling of the Frejus motorway tunnel, so much so that the works currently being carried out are all on the French side because there are no yards on the Italian side. Having said that, the subject of agenda G1.5 is related to the Ramat tunnel of the A-32 motorway in operation, which for almost three years now has a closed lane to allow access to the yard. Beyond the goodness or not of the highway, it must be considered that the toll is still paid by the users in a total way. Therefore, considering, moreover, also the risks to safety, having a stable system that closes one of the two lanes in the tunnel and downhill, with means of construction that have a reduced speed in order to allow the entrance to the yard, is certainly a situation of total danger, that must be healed as soon as possible. In addition to this, if, as has often been said, we go to push the mountain area of the Val di Susa, then it is not the protesters No-TAV that block the influx of tourists to the upper valley but precisely these situations. The fact that on the weekend there are downhill queues on the highway does not come from the No-TAV events, which may be one every six months, but from the fact that every day there is a closed lane. This is the subject of the G1.5 agenda, because on this point we should take care as soon as possible to restore the dual carriageway in the motorway section A 32 and, specifically, in the tunnel Ramat. On the G1.6 agenda, on the other hand, we are talking about CUP. The CUP is the acronym for a single project code. It is like the tax code of a great work, and is used precisely to be able to determine, specify and trace all payments related to that great work. Well, it is curious to know that this CUP was wrong from the start, and it took more than two years to correct it. Now, indeed, it is correct, but in the two years since the beginning of the works and invoices at the time when the right one was then defined, there have been payments. These payments have not been drawn and, without taking away anything from the judicial activities, it would be appropriate for us to continue the investigation and go and trace these transactions in order to ensure that there have been no crossroads into which this money has ended. Therefore, with this agenda we would absolutely like to carry out, by all means available, a timely verification of the financial flows generated by the wrong CUP and then send, as a matter of urgency, a special report to the relevant Commissions, together with the documentation examined. On the other hand, as regards the agenda G1.7 and the following - on the issue of CIPE several agendas have been presented - I would like to point out that, with the resolution of CIPE No 86 of 18 November 2010, the final draft of the exploratory tunnel of the Maddalena di Chiomonte was approved, a work considered preparatory to the design of the new Turin-Lyon link. The aforementioned final draft had been drawn up having as a technical reference the executive project of the Venaus exploratory tunnel, in fact abandoned in 2005. As we read in the aforementioned resolution, there was no preliminary draft of the exploratory tunnel of the Maddalena di Chiomonte. To date there is no executive project, or at least it is not usable and visionable, despite the various announcements of its existence. The executive project taken as a reference for the definitive project of the exploratory tunnel of the Maddalena di Chiomonte had a very different object for the location of the entrance: Venaus is about 4 kilometers away from Chiomonte. Regarding the altitude, Venaus has a entrance at 566 meters above sea level and Chiomonte to 671. With regard to the orographic and water catchment area: these are two distinct valleys. As for the length, the Venaus tunnel is about 7,000 meters long, while the Maddalena tunnel is about 7,600 meters long. The indications from the base tunnel are different, because for the most part the Venaus tunnel project was parallel to the survey area, while that of Chiomonte takes almost 5 kilometers before arriving in the geognostic survey area. So, we can well understand that the issue is different. The aforementioned prescriptions and recommendations accordingly (129 and 3), provided as a condition for the effectiveness of the resolution itself, which is subject to the approval of the project, proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure, were to be (Article 1, point 3, of the aforementioned decision of CIPE) necessarily transposed into the executive plan of the new work, but this is not the case. How then can we have good design and execution if not even the requirements of the CIPE, which should be absolutely competent body and should be mandatory to follow its prescriptions? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the decisions of CIPE, in the absence of the uniform executive project, which would have had to transpose the requirements as an integral part of the resolution itself, have not yet been effective executive, therefore, do not constitute any authorization to the opening of the yard and to the realization of the works, put in place, therefore, in violation of all the urban and landscape tools. In addition, Venaus' final project is a theoretical act of public utility, but, in the absence of the executive project to which the aforementioned resolution is suspended, any intervention and/or processing or accident on the territory of Chiomonte appears to be unlawful. That is why we ask that the work in Chiomonte be stopped. On the agenda, Mr G1.13 we are talking about EIA. Also in this case CIPE will have approved, with resolution n. 86 of 2010, the definitive plan of the geognostic tunnel, and we have already said this. On 11 April 2013, the company LTF (Lyon Turin Ferroviaire), in charge of the design of the international route of the new Turin-Lyon line, deposited its final draft for the purpose of the approval by CIPE, according to the dictates of the law n. 443 of 2001, the famous objective law. This approval procedure is still under way and its conclusion has been announced, with a favourable outcome, by the end of 2013. We're a little ahead of you. So, if we think that the project presented on April 11, 2013, although referring to the international part...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u64	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u65	SCIBONA (M5S). But I'm illustrating four orders of the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u66	Yes, but you have to finish, because we gave you exactly the time we agreed. Times are contingent and you still have three seconds. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u67	Here too, we call for the environmental impact assessment (EIA) to be rebuilt because it does not conform to the current work. The EIA, in fact, had been made and studied with regard to the works of Venaus and not those of Chiomonte. Environmental impact assessment is a fundamental study, which must be fully consistent with the project being carried out. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u68	I remind the groups that the times are contingent. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 1.3, 1.4, 1.7, 1.8, 1.10, 1.11, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.12, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.16, 3.32, 3.38, 3.39, 3.40, 3.47, 3.49 and 3.51, as they do not have any real modifi cation. It also states that amendments 1.6, 1.9, 2.6, 3.41, 3.53 and 4.2 are inadmissible under the same regulatory provision, since they are out of regulatory scope. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u69	Madam President, the opinion is against all the amendments. I am in favour of the G1.1 and G1.2 agendas. On the agenda G1.3 I give a favourable opinion if reworded by replacing the words "in-depth evaluation" with the words "in-depth monitoring" with "in-depth monitoring" with "in-depth monitoring" in the operative part, otherwise the opinion is negative. The opinion was in favour of the G1.4 agenda. Finally, I am against the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u70	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1, which is identical to Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u74	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would only ask you for the courtesy of being able to wait a moment for the list of amendments declared inadmissible to be delivered before proceeding with the vote. I had already asked the Presidency for a few minutes and it has not yet arrived. We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u75	In the meantime, in order to speed up the time, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. It seems to me that you have received what you have requested. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.3 and 1.4 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u78	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, always with the utmost cooperation I asked you to wait. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I saw that the list had been distributed. PETROCELLI (M5S). We got it, but it gave us about 47 thousandths of a second to watch it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u79	I'm gonna suspend the session for a minute. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. The sitting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 11.11 a.m.]] Let's resume our work. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.6 to 1.11 are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u82	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like your help with the possibility of speeding up the work. In particular, I would like to ask whether it is possible to say from now on that we are going to ask that all the amendments declared inadmissible be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u83	It is not possible under the Rules of Procedure. PETROCELLI (M5S). Could you please tell me in accordance with which Rule of the Rules of Procedure it is not possible to put them to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Article 100 (8). We shall now proceed to the agenda. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.1 and G1.2 will not be put to the vote. The G1.3 agenda would have taken a favourable view if the proposed rewording were accepted. Senator Scibona, are you welcome?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u84	Yes, Madam President. I would also like to point out that I missed the opinion on the G1.4 agenda and that I was wrong to vote on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u85	We take note of that. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1.3 (text 2) and G1.4 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.5 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G1.5 agenda presented by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u88	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would not like to argue, but at least to have a more cooperative attitude on the part of the Presidency in defining the real inadmissibility of the amendments we were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u89	I beg your pardon, it is not possible to cooperate on this, because the Presidency's assessment is unappellable, so it is not cooperation in this case. Senator Petrocelli, I cannot give you the floor on this subject. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.6 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of agenda G1.6 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1.7 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u92	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, on a point of order and on a point of order. I insist on clarification from the Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We already gave it... SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Madam President. Allow me to express my perplexity, and then you will also be able to answer... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know you have two minutes. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, if you interrupt me, I will remain silent and you will continue. Or you let me do my surgery... [[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Falanga]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u93	Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. I had only informed you, to allow you to be absolutely efficient, that you have two minutes of time. It was just a communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u94	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, patience is over. I am intervening on the order of business: let me do it! [[Protests from PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u95	You know there's quota. Please, Senator Santangelo, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a speech on the order of business, asking for the attention of this House. Article 100, paragraph 8, states: 'The President may, by unappellable decision, decide - and here we are - 'the inadmissibility of amendments without any real modificative scope and may also - and I invite you to comply with this point - 'dispose that the amendments intended to make corrections of mere form are discussed and voted on in the coordination...'. Therefore, I invite you to indicate, with respect to all those you have pointed out, what may have some formal correction. I believe that, of all the amendments you have mentioned, there are at least five or six which can be readmitted. So, kindly, if there's even a need to stop, and not for a minute -- because I remind you that we didn't come here to make fun of anyone -- but at least for five minutes... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please pay attention to the language. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let me finish! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't yell, you don't have to. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you talk to me on top, I'll yell at you. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Falanga.]] Let me finish, as my right is! I am telling you, Madam President, with a view to cooperation, that, if it is necessary and if it is appropriate, we can suspend the work for five minutes and I come as President of the M5S Group to the Presidency table and tell you what the five-six amendments can be recovered.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u97	I would remind you, Senator Santangelo, that the Presidency's assessment is unappellable and concerns paragraph 1 of Article 1, of which we considered that there was no element that could lead to the debate. So the Presidency has exactly applied the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to point out to you, in terms of cooperation, that we could also decide not to wait until the list of inadmissible amendments was distributed, but instead we felt that we should do so. There is also a mutual assessment of the timing. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.8 agenda. [[Comments by Senator Santangelo Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]] I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G1.8 agenda presented by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1.9 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.10, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.11, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.12, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda for the second reading (Doc. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of agenda G1.13, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.14 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of agenda G1.14, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.15 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.15, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u98	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u99	My opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u100	I put to the vote amendment 2.1, identical to amendment 2.2...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u103	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to announce to you that we will always ask for the electronic vote and we will not accept the games of the raise of hands: you did these last year! [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] So, always electronic vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u104	As you know, you have to ask. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You don't have to. Please, there is no need on the part of anyone in this House to behave in this way. I raised my eyes and no one asked for the floor to ask for the electronic vote. It was only necessary to be faster to ask. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1, which is identical to Amendment 2.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.3 to 2.10 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.12 to 2.16 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Nominal vote by simultaneous vote RESIDENT. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u105	Colleagues, I address a greeting to the students and students of the Technical Institute of Commerce "Alessandro Casagrande and Federico Cesi" in Terni. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u107	Madam President, with Amendment No 3.37 you simply ask for the appointment of the Italian-French public promoter to be required for the opinion of the parliamentary committees. Approval is necessary, and not only communication, information. This is a fundamental request in my view to ensure that Parliament is able to monitor this work, that we know how important it is to someone and harmful to someone else, as we have already said these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u108	Amendment 3.52 is of absolute common sense. It is expected that the Director-General and the Administrative and Financial Director of the Public Promoter will be appointed after communication to the relevant parliamentary committees, and we propose to add: "To the State-Regions Conference and the Technical Observatory of Turin-Lyon." As you can see, this would be an increase in the number of people to whom the communication is to be given and who must be consulted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u109	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 3.46 and 3.48. We have said a lot about this work, so there is no need to reiterate its usefulness. However, when we have to appoint an administrative director and a financial director, who are the key figures around which this work revolves, and we read in paragraph 1 of Article 3 (after communication to the competent parliamentary committees), it means that the Government chooses and the Commissions take note. It does not take much intelligence to understand the common sense and the logic of amendment 3.48, so we invite you to vote on it; we ask that the opinion of the Commissions be heard, that the opinion is therefore important for the expression of the Government, and with amendment 3.46 we ask that we also hear the State-Regions Conference and the Turin-Lyon Technical Observatory, because those are also two fundamental bodies. Therefore, it is not particularly complex: it is really a matter of common sense, and we invite you to vote on the amendments, to give a signal that Parliament has a bearing on this matter, otherwise it will have no weight. We do not need a particular science and intelligence: anyone can vote for them, even you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u110	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u111	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u112	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u113	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u114	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u116	Senator Santangelo, do you ask for an electronic vote? SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, let me ask you this, because I raise my hand... I gave her the floor. SANTANGELO (M5S). I call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. As you find it most convenient, or on this article, then on the individual article, or on the whole measure: if you prefer that I rise from time to time to ask for the mode of electronic voting, for my part there will be no problem. So, how do you find more comfortable?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u117	I usually do it on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, thank you. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u120	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not know whether I can ask, on the order of business, why the Deputy Minister, being a senator, decided not to take part in the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u121	He is free to express himself and choose. Thank you for your observation. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, up to the words "is" appointed. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 3.2 and amendments 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, up to the words "is" appointed. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.7 and Amendment 3.8 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the words 'is appointed'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.9 and amendments 3.10 to 3.26 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3,27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, up to the words "is" appointed. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.27 and amendments 3.28, 3.29, 3.30 and 3.31 are therefore excluded. Amendment 3.32 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.33, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.34, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the words 'Technico Torino-Lione'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.34 and Amendments 3.35 and 3.36 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.37, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.38, 3.39, 3.40 and 3.41 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.42. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.42, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.42 and Amendments 3.43 and 3.44 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.45. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.45, tabled by Senator Scibona and other Senators, until the words "are" are appointed. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.45 and Amendment 3.46 are therefore excluded. Amendment 3.47 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.48. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3,48, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.49 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.50. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.50, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.51 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.52. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.52, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.53 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. 11:33 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u122	Madam President, I note that with Amendment 4.2, as with a number of other amendments, part of this Senate calls for the relevant parliamentary committees to be involved in the whole process of implementing the Agreement in title. I therefore appeal to the rapporteur and the Government: I understand that this ratification is not to be brought back to the House and that it is to be completed here with the approval of the Senate; but I ask whether it is not possible in any way, with an agenda or otherwise, to take into account that a substantial part of this Assembly, acting as an interpreter of concrete needs arising from the territory, asks that this Senate - or what will remain of it, or the House, or whatever will be - may be involved in a genuine participation in the process of carrying out this work, exercising a form of control. It is a work that creates a conflict, and it does not seem healthy to me to cut a House out of control and the expression of an opinion, even for a relationship between representation in Parliament and the territory in which this work affects. Although we understand that the amendments also fall for procedural reasons linked to the ratification of this Agreement, with this amendment we are asking whether it is not possible for this request, which is repeated in many other amendments, to be accepted, in order to obtain - truly and seriously - the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u123	Madam President, as I explained yesterday about the preliminary ruling, Amendment 4.1029 aims to have a greater observation and precision on the subject of public works in order to prevent all possible infiltrations of organised crime. Basically it is asked that there be a more precise verification of any non-compliance by public and private entities. In our view, given the things we said yesterday, this is a very important issue, because there is a clear risk of infiltration by the underworld and organised crime into procurement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u124	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u125	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u126	Madam President, I wanted to reply first to Mr Mussini, who asked to be accepted, as a sign of dialogue, at least one agenda. But the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion on the only agenda presented by Senator Mussini, as well as on other agendas, including the 5 Star Movement, so it seems to me that this signal has been given and that there has not been a preconceived closing attitude towards his reasons and the so wide-ranging debate that has taken place. For the rest, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u127	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u130	CASTALDI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. I would like to point out that this request, which has no obstructive purpose, has three reasons. In the meantime, because it is right that the Rules of Procedure should also be applied in order to do things right, and not just the others. Then, because it's not fair for the absent ones to take the money anyway, as it has been for 20 years. Finally, because it is appropriate for the citizens to control the parliamentarians and therefore look at the bright board so as to see the expression of the vote of each senator, which in the last twenty years, when the citizens were not there, has not happened. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u131	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Castaldi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u134	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I note that the measure we are debating is a draft law of government initiative, which was presented by the then Foreign Minister Bonino and which is among the various signatories of three Ministers of the present Government. I believe that this is a very important measure, in which I note that the opinions of the rapporteur and the opinions of the Government are consistent. I do not want the Vice-Minister, but just now Senator Carraro had raised a problem, noting that there was no participation in the vote by the Vice-Minister, in support of the opinion given on the individual amendments. Since it is an attitude that continues, I cannot understand whether this is a political step away from the Government, of which the Deputy Minister is also a member. I would not know otherwise how to define this attitude, because I imagine that on the part of those who have the responsibility to deliver an opinion on an amendment, it does not matter whether it is acceptable or not, at political level it must necessarily follow a conclusive course of action such as the vote. Since I cannot honestly understand the reason for this lack of participation, as far as I am concerned - and I hope that my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group, in their autonomy, if necessary, can follow me - from now on I will follow the voting attitude of the representatives of the Government. In fact, if they do not intend, through their vote, to support a bill that they have submitted, I really cannot understand the reason why I, an opposition parliamentarians, should continue to vote on a bill that has been presented by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u137	Mr Nencini, Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Madam President, Senator Palma, thinking wrong is a sin and you are wrong. My view is that you are wrong, because I find it difficult to support or disagree with amendments tabled by taking a public position, and then have a different opinion by voting. I am waiting for the final vote to express my opinion on the measure, but if this is to appear disdainful to the House, I will immediately begin to do so, at least I will show you that you are really in the wrong. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u138	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 4.1 is impervious. Amendment 4.2 is inadmissible. Amendment 4.3 is also impervious, because it is conditioned by the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on a rewording that has not been transposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.6 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, until the following words are followed. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 4.7 and amendments 4.8 and 4.9 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u141	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to remind all of us why public works are being done. They are done in order to have a purpose and therefore, in this case, there is a time of return of the investment compatible with the life of a public work. We do a work for a return from an exquisitely economic point of view. What are we asking for with this amendment? We ask that the payback, that is, the return time of the investment, be contained over twenty years: it does not seem like a short payback. It is not a private investment, of course: it is a public work and has a long payback. But if the return time of the investment exceeds twenty years, what is the point of doing public work? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This applies to all public works, including ports: if a public work has an economic sense, we do it. I speak from an exquisitely economic point of view, which is something you like to listen to; very well, if a public work does not have a time of return of the investment sufficiently contained, it does not need to do so. I therefore hope that at least this will be an understandable language and that you will vote in favour of Amendment 4.12. [[Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u142	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.16 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 SANTANGELO (M5S). Young man, you don't put the ball in the hole! [[Senator Cardiello's comments.]] Senator Santangelo! CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Come on, come and take it off! Come on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cardiello, will you stay calm, please? CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). I'm not doing anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, so stay calm; if you're not doing anything, be calm. It will be the task of the Presidency to recall Senator Santangelo; it is not a regulation between you and Senator Santangelo. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.25 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 4.25 (correct text), tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, up to the word "subject". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remainder of Amendment 4.26 and subsequent amendments until 4.1025 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4,1026. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of amendment 4,1026, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, until the words "on condition that they do not." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. The remainder of amendment 4.1026 and amendments 4.1027, 4.1028, 4.1029, 4.1030 and 4.1031 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.1032.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u145	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to... [[Senator Sibilia's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u146	We are proceeding to the vote. If you keep quiet, maybe we can get to the end. Please, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u147	CIOFFI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, I wanted to add my signature to this last amendment, on 4.1032, and congratulate you on how good you were at blowing up 1,000 amendments with one vote. Bravo, congratulations, you were very good! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] However, since I have spoken on the amendment, I would like to explain that it calls for agreement with local communities and with all those involved. Apart from the fact that in this way you did not involve us, that we would also be involved (sorry, but I feel a little caught up in this vote with which you blew us 1,000 amendments in a minute), it is important to involve the local communities. In France there is, for those who speak French, the débat public, that is, the public debate in which local populations are expected to be involved when they do the great works. In Italy this has not been done and has always gone against the local people... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Stop! CIOFFI (M5S). Another time? Who said that was enough? Just what? Senator Cardiello, shut up! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u148	He concluded his speech, because he would also have run out of time and had already been given additional time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u149	CIOFFI (M5S). Time's up! CASTALDI (M5S). A thousand amendments! Total dictatorship! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, continue your explanation of vote. CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on amendment 4.1032, which calls for the involvement of local populations, as we should do on all major works, not only on this one. We have to start to understand that we have to think in another way, because the state cannot go with flat feet in tackle, as they say in football jargon, in people's feet. And then these great works... [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Guagliò, learn something, have the pity to listen, be democratic. You have to stop it! You don't have any brains, you haven't even read these amendments! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u150	Senator Cioffi, finish your speech for an explanation of vote. Colleagues, please be quiet and allow the senator to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u151	CIOFFI (M5S). I repeat that I am adding my signature to amendment 4.1032 and I call on the House to vote, because this is how the local people are involved. It's the least we can do for a fight that's been going on for 20 years. It's the least you have to do. You must have the courage to do these things! Have a little courage, because you never have it! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. The Senators of the M5S Group repeatedly spell in unison the words: "Out of the Mafia from the State!", exposing handkerchiefs bearing the inscription: "No TAV".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u152	Quiet! Please put those handkerchiefs down. I invite the quaestor senators to have the handkerchiefs picked up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u155	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I realize that the situation for the Presidency and the majority of the Government is very delicate at the moment, since at one stroke you have cancelled 1000 amendments (in fact, you have deleted them). But I also realize that there is a certain attitude of collaboration in some senators, who help us, consciously or perhaps unconsciously, to do some obstructionism. I would therefore like to thank Senator Cardiello, of the Forza Italia Group, who helped us in this phase to do obstructionism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I thank him publicly and I remember that no one will be able to stop our proud and dry attitude No TAV. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u156	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.1032, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u157	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u158	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u159	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1, which is identical to Amendment 5.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u162	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, for the last time on this measure, on all the amendments to Article 5, which are the few that remain. Next time try to give us the chance to press the button a little more seriously, as we always do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u163	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, identical to amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1164
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u166	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, on the last vote, I would like to point out that I accidentally voted in favour, but that it was my intention to vote against Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u167	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u170	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, our vote is in favour. We have listened to the general debate, and I could conclude my explanation of vote. (Some Senators from the M5S Group descend into the Chamber) [[wearing handkerchiefs bearing the inscription "No TAV"]] DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, have those scarves removed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the Senators of the M5S Group not to display signs or to leave the Chamber. Sunta (SPI). Madam President, it is not easy to speak normally. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Shut up!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u171	You can't wear signs. I invite colleagues to leave or the quaestors senators to provide. I pray to the senators. Quaestors shall ensure that no signs are displayed, even if worn. Senator De Poli, please perform your duties. Senator Malan, please avoid such a demonstration in the hemicycle, because it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u172	President, may I continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. Since I'm notoriously a Yes TAV, I have no problem seeing this No TAV show. PUGLIA (M5S). Shut up! CARDINALI (PD). Shut up! Sunta (SPI). Let me talk! It's really hard that way. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] What do you want...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u173	Senator Susta, continue your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u174	I beg all colleagues to allow Senator Susta to speak. Sunta (SPI). I was saying, ma'am, I could just... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you can't display signs. (On the bench in front of that of Senator Santangelo is displayed a sign with the inscription "No TAV". SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not me! (Senator Santangelo takes off his jacket to show that he doesn't hide signs.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then it's Senator Crimes. The sign was hung in front of his desk. Sunta (SPI). We have experienced these situations even in environments in a certain sense more than trench. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo is innocent, so let's continue. Sunta (SPI). I'm moving on. Let's not worry about them. We Piedmontese have experienced moments like these in a bit more complicated trenches. So, it certainly doesn't scare us this gazzar. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We'll keep going. As I said, I could have attached to this explanation of vote Senator Esposito's speech, also because of the continued solidarity that we as individuals and institutions must give him for the battle he is leading. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] and as far as he is going through, even in terms of personal life, to defend an initiative, this one, which is certainly one of the most important strategic choices that affect the future of Europe and also of Italy. (Some Senators of the M5S Group are stationed in the hemicycle wearing a handkerchief with the inscription "No TAV"). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Susta, some parliamentarians prevent you from making your speech with an action that is disrespectful. Sunta (SPI). But I... Senator Susta, please interrupt. I beg the quaestors senators to put an end to this manifestation in the hemicycle. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] I believe that the instruments of the event should be removed. Senator Susta, please resume your intervention. Sunta (SPI). I was saying that our vote can only be in favour of a work that is certainly strategic for Europe and Italy and, within Italy, for the North-West. It is for Europe, because also the corrections that Corridor 5 has undergone in recent years... PRESIDENT. Senator Blundo, you are not allowed to photograph in the Chamber. Please, then, stop your reporter activity. Sunta (SPI). In the meantime, what is going on is what we say. I was saying that it is strategic for Europe, because even with the additions and changes that the project has undergone, it goes in the direction of linking Africa faster to Europe. It goes in the direction of the interest of Italy, because the passage in northern Italy of this railway line to reach Eastern Europe to the Europe of the West is fundamental for all the North Italy and for the revival of our economy. It is an advantage for the North West of Italy, and not only for Piedmont, but also for Liguria itself (I allow myself to correct what Senator Rossi said, even with amiability). The North West is likely to be either the marginal part of Italy or the centre of Europe. With this project we think... PUGLIA (M5S). That's not true! Sunta (SPI). ...that it can be, precisely in the intersection between the Third Pass and the TAV, the heart of the new Europe and the new traffics. We could list a lot of technical reasons for removing what has been said in this House about the aspects opposed to the project. PUGLIA (M5S). That's not true! You're lying!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u175	Senator Puglia will say it in his speech whether it is true or not, and it has been said throughout the discussion. Senator Susta's opinion is what he's doing. Allow it to take place and do not interrupt the explanation of vote. Senator Susta, continue. PUGLIA (M5S). You can't lie in here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, Senator Susta is making his explanation of vote and must conclude it. Your Group will have the opportunity to express its opinion when it declares its vote on the measure. Mr Fornaro (PD). We're in democracy, Puglia, learn!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u176	Repeat. I believe that it is an absolutely strategic work, that the current line must be radically changed and that the trade flows, which today cannot pass on this railway line, even with the adjustments, need this new line. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] This, in fact, is the way to transfer on iron what today passes on rubber in our valleys. This is necessary in order to relaunch our gross domestic product. [[Protests of Senator Puglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u177	Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u178	Sunta (SPI). I must conclude, but I want to reiterate the issues of merit that are strategic for our Country and that are fundamental in order to be able to interconnect all the system of the internal logistics to the port of Genoa and of collection from Africa and Asia towards Rotterdam and towards Europe. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] These are the main reasons for our relaunch. The rest... [[Protests from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). It's talk. Vote! Sunta (SPI). Have you studied some... [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u179	Senator Santangelo, you as the Parent Company should ensure that Members of your Group allow Senator Susta to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u180	Sunta (SPI). However, we will vote strongly in favour of this project, as I hope the majority of the Senate will do. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] NUGNES (M5S). Buffoons!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u181	The Senate's work continues with explanations of vote. I ask the Leader of the 5 Star Movement to ensure that the Members of his Group allow the other senators to speak. (Senator Santangelo asks to intervene.) I have offered her an invitation and a prayer, there is no need for a reply. We are in the process of explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u184	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, I will not be intimidated. They can scream as much as they want. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the draft law ratifying this Agreement merits clarity and concreteness, something far from the polemics of recent times and from the ever-easy exploitations. We know that the issue still raises many doubts among some political forces and especially among the population of the Val di Susa and the surrounding territories. [[Protests of Senator Nugnes]] Go ahead, I don't care. But it is true that it is up to the institutions to give those elements of clarity and information that often, precisely because of the above-mentioned polemics, we end up not giving. And surely this clarity is not offered, postponing the ratification of an Agreement signed two years ago and already ratified by the French counterpart. As has already been widely mentioned, the Agreement in question does not in itself allow the start of the works, because the realization of the link will have to be governed by a further Additional Protocol between the two countries, referred to in Article 4 of this draft law. AIROLA (M5S). The saturation of the current line has never occurred. You're talking lies! DI BIAGIO (PI). However, we are faced with a significant stage in the process of maximizing the potential for transnational linking. And we must frame this agreement as such. As some have pointed out, this is part of the Lisbon-Kiev Corridor 5, which is characterised by a significant volume of transport. AIROLA (M5S). There's no hallway. The deal's stopped there. This isn't the Middle Ages! DI BIAGIO (PI). It is one of the ten priority links of the European Union. Often one tends to forget that the choice of the geographical location of the railway connection has been an important conquest for the country. AIROLA (M5S). Buffoons! DI BIAGIO (PI). Because it has allowed the exploitation of the logistic potential of the entire industrial area of the North. AIROLA (M5S). What are you talking about? DI BIAGIO (PI). This, in view of a certainty that is often neglected in this House too. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I am referring to the absence of alternative rail routes for the transport of goods in the area of the border with France, especially in the Ligurian border of the lower Piedmont, where - it is worth remember - in recent months many infrastructural limits have been evident regarding also the transport of people. We cannot therefore talk about the TAV and the future of this infrastructure by separating the discourse from the structural deficiencies of our country and the current limits. This is lucidity to which I referred in the premise. Surely any useful reflection with regard to the criticalities connected to the realization of the work should be postponed to when the said additional protocol will be dealt with, but one cannot leave out an objective data, that is, the potentialities that in economic and functional terms our Country will be able to draw from this project. This awareness is an indispensable prerequisite for the analysis of the measure under consideration and for future additional protocols. I would like to stress one more point: the battle for the realization of the Turin-Lion line must not belong only to the respectable colleague Esposito, to whom my most heartfelt esteem goes [[Comments of Senator Airola]] ; it belongs to all of us, to all those who believe that the economic progress and emancipation of Italy is a priority [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Ichino]] Our country, in fact, has a responsibility: not only to follow up an international commitment, but to promote and allow the maximization of its economic potential. That's why we're here today. In this perspective, the TAV structure is an essential part of Italy's economic future. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Today's debate clearly reveals two opposing visions of the future of Italy. AIROLA (M5S). They want to steal all our money! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u185	Senator Airola! DI BIAGIO (PI). On the one hand, those who, in the name of little clarity, pretend to leave the country in an archaic condition, well distant from the infrastructural evolutions and the well known logistic potentials of Europe; on the other hand, those who believe an environmental alternative on the logistic front, where the transport on rubber is gradually abandoned in favor of that on iron.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u186	[[Senator Airola's protests]] This is progress. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u187	Senator Airola, I still call you to the respect of those who are intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u188	AIROLA (M5S). He's gonna kick me out, that's better! DI BIAGIO (PI). For these reasons, although I understand the positions of disagreement expressed by my colleague Rossi... Shame! [[Senator Lezzi's comments. Protests from the PD Group]] DI BIAGIO (PI). I don't have to be ashamed of anything. Shame on you. I would like to highlight the Group's vote in favour of this draft law for Italy. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Fascists are you! You have occupied Parliament's classrooms. Insult millions of citizens! [[Protests from the PD Group. Live comments from the M5S Group. Senator Martelli shows notes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u189	Colleagues, please don't feed the fight. We must finish our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u191	For what? Mr Lezzi (M5S). On the Democratic Party side, insults come and call us fascists.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u192	Senator, you will intervene at the end of the session to protest against those words. I think they're flying a lot. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). I wonder if there is respect for the institutions: we too are parliamentarians. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, you who are the Parent Company are responsible for ensuring that the House behaves properly, and the Presidency intends to ensure that the work is carried out. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Give me your word! Give me your word! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Calm down. What do you want the floor for? SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, you cannot tolerate anyone from the PD giving the Fascist to the Five Star Movement, and I ask you to speak on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked everyone not to feed the fight, so I intervened. SANTANGELO (M5S). Fascists will be them, not us! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is This will be discussed at the end of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u195	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, there is some confusion, but I hope...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u196	Yes, a little, but you will be able to overwhelm the noise and perform your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u197	Stitches (LN-Aut). If colleagues are sufficiently democratic to listen to everyone's reasons with due respect, I hope that I will not contribute to further raising the minds of my colleagues in the M5S Group. You see, the confrontation is important, essential, but it must be carried forward respecting the democratic rules that many years ago have been given here and that cannot be forgotten, ignored, perhaps by passing a new policy, a new regulation where it is expected that those who shout the most are right. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] That is not the way to behave in a Parliamentary House. [[Senator Castaldi protests vibrantly at Senator Stucchi's address]] I'm not intimidating! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, allow Senator Stucchi to make his explanation of vote. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Stitches (LN-Aut). Don't intimidate me! I think everyone should have the opportunity to express themselves. We experienced moments when the confrontation was harsh, but there has always been a personal respect that must be assured to everyone... (Exchange of jokes between Senators Castaldi and Bianconi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, I repeat you must allow Senator Stucchi to make your explanation of vote. Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I continue, I have no problem. My colleagues in the M5S Group are offended if someone calls them fascists; I am not going into the matter, but they are certainly not having a democratic attitude at the moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII and SCpI Groups.]] From this point of view, there is a need for everyone to grow together in this House in order to facilitate a debate that is truly full and complete. Speaking of TAV and of the ratification of this Agreement between Italy and France, there is basically talk of respect: respect for the territories, the people, the populations, the needs of an overall production system, which cannot coincide in particular with the interests of a specific territory. However, we need to look at the overall interest. Within this Agreement, a number of benefits are highlighted - those who want to read them and those who are able to read know how to identify them - for a productive system, particularly in the North and in Padania, but not only, which is a fundamental point to convince each of us to vote in favour. We cannot stop at those ideas according to which, many years ago (two centuries ago), it was stated that the simple railways did not have to be built, because then cows would no longer produce milk or chickens would no longer make eggs, as you still believe. [[Live comments from Senators Cioffi and Lezzi.]] Stitches (LN-Aut). Look, you're going to that country - I'm not going there - and all the undemocratic people! (Exchange of jokes between the Senators of the M5S and LN-Aut Groups). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi! Senator Lezzi! Stitches (LN-Aut). I repeat, I'm not intimidating! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Invitation to Senators Quaestors to ensure that Senator Stucchi is allowed to continue his speech. [[A lively exchange of jokes between the Senators of the M5S and LN-Aut Groups. Protests from PD and NCD groups.]] Senator Stucchi, finish your speech. Stitches (LN-Aut). President, I speak. I am simply reaffirming the strength of ideas, of democratic confrontation, the possibility of voting on the actual content of this text; I am certainly not trying to make political propaganda. [[Some Senators of the M5S Group show notes]] Here are people waving fake notes...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u198	I'm not giving you a rally that offends the whole Senate. Senators Quaestors, withdraw the copies of the banknotes immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u199	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am not offended when they do these things. They're offending this institution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Withdraw copies of the banknotes: you must stop this flirting that is an insult to the whole Senate! This is not acceptable. It's offensive to the senators and the Senate! Stitches (LN-Aut). As soon as they finish their show... SANTANGELO (M5S). Did you hear that now? Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u200	Senator Santangelo, allow Senator Stucchi to finish the surgery. The Senate must go on in its work, despite you trying to blow up the session! Pick up those bills. SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to step in! Intervene! [[Vibrating protests from Senator Divine.]] Divine Senator, don't expand the fight. [[Live comments from the LN-Aut Group. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Senators Quaestors and parliamentary assistants withdraw notes. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.21 p.m. and resumed at 12.28 p.m.) Let's resume our work. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I believe it is unacceptable to have behaviour that prevents senators from expressing themselves, just as it is unacceptable for individual senators to utter inappropriate and offensive words and provocations. I therefore ask all the senators and all the group leaders to cooperate with the Presidency on the continuation of this sitting. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So let us continue with the explanations of vote. Senator Stucchi, conclude your statement: I'm sorry you had to interrupt your speech in half. I hope you can conclude this now, with the tolerance of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u201	Mr President, there is no problem; they have done much worse, unfortunately, to Mr Esposito. This is only a matter of demonstrations, made in a somewhat effervescent way, of opposition to the content of this measure. We should look at the measure as a whole, and perhaps understand the benefits. CASTALDI (M5S). These are the benefits! (Senator Castaldi stirs some notes.) Stitches (LN-Aut). I'm not going back to content... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Think of Parma! I am not going back to the content of the measure. I limit myself to a bitter observation that also wants to be the conclusion of my speech: today we celebrate Blessed Catherine Celestina Faron, a woman locked up in Auschwitz because she did not share the ideas of Nazism and of those who prevented her from speaking and died there on Easter day. She said that there is no suffering, there is no persecution, there is no violence that can silence our freedom of expression. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] We're talking here, and someone's trying to stop us! We will vote in favour of this ratification. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, NCD, FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u204	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I believe that we must not make an appeal but make a commitment: because of the seriousness of the issues we are dealing with, we must show respect not to ourselves or to this House, which should be taken for granted, but to the people, who have been involved in a greater matter than they are and who must see in different politics and opinions that it expresses a firm reference and a clear assumption of responsibility. And this part from respect of opinions and condemnation for those who prevent [[Protests of Senators Petrocelli and Lezzi]] ) to be able to express itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u205	Senator Lezzi, allow Senator Cervellini to intervene!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u206	[[Senator Petrocelli's comments.]] CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). The solidarity that must be manifested is therefore due not to us, but to face the solution of the problems that we say. She got... [[Vivacious protests by Senators Puglia and Lezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u207	Senator Puglia, Senator Lezzi, please allow the surgery. Then you can't complain that others are talking to your exponents. Senator Puglia, when your Group intervenes, you will be able to bring the arguments you feel. Please, Senator Cervellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u208	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Madam President. The choice was wrong. It goes on with unscrupulousness with respect to the gravity of the choices. There are serious health risks, which have been highlighted by important scientific subjects. CASTALDI (M5S). But he doesn't care. That's all he cares about. (Senator Castaldi stirs a banknote.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u209	Senator Castaldi, do not make this gesture, which is an insult to your colleagues and the Senate! I call on you to stop doing that, and I also call on your colleague: you have no right to insult colleagues who disagree with you. Senator Fattori! Senator Brain, please. [[Senator Falanga goes on the bench of the Presidency to protest.]] No, you stay quiet! Senator Cervellini, continue. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] As far as possible, I invite you to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u210	Thank you, President. We did not say that those opinions and investigations represented the Gospel or the Koran, depending on it. We have said that there are important research institutes, public, and even private, which in some cases have expressed great concerns, and in others have provided only data. The AGIP Nuclear cannot certainly be understood as a subject that brings water to the mill of those who are opposed to the work. PETROCELLI (M5S). Get it over with! CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We say... [[Senator Petrocelli's protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u211	Senator Petrocelli, I invite you to allow Senator Cervellini to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u212	[[Senator Petrocelli's protests]] Senator Petrocelli, I'll call you back to order. [[Protests of Senator Puglia]] Senator Puglia! Mr Lezzi (M5S). In Puglia you kill people! Mr Fornaro (PD). Shut up! CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We believe that the arguments we bring may prevent this wretched work from being done. Sure... [[Protests of Senator Lezzi]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Shut up! [[Recalls of the President]] That's enough! We are in a democratic Parliament! URAS (Misto-SEL). (Addressed to the Senators of the M5S Group). You're fascists! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras! I call on the Group Leaders to work with the Presidency to maintain order and to allow the work to be completed. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Cervellini, finish, if you can. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I'm committed to concluding, but... [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u213	Quiet! That is not the way to be in Parliament. (The Senators of the M5S Group, beating their hands, repeatedly spell in unison the words: "Out of the Mafia from the State!" URAS (Misto-SEL). (Addressed to the Senators of the M5S Group). Fascism won't go away! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini, please conclude. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). When I am allowed to set out a final concept, otherwise I would agree with all those... presidents. Unfortunately, senators are prevented from speaking. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). ...prevent the expression of opinions and confrontation. We do not call for our assessments and considerations, especially on health risks, but for opinions to be taken, which this House will then be able to include in a document, for researchers and scientists to be heard and, above all, for the public to be involved in the awareness of what is happening.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u214	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] PETROCELLI (M5S). It's always the same thing! CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). If this can be determined, then there will be an assumption of responsibility, otherwise, as has already happened in this House, we are talking about tragedies and we are pouring crocodile tears even when these tragedies were announced, even when, indeed, it was said that there were indicators and signs that were clear and wide-ranging and we closed our eyes and ears. This is what we say: let's assume the responsibility of being able to verify an expensive work, which blocks any possibility of development, even with respect to communication, also with respect to the railway system of our country. The Tyrrhenian side: there, instead, you want to do the highways. Do private highways, like the one you're planning on Aurelia, expensive and hiding shady business. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). You do the highways in Puglia! CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). If there could be a moment of reflection on this, I believe that you would give an answer, not to the opposition, not to those who do not agree, but to the citizens who want to understand the choices you make. It is clear that we are voting against it. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u217	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, I take note of what my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement are saying to me, namely that I will not be able to speak: how much less can you tell me that I am in favour, as is the New Right Centre, of the ratification of this Agreement? [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Having said that, I announce that in a Parliamentary House, which should be a sacred place of democracy... (Senator Mancuso puts a white handkerchief on his mouth. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u218	Quiet! Senator Airola! MANCUSE (NCD). ...I feel gagged by an undemocratic attitude of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement and, for this reason, I give up speaking and hand over the text of my explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u219	[[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u220	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u223	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote with the calmness and tranquility of those who have the conscience of having reason on their side. [[Comments of Senator Comaroli. Applause from the M5S Group]] I would have preferred to have President Grasso in the Chair, because he is aware of what I am about to talk about; he will certainly have the opportunity to read the report and give his view of the facts. President, fellow senators, government, I am not only addressing you, but also the National Anti-Mafia Directorate and the prosecutors-general of the appeal court, to whom I have sent my note. I have denounced to the DIA and to the prosecutors general the danger connected to the ratification of the Agreement 2012 between Italy and France and the inapplicability of the national code antimafia. Sculpt yourself in the mind article 6.5, second paragraph: to contracts and subcontracting in Italian territory will be applied only French legislation. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Thieves! SCIBONA (M5S). We have been fighting against this ratification of the Agreement for a long time. The reasons for our opposition have long been known. If you know the second paragraph of Article 6.5 of the Agreement and you are against the Mafia, you will vote against this ratification. If you don't know him, read him and then vote against him. But if you know him and if you're against the mob and vote for him, you're hypocrites. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear President Grasso, yes, you are familiar with Rule 6.5, second paragraph, and you, yes, who are against the Mafia: I hope you warn the numerous senators of your party. Do not be deceived, the article in question is not amended and cannot be amended. It is an implementing regulation and cannot contain provisions contrary to the Agreement. This monstrosity is not correct, as many people have said out of ignorance or bad faith, since the European Parliament resolution of 23 October 2013 on the Mafia and public procurement. That is just a resolution, a political recommendation to the Member States to have anti-mafia legislation: nothing more. And you, if you ratify this Agreement, expressly renounce the application of our anti-mafia code on TAV procurement in Val di Susa, thus opposing the European Parliament's resolution to adopt anti-mafia legislation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You cancel it for the only Val di Susa that has the sadst record of the first municipality dissolved for mafia. Yeah, we've said that before, and we'll say it again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The most west of Italy is Bardonecchia: it was dissolved for mafia in 1995. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also talked to D.A. Caselli about this by handing him the text of the note. He, alarmed, thought to contact Minister Lupi. After my speech, if you vote in favour of ratification of the Agreement, take this responsibility: you have consciously helped the Mafia and the 'ndrangheta'. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I turn to the Piedmontese administrators, to the candidate Chiamparino. We are talking about Northeast secession, arrests, tanks. But what about this Parliament and these Members who will vote in favour of the transfer of sovereignty to France in part of the territory of Val Susa? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Have you read Article 10 (1) (d)? Anyone who will suffer, even in Italy, damage due to the construction and management of the TAV will not be able to ask for protection from our judges. You will only have to deal with the French Constitution and French law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame! SCIBONA (M5S). Have you heard of Mugello's damage in the last sentence? Know that the LTF (Lyon Turin Ferroviaire), promoter of the work, provides water losses from 60 to 125 million cubic meters per year. The ratification of Article 10 (1) (d) is a real transfer of territorial sovereignty. The Val di Susa will be sacrificed on the altar of the TAV and the money that will be wasted in this situation. And you, collusion with the lobbyists, will approve of this mess. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Collusi! SCIBONA (M5S). Once again you support the powerful, the businessmen, your friends, at the expense of Italian citizenship, the citizens who pay taxes, who will also pay for this and who will have in return only lack of services, elimination of the right to study, health care, transport. We in the 5 Star Movement vote proudly against this ratification. This Treaty is absolutely unworthy. We are against the Mafia, against the transfer of sovereignty to other foreign states. All you have to do is be ashamed. One, two, three... (The Senators of the M5S Group spell out the words: "A will be düra!")
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u226	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. Unfortunately, we will be forced to hand over the text of the intervention... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] URAS (Misto-SEL). No delivery! Talking is our right. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). ...for an open attempt to shut your mouth... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u227	Senator Airola, allow at least the surgery, since you have spoken respectfully of all other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u228	AIROLA (M5S). Respect is to withdraw the police from Val Susa! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to say a word of solidarity with the wounded forces of the Order in Val di Susa because of the demonstrations and against those... AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you, Malan! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). ...that they would lose their jobs and face a future of unemployment if they continue to do nothing, no infrastructure, no companies, no central. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u229	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u231	Borioli (PD). Madam President, I will give a large part of my explanation of vote on behalf of the Democratic Group... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, respect Senator Borioli who is intervening. Borioli (PD). ...because I don't think it's appropriate to leave this to those who are trying to prevent many of us from expressing our reasons today. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you, you said you'd turn yourself in! Borioli (PD). I just want to say that. Today, even in the light of this sad page for democratic institutions... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u232	Senator Santangelo! Borioli (PD). I would like to express the reasons for this Group to vote in favour of this work, which concerns an idea of development, an idea of territorial cohesion between the regions of Europe, an idea of building the common European area.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u233	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Respect your colleagues and have Senator Borioli intervene. Borioli (PD). An opportunity for our territories, for our companies, for our workers. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola! Borioli (PD). In addition to these reasons, one more is added today to vote in favour of this measure. It coincides with the right that we have to assert in this House the primacy of democratic legality. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which is expressed in a decision-making process that has been built in long years of confrontation between the State and the local communities, which took place under the laws and procedures in force, thanks to extraordinary instruments of ad hoc consultation activated. [[Applause from the PD Group. The Senators of the M5S Group repeatedly spell in unison the words: "Out of the Mafia from the State!"]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u234	Quiet! You can't stop the senators from intervening! Quiet! The Senate must continue its work, so be quiet! We will report to the Presidency for the necessary sanctions, because the Senate is prevented from working. [[The Senators of the M5S Group repeatedly spell in unison the words: "Out of the Mafia from the State!" Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u235	We respond with democracy. The best way to legitimize... [[Live comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u236	Senator Santangelo, you are the Leader and you put yourself at the head of a way of acting that prevents Senator Borioli from legitimately expressing his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u237	[[Applause from the PD Group.]] Borioli (PD). You're allies to the mob! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Borioli, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u238	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u239	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u240	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I think that these riots are not good for the reasons that seriously motivate no to this work in Val di Susa. [[Live Senator Airola's comments]] , and when they express themselves with so much vehemence and so much violence, preventing others from expressing themselves and when they express themselves, as happened in Val di Susa, ahinoi, in form if possible even worse, with threats, damaging even the yards, as well as putting in difficulty those who are pursuing the realization of this work, obviously... Mr Lezzi (M5S). What is this, an explanation of vote? SANTANGELO (M5S). That's enough! Just vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo! PUPPATE (PD). But I really don't have a problem. My dad was anti-fascist. [[Comments by Senator Esposito Stefano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u241	Quiet! Respect those who are intervening. It is not acceptable to stop senators from speaking. Senator Puppato, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u242	PUPPATE (PD). That's too bad. The Consulta of the road haulage of 2005 - I wanted to make an invitation to the Government - along with the commissioners also of centrorightra like Mainardi, that they are occupied of the draft Trieste-Venezia, have evidenced, data to the hand, like this Country cannot be allowed, in tracts that are not currently sufficiently covered regarding the availability of the same tracts, to go to spend billions that the Country does not have in function of drafts that, for their nature and the current dimensions, do not need of investments of this kind. What they need is rather that bottle packages are eliminated, that intermodality is made possible, that duplications are put into operation, which are necessary, for example, to allow the separation of goods from passengers. What we are doing does not have any motivation regarding the elements of priority in the mobility that the country must give, considering that today it is evident how the ports of the Europe North are taking away all the job to the ports of the Mediterranean, because we are not doing what we owe from the point of view of the transport system. [[Senator Esposito Stefano is protesting.]] ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). He was supposed to talk for two minutes! That's not possible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please, your time is up. We must proceed to the vote. PUPPATE (PD). South-North transport routes must be strengthened, as is required by the evidence of logistics represented. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u243	Excuse me, Senator, but your time is up. These are the times laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u246	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have hardly heard what I said, I have not heard a word of Senator Borioli's long speech, and I do not think that we can proceed to the vote without listening to the arguments of the parties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you haven't heard, the speeches are all recorded by the stenographers and you can verify them. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But I need to listen to them now, not later!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u249	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have asked to speak personally because your management of this House is obscene. It's obscene! It has allowed a parliamentary group to do what it wanted to do throughout this House, it has allowed everything to be said, it has made it possible to silence colleagues: its administration of the House is obscene, Madam President! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u250	In the meantime, my administration of the House has also enabled you to speak. And this presidency allows the Senate to get to the vote on this measure. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u253	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u254	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Mafia! Mafia! Mr Caleo (PD). Mafioso will be Casaleggio!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-226.ana.u255	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
