ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 26 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u7	I inform you that on 28 March 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 47 of 28 March 2014 on urgent measures for the emergency of housing, for the construction market and for Expo 2015" (1413).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 380, 944 and 1290. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 12 March the working rapporteur, Senator Palma, carried out the oral report, Senator Stefani presented a question for a preliminary ruling and a quorum was not present on the next vote. I therefore put the question referred by Senator Stefani to the vote. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u9	Mr President, this text amends the Code of Criminal Procedure on protective custody and redefines the limits of application of Article 274 et seq. of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with a clear aim, namely to combine the precautionary requirements of the danger of flight, the danger of recurrence of crime or pollution of evidence, the safeguarding of social security and investigation activity with fundamental principles of our legal system, starting with that of inviolable personal freedom, Article 13 of the Constitution. With this measure it is therefore delimited the use of custody in prison for procedural precautionary purposes to guarantee the principle of favor libertatis and the principle of not guilty until final condemnation. As a corollary of the same Article 111 of the Constitution, as innovated in 1999 and 2000, which states that jurisdiction is implemented through the right process and that it recalls, as a key criterion, the principle that the trial takes place in the contradictory between the parties and in an equal position, according to an accusatory procedural model, with the obligation of motivation for all the measures taken by the judge. Even in such a guaranteeing legal framework, there are anonymous, unacceptable data compared to the number of prisoners in prison subjected to a precautionary measure. The complaint concerns 40% of prisoners, who have a strong impact on the overcrowding index of prison institutions, 18% of whom, the statistics always tell us, will be released and can claim the right to compensation for unjust detention. The excessive use of the measure of detention in prison should be considered an accident in the complaint that the European Union and the Court of Justice have made against our country for the violation of human rights and commonly recognised judicial guarantees. And if, as we have often found ourselves repeating, the statistics tell us that the overcrowding in prisons in Italy is not due to a supernumber of prisoners (which is in the European average for countries of our dimension), but comes from an inability to give answers to the planning of the extension of institutions compared to a number of prisoners who in 15 years of our history has varied from 57,000 to 61,000, planning and planning and then implementing national plans is necessary not only to guarantee more space for each individual but to ensure spaces for sociality and reeducation and training activities. In our criminal law and prison execution, prison is the place of treatment and re-education, of the re-socialization that follows the sentence of the deed, as prescribed by the Constitution in Article 27. Yet, those who come into contact with the prison prepare for relapse, all the more so those who come into contact not as convicted, but as suspect or accused. Prisons in this case should represent the extreme ratio in a gradual criminal system, including in relation to the application of interdictive measures, which temporarily limit the exercise of powers and rights, as well as coercive, from the prohibition of approaching certain places, to the obligation or prohibition of residence, to house arrests. That 40% of prisoners tell us that a typical approach of the previous procedural model continues to prevail, the inquisitive one, which therefore prompts us to discipline and delimit with greater force the discretion of the judge in the assessment of the prerequisites for the application of the more restrictive precautionary measure of personal freedom. The text, which also has an important deflective effect for prison institutions, states that the requirements of the practicality and topicality of the precautionary requirement are attested by the judge and that they are not derived exclusively from the seriousness of the offence for which it is carried out and excludes the possibility of applying both the measure of detention in prison and of house arrests if it is assumed that the sentence will not be executed in prison or if the conditional suspension of the sentence or suspension of execution, as referred to in Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is granted for the application of alternative measures. The prison, therefore, as an extreme ratio and only when any other measure is inadequate (interdictive or coercive or applied jointly). In order to provide for the most restrictive measure, the court is therefore required to explain the reasons for the inability to ensure precautionary requirements by other measures, including the use of electronic bracelets, and the grounds must be explicit, as set out in the statement of reasons for the order, penalty of validity and annulment of the measure by the review court. The annulment is ordered if there is no justification, or if it does not contain the judge's own assessment of the precautionary requirements, the evidence and the elements provided by the defence, to strengthen the principle of the gradualness of the measures and in compliance with those criteria of choice and selection, already enshrined in the law (i.e. that of the adequacy and proportionality of the measure to the fact committed and to the sanction that is then deemed to go to command with the eventual conviction). The innovation that we are therefore going to introduce with this measure in the procedural part of the law produces an important and potential deflagrating effect with a structural measure compared to the overcrowding of prisons. The measure also aims to further strengthen the fundamental right of man, which is that of his personal freedom, and builds a framework of greater guarantee, credibility and efficiency of the justice system, in the wake and in consistency with that which the Attorney General Scarpinato, at the inauguration of the 2014 judicial year, defined as a repressive illusion of the penalty and, therefore, all the more, of the prison detention that has pervaded the judicial action of these years. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u10	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students and teachers of the state secondary school of first grade Galeazzo Alessi, of Santa Maria degli Angeli, in the province of Perugia, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to read a speech which, a few days ago, appeared in the daily newspaper of the province of Varese (La Prealpina). I'm making a proposal. In case there is a reshuffle in the government, I propose that the Dicastery of Justice be entrusted to a psychiatrist. Certainly it will not be understood by law, but this given the precedents is not a problem, but at least it will cure the schizophrenia that afflicts our legislators. On the one hand, there are proclamations of challenges against crime and strong words of order: certainty of punishment, zero tolerance against tax evasion, fight against feminicide, introduction of the crime of street murder; on the other, there is rumor of amnesty and indult, action is taken to empty prisons and bonuses are granted not accompanied by measures aimed at the prevention of crimes (how long does a year in prison? For those who committed crimes and were convicted, 7 months). In a country where the destruction of public heritage has systemic nature and the corruption alligna in every public sector, this is similar to the behaviour of the landlord who guards his belongings puts a dog without teeth. The article continues: What has been seen so far is not enough. A further blow to the effectiveness of the justice system is taking care of the Italian Parliament these days. The basic philosophy that adopts the bill is simple - just what we are dealing with today. If the thermometer indicates that the patient has a fever, just break the thermometer. If there are too many inmates waiting for trial (because there are too many crimes and degrees of judgment) it is enough to make the issue of the precautionary measure more difficult. Patience if the delinquents remain free until the Greek calends. Let's see what's underneath all this. Until now, the judge's reasoning was simple: you committed a serious crime by proving that the threat of punishment was not enough to stop you. I think that there is a real danger and that you can commit other crimes and therefore I issue a precautionary measure (incarcerate or house arrest). On the other hand, the reform adds that the danger, as well as the real danger, must be present, and then continues as follows: "The situations of concrete and present danger, even in relation to the person of the accused, cannot be derived solely from the gravity of the crime for which it is proceeding." Let's put the case of the only child, without relatives, until then good boy, who kills his parents in order to achieve the inheritance and then confesses the crime: we must conclude that there are no need for protective custody, since he has no involvement in killing other people, and therefore he can safely wait for the outcome of the trials in a state of freedom. Eventually, to avoid a hypothetical escape (but the fugitive is difficult and expensive) just remove your passport. Similarly, the public administrator who, after being found with his hands dirty with jam, resigns from office, or the multimillion-dollar entrepreneur who leaves office will not have to be arrested because the danger that they commit crimes is no longer relevant. Of course, the relapsing thief who steals a car can be safely put in prison, because his personality - he likes other people's cars - suggests that he will commit or commit other crimes. It's not enough. Another rule states that the measure of detention in prison or of house arrest may not be applied if the judge considers that the sentence may be granted conditional suspension of the sentence (and so far nothing new), but then adds: "or if he considers that the execution of the sentence may be suspended in accordance with Article 656, paragraph 5 of the judgment. In other words, these are all sentences of no more than three years' imprisonment and, in some cases, four years' imprisonment. What this means: that since most of the convictions for sin, corruption, concussion, tax evasion almost never exceed this limit, these people will not do a day in prison. Let's move on. Is the judge's work difficult? Let's make it harder. There is a constitutional rule that imposes the reasonable duration of the trial. What does that mean? That everything that is superfluous must be eliminated and that slows down the process, whose ultimate aim is, and may be, nothing more than the statement of guilt or innocence of the defendant. Article 9 of the draft law provides that on the request for a precautionary measure by the prosecutor, the judge must provide for an "autonomous assessment," both with regard to the precautionary requirements and with regard to the evidence of guilt. So, ladies and gentlemen, this article goes on very acutely: The omission of an independent evaluation involves the nullability tout court of the order, and therefore the release of the arrested. It is difficult to understand the reason for the rule, if not to make it slower, more cumbersome and more indisputable by the defence the issue of the arrest order ("the judge copied," they will write in the appeal). I'll explain. If the prosecutor makes a risky request and the judge doesn't share it, he rejects it. But if the prosecutor correctly examines the acts, correctly interprets the legal norm and makes a request in which he fully indicates the clues of guilt and the reasons why it is necessary to arrest the suspect, what does it mean to require the judge to carry out an independent evaluation, so something completely different from reality? How is it shown that an independent evaluation has been carried out in measures that can also be hundreds of pages? Is it enough to change the words, to paraphrase the text or must we radically change the concepts? And how can we change concepts if we are talking about a unique reality? If the suspect has the victim's blood on his hands and has the plane ticket in his pocket and the prosecutor indicates these elements in support of the request for arrest, what is the individual assessment required of the judge? That's the facts. And why, if there is no self-assessment - the judge's error - but the right provision, it must be annulled and cannot be corrected by any other judge? Wrong is the judge and pays the community? How many times have we seen this! Let me say a few words: let us remember that at present this country does not yet comply with European legislation which imposes civil liability on judges as well as on all other public professionals. If this bill were to become a law, and I hope that the Senate vote won't allow it, who escapes from the house arrests will be able to put back there again: but then what is the use of the much-warned electronic bracelet? We come to the absurdity that the police will be able, and in some cases they will have to, to arrest in flagrant crime, but the judge will have to release immediately. As someone said, "it's a sin to think wrong, but it's often right." If this is not a law that makes the work of the magistrates difficult, someone must explain the usefulness of it. "He said Adrian Zuckermann, Oxford professor (from "Report" of 11 December 2013): "From you justice is not a very important thing. Respect for laws is not very important to you. It's very important to us. Here people have an instinct of justice: that justice must finally be done, must win. If justice doesn't win, what kind of security could we have in this country?". I don't know what to say today. Adet Toni Novik, Counselor of the Court of Cassation. Ladies and gentlemen, we read very little speeches like this on what we are debating in this House today, because the pages of the newspapers are occupied by President Renzi's miraculous proposals, which, "anointed by destiny," is dissolving the nodes that have remained unresolved for several generations. We will not read any of this provision, we will not read any of this new empty prisons, because, whatever you want to call it, it is uncomfortable. It is uncomfortable to say from the press that the good turning point, the one so flagrant, also contemplates this type of intervention. These days, however, we read in the newspapers that what the Senate approved more or less a year ago, namely the suppression of judicial psychiatric hospitals, as planned and as wanted to prove, is still unimplemented. And that is simply because no one took that measure seriously. The offices of the Regions have not been activated, the office of the Ministry has not been activated, none of those who had to prove that the laws approved by this Parliament are a serious and respectable thing. Then I ask myself: how can you of the "good turn" think that this does not give contradictory messages to the certainty of punishment and to the swift trials that citizens ask for; compared to a reform of justice that must empty prisons not by making indults or amnesties disguised, but by leaving in prison only those who are condemned and must serve prison sentences? This country continues to move from hypocrisy to hypocrisy, and even today, with this measure, Parliament continues to feed this insidious gorgo, going to hide the truth of the facts. Some may say: this provision is necessary, it is necessary. It is necessary because prisons are flooded, and the European Union will charge us yet another sanction (provided that we are paying sanctions because we cannot pay public service providers). Also on this, the Senate had expressed itself very explicitly; but even if the Senate had not expressed itself, which is close to dissolution, according to the message of the man of destiny Matteo Renzi, the Chamber of Deputies has expressed itself. But then what are we supposed to assume? That both the House and the Senate, that is, the whole Parliament, are useless. Why then, Mr President, are we still holding elections? It costs much less not to make elections: we do nothing, let just one person decide for everyone. And maybe it's also that person who's gonna empty the prisons, convincing people that keeping the convicts out of jail and thieves out on the streets is gonna be an extra opportunity to create jobs. This can be an opportunity, a key to reading. Well, behind all these paraphrases there is a great hypocrisy, as I said: to go to the people and tell them that this Government is committing itself to security, while cutting costs, those that are the values of the Forces of Order. In the coming days we have an opportunity: a measure will be under discussion in which we will ask that 512 state police officers, citizens who have competed, who have had assurances from the Minister and who instead the government does not want to assume. In fact, the government, on the one hand, says to give security and then cuts the funds, does not make the security choices; on the other hand, in an even more serious way, it disposes or even prevents that those who have committed serious crimes against the community can be precautionaryly put in prison. Mr President, we believe that all this must be dismantled, that it must not proceed. The citizens ask us for security, so they ask us for hiring in the law enforcement, they ask us for our police forces to be protected when they do their duty, not mocked by convicts who are released once they are taken because the system and the laws that approve Parliament, and the government wants, so they expect; they ask us that when people are taken with the effort of the investigations they are then kept in prison. This measure will not solve the problem of overcrowding; we have just demonstrated this by the example of judicial psychiatric hospitals, abolished by law last year and which are still in force; they continue to work, without having been here the serious scandal that occurred last year, when some well-thinking people came to tear their clothes apart. Instead, let us tell the citizens that we are giving security and we will also tell Europe that we are making prisons less crowded; in the meantime, the illegals, who are no longer illegal, are increasing, because in this country they must necessarily be called refugees, otherwise we are not good. This is a country that is making perbenism its lethal weapon of suicide: thieves are no longer thieves but are citizens who, of course, have mistaken, maybe have some sympathy for the things of others. But why then think these are inappropriate citizens? Moving on like this, President, as an old adage says, in a world of crazy people, the only crazy person is the one who tells people they're crazy. We will certainly vote against, but mine is not an early explanation of vote: it is more than anything a desire to awaken from the torpor that surrounds this Senate, in which the senators are probably careful to think about what the future of this House will be (very certain future, what are the words of the new Lord's anointed). We believe that instead there must be a regurgitation of pride, that of a Chamber that, starting from the bill that approves, is respectable, and therefore serious. And seriousness is not achieved through such hypocritical, empty and false measures. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u13	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is today called upon to adopt a measure involving investigative, procedural and human aspects. A complex decision concerns, on the one hand, public security and, on the other, the limitation of the freedom of a person. Many, unfortunately, are the cases in which investigative or judicial errors have led to the limitation of personal freedom to a person who, in reality, was extraneous to the acts of crime and to the attention of the judiciary. But even more, unfortunately, are the cases in which justice fails to achieve its purpose, allowing the author of the crime to remain unpunished and the victims of the crime, not least the community, to suffer an ethical-moral affront. The investigative forces are undersized, the magistrates usually operate with emergency tools and often compensate for organizational and organic dysfunctions through the sacrifice of time dedicated to private life. Today's measure does not lower the guard against crime, but it transposes the demands that have emerged from many quarters for greater protection of human rights. The text before our examination is intended to delimit - with an effect of reducing overcrowding in prison institutions - the scope of the application of protective custody in prison, through a series of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure that concern mainly: the judge's assessment, the suitability of custody in prison, the judge's motivational obligations, the proceedings. With the approval of this law the prison becomes extrema ratio and the protective custody can be arranged only when the other coercive or interdictive measures are inadequate. At present, the court may choose between the various precautionary measures to be applied, but it cannot jointly adopt two or more measures. On 24 January last, the first President of the Court of Cassation, Giorgio Santacroce, intervening on the occasion of the inauguration of the judicial year, said to look favorably at those proposals aimed at restraining the area of prison sanctions and to contain the use of protective custody, acquiring a greater critical awareness of its function as an extreme ratio to be used within the smallest possible borders. Today's measure does not limit the use of the procedural institute represented by the precautionary measures, but makes the appeal responsible by placing serious and accurate reasons placed at the basis of the request. It is a measure to which I feel I agree. However, it remains a point, which will be the subject of subsequent jurisprudential interpretations by the magistrates. I refer to the new provision on the prohibition of the application of protective custody in prison, assessed in conjunction with the combined provision in paragraph 9 of Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This regulatory structure, although subject to a subsequent legal-interpretative referral, shows greater protection of the person towards unjust precautionary detention. This is a measure to which I feel I am voting in favour, in order to claim the democratic basis and, above all, the rule of law of the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAPp and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u15	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is yet another one that starts from the usual assumption: the problem of overcrowding of prisons. It is a clear and absolutely clear emergency, which has been addressed in recent years - especially in the last two or three years - by means of a series of emergency measures which have not solved the problem at all. In particular, in the previous eight months of the Letta Government, that of the prisons was, not only with regard to justice in general, but also with regard to the action of overall government, the main theme, without taking into account the fact that surely the priorities of the country are others. Unfortunately, the current Commission seems to be moving in the same direction. This is another measure, which we call unsystematic, which is still being brought to Parliament's attention today to try to resolve the issue of prison overcrowding. In recent years we remember all the attempts made, beginning, since 2010, with the proposal of the former Minister of Justice Alfano and the subsequent Decree-Law No 211 of 2011. This was one of the first measures taken and used to address and solve the problem of overcrowding in prisons, but the problem has not yet been solved. On the contrary, today we are leaning towards a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights which obliges our country, under penalty of infringement, to lower the number of people in prison by 28 May. All the solutions adopted have been channelled into perspectives that have not dealt in any systematic or organic way with the problem of the overcrowding of prisons, a problem that has been approached with occasional measures, so-called buffer measures, which have meant that it persists and, indeed, can be described as almost incancene. We are convinced that sooner or later, unfortunately, this Government will be forced to adopt total clemential measures, namely amnesty or indult, in order to be able to face the overcrowding of prisons, and we of the North League are the only ones to continue to reaffirm that this problem is not solved by emergency or emergency measures, but by structural and organic action, as we have always proposed. With regard in particular to the content of the draft law under consideration, we are convinced that there is currently some abuse of the use of the institute of preventive imprisonment and that this provision should lead to solutions and measures such that the institute of preventive imprisonment is not distorted in relation to its function. We all know that preventive imprisonment is an institution that has an exquisitely protective function, a function of protection against social danger. Today, however, this institute has sometimes become an anticipation of the atonement of the sentence, and it would therefore deserve the adoption of some measures, which are also taken in part. But we believe that the premise of this measure will not solve again the problem of the overcrowding of prisons. We know that at present there are many prisoners in prison who are still in prison for the first instance, as well as almost as many who are always serving pre-trial detention following a second degree conviction. This is a delicate subject, which deserves special attention. If it is true that there is certainly an abuse in the use of preventive imprisonment, here we invite everyone to be careful so that this measure does not go in the direction of dismantling or distorting the institution of protective custody. Let us reiterate the same concepts that we have illustrated during the examination of all the other bills that we have called empty prisons. This measure, like all the others that preceded it, also amends institutions of criminal law and criminal procedure or affects them, and in particular the extent of the penalty. Among these, we recall the legislation on the suspension of the sentence, on early release, on house arrest, on house imprisonment, on testing, on decriminalization. What we do not understand is why we must go in the direction of altering our order, destabilizing the general system in order to solve a contingent problem such as the overcrowding of prisons. We cannot continue to produce legislation on matters of urgency or considered to be such. It is clear that these measures represent a frayed vision of the aim to be pursued in order to solve the problem. Overcrowding is a problem that obviously exists, but that must be tackled - as we said before - in an organic and systematic way. The Group of the North Legacy will continue to insist that this Parliament should deal with justice, but not only in terms of prisons, but also with respect to other very large and very important issues. We are currently dealing with this issue as if there were only the problem of prisoners. We are fully aware and absolutely agree that prisoners must serve their sentences in prison with dignity, but we must also remember that no word has ever been raised against the victims of the crimes, that is, against the people who have suffered the crimes; not a word against the offended parties, which are often forgotten and abandoned. We cannot forget that a criminal system and a proper administration of justice must take account not only of one of the parties, i.e. of the prisoners, but also of those whom we believe to be the right part: those who have suffered the crime. We are still talking about prisons: as we have already said, the hypothesis of an indult or an amnesty seems to be emerging, but these clemential measures cannot be the solution to a serious problem such as the overcrowding of prisons, because they would result in the emergence of further and difficult problems that Italy cannot accept at this moment. As a Group of the North League, we make ourselves bearers of the cries that we hear from Italian citizens, from honest and good people, from the victims of crimes and from all those who are forced to accept this type of measures, whose aim is always to ensure benefits for those who have committed a crime. We in the League continue to say no to this kind of goodwill policy: not only to clemential measures, but also to this measure, which I can already anticipate what our vote will be. We cannot forget - and I take this opportunity to remind you - that some 30-32 amnesty or indult measures have been adopted since 1942. These acts, which were never accompanied by genuine reforms of criminal justice, did not produce the results expected. The problems of Italian justice are others, and we would like them to be dealt with by this House, too, in an organic and systematic manner. We invite the Government and the majority to remember that we are in a country where there are 9 million pending trials, of which 5.5 million in civil matters and 3.5 million in criminal matters. We are therefore in a country where, in order to arrive at a judgment of third degree, it takes 3,000 days, if not more, and we are, according to the "Doing Business" in 168th place in the world (even behind Third World countries) regarding the functioning and efficiency of the justice system. We have approved a reform of judicial geography that is creating dysfunctions in every corner of the country, dysfunctions that then inevitably fall on the whole functioning of the justice system. But with a discomfort for who, above all? Not only for legal practitioners, but above all for citizens who demand justice and want to get it. In our opinion, these are the reforms that a government should commit to: ordinary and important reforms. So our hope is that the new government, in the figure of the Minister of Justice, will really have the strength to make the reforms that we have indicated. Hoping and hoping, we could only say: Blessed are they that thirst for righteousness, for they shall be executed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u17	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u18	Mr President, fellow senators, representative of the Government, according to the data of the Department of the penitentiary administration on 28 February this year the prisoners awaiting the first judgment in our country's prisons were 10,885. The non-finals were 11,355 out of a total of 60,828 prisoners. So almost one in five inmates is waiting for the first degree of judgment and even one in three is waiting for the first judgment or final conviction. Now, we all agree that personal freedom is one of the primary assets to be protected. Our Constitution on this point is very clear and leaves no room for misunderstandings. We also all agree that these numbers are not acceptable in a country that wants to call itself civil and democratic, as is Italy. But are we really convinced that the solution to the problem comes from the reform of the institution of protective custody? The impression in fact is that on the finger that indicates the moon, you continue to look at the first rather than the second. The excessive use of protective custody is the victim of a machine of justice that does not work and we, with this measure, intervene on the effects and not on the causes of the problem. The excessive number of inmates awaiting trial is the child of a criminal trial that is too slow, that does not work, buried by dozens of ad personam laws that have distorted it and that are putting a strain on the very essence of the rule of law in our country. However, we have no illusions. A policy that has reduced Italy to 72nd place in the ranking of the most corrupt countries in the world, it is not conceivable that it can intervene to make more efficient the investigative-judicial machine in our country. In this regard, the failure to appoint Nicola Gratteri as minister of the good anti-mafia pm, is nothing more than proof of a system that does not want to change. On the contrary. The objective of this bill, aimed at limiting custody in prison, will hardly be put in relation to the deplorable behavior of the now former Minister Chancellors, too sensitive to the calls of the Ligresti on duty - for which, moreover, it was also investigated - and little inclined instead to make the criminal process work which, strong of more than 130,000 prescriptions per year, seems to be made to measure for the delinquents, rather than for the Italian citizens who invoke justice. The 5 Star Movement has deposited a bill of reform of the institute of prescription that, promoting the use of alternative rites and discouraging the use of the well known techniques of slowing down processes, will reduce the use of protective custody in a much more important way than this measure. On this we should and would like to be able to confront ourselves in this House without prejudice and, above all, without external influences and blackmails to Parliament as, alas, they seem to intervene in these days on the process of approving the amendment of 416-b. In conclusion, although I agree with some of the objectives and aspects of the reform of custody (e.g. the large space granted to alternative measures to detention), I represent all my reservations about the inappropriate approach adopted, namely to intervene on the symptoms of the disease, letting Italian justice deliberately sink under the weight of its own, desired, many inefficiencies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u19	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will focus on the amendment of Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, concerning the criteria for choosing protective measures. I am speaking only on this point of the important reform that we are debating because in this part the text absorbs my draft law which goes in the same direction. This point is in fact intended to make custody in residual prison, extrema ratio, to the extent that it is possible to resort only when all other coercive or interdictive measures, even if applied retroactively, are inadequate. In this part, the reform adapts Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the principles repeatedly expressed by the Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly declared this rule unconstitutional, in the part where, in the presence of serious clues, with reference to certain categories of crime, presumes the suitability of the sole protective custody in prison. So the handcuffs are taken - or rather they were taken, before the Constitutional Court's intervention - even if the precautionary requirements can be assured by different measures. The text under consideration limits the provision of the adequacy of the sole protective custody in prison only to the crimes of subversive association, terrorist association, also international, and Mafia association, but this is due to the very high social danger of these crimes and the ability of these organizations to influence and hinder the ordinary conduct of justice, as considered by the Constitutional Court itself, by an order of 1995, with reference to the crime of Mafia association. For the other so-called district crimes, or within the competence of the district attorney or of high social alarm, a relative presumption is introduced: it is possible to resort to the protective custody in prison "unless, from acquired elements, it does not emerge the non-susistence of the precautionary requirements, or that they can be insured by different measures. Finally, as a rule for the closure of the system, a foreclosure of the possibility of enforcement of custody in prison is established when the judge considers, evidently in a prognostic judgment, that the sentence can be granted conditional suspension of the sentence or if he considers that, at the outcome of the judgment, the execution of the sentence can be suspended. The judge also has the duty, when he resorts to protective custody in prison, to always give reasons for the specific reasons for which he considered inadequate the measure of house arrest or the help of the electronic bracelet. In essence, the reform is aimed at ensuring effective operation of the constitutional canon for which the precautionary judgment must always be based on the criterion of the least possible sacrifice of personal freedom, guaranteed by Article 13 of the Constitution, in a system in which we are presumed, as our Constitution requires us to do, not guilty until a judgment passed in court. Therefore - and I address my colleague Senator Stefani - it is a rule that does not respond to an emerging logic, and it is good that it has not been included in the measures of the so-called prison decree. I was tempted to turn my bill into an amendment to that provision, but I was right not to do so, because it is a rule that translates constitutional principles into the discipline of precautionary measures. This, however, will help to reduce, alleviate, the emergency for which we have been condemned, as a country, by the European Court of Strasbourg for violating the rule of the Convention on Human Rights prohibiting torture: we must always remember that. In fact, it will affect - and we will see if and how - the legislation under which 36% of those in prison are awaiting judgment: this figure has already been quoted. These are 22,000 men and women who must be presumed innocent and who, after the outcome of the judgment, will to a large extent be recognized as innocent, unfortunately or luckily for them, but this is a bitter fortune. I want to remind Senator Candiani that justice and security are not independent categories, almost alternatives. Justice, if it is such, cannot put collective security at risk: that would be a contradiction in terms. It is injustice, all the more so if codified, that undermines the security of a country to the foundations. Senator Candiani has made a long list of cases in which, in his opinion, rightly, there are no precautionary requirements, and then he has shown scandal because with these rules he will not be able to apply the measure of detention in prison. Justice wants that if, precautionary requirements do not exist, no protective measures can be found, not only custody in prison. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u22	Mr President, for the umpteenth time we are going to carry out buffer measures and we do not have the courage to reform justice fully and completely. We are prevented by the usual judges who - no one escapes - blackmail some government parties and point out to them that, if they are in government and have a majority in Italy, they owe it to them because they politically inquisitioned their opponents, some of whom were unjustly sent to prison, and then considered innocent. The magistrates, on the other hand, do not answer for anything and have the life and death of anyone, in spite of the Constitution. There is no point in saying that the European Court of Human Rights is sanctioning us. On 28 May he will condemn us to pay over 100 million euros, which the Italians will pull out of their pockets while we go ahead without worrying about the inhumane conditions. Those who preceded me wanted to mention a figure, that is that 36% of the people in prison are awaiting trial and that, of this percentage, a good part is judged innocent in first and second degree. The torture of these people also extends to their families: there are about ten million Italians who have to endure bad justice. I'm a doctor and you've seen in recent days that prosecutors have opened some files on accidents in the operating room. Rightly, if a doctor is wrong, he has to pay, but have you ever seen a file opened on a magistrate when he errs and ruins the working, social and family life of an honest citizen who has been inquisited solely for political matters and for their tremendous desire to appear? These magistrates, in fact, are interested in having a media visibility and overcoming their frustrations in this way. We should have the courage to do the real reform, but while waiting for it we are giving a breath of oxygen to try to follow the directions of the European Court which calls for the cessation of torture for the overcrowding of prisons, where prisoners are in inhumane conditions, in absolute non-compliance with our Constitutional Charter. I have presented draft law No 380 amending Articles 274, 275, 284 and 308 of the Criminal Code, and there is also the initiative of my fellow Compañeras and Manconi (the latter - I remember - is the President of the Senate Commission on Human Rights). My text was far superior to the one that was fired by the House of Deputies, which we are going to adopt today with some amendments that I have also tabled. These amendments tried to give more humanity to the prisoners, being a little more guaranteed to them, and more responsible for those who, with a ferocity that has no limits, continue not to respect the Constitution. I'm just making one final point. This Senate does not want to consider the message that the President of the Republic sent to the Chambers. Why? I believe that some majority forces are blackmailed by the judges and are prevented from intervening in a structural and definitive manner on the prison population and on the inhuman conditions that the latter is forced to endure. Do not forget the high number of suicides that occur within the population of the prisoners, but also among the supervisory staff. Our responsibility is heavy: we do not know or do not want to intervene and to some political force, even if we want to, has been prevented from doing so precisely by those who sent it to the government and to whom it must respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u23	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, our position is a little different from what I have just heard. We think, in fact, that a limited number of people today manage to land in Italian prisons and those few that end up there seem that the successive governments over time have only been concerned to free them as soon as possible. Today it is difficult to count how many measures we have taken with the motivation to combat the overcrowding of prisons. In any case, there are at least three of them, and what we are now examining is the fourth. First of all, we are amazed at the European Union's interference and, secondly, our subjection to its orders, against which the Italian State must rush to comply. The ruling of the European Court of Human Rights obliges our country, even setting the date for May 2014, clearly under the threat of sanctions, to lower the number of prison presences in our institutions from 68,000 to 48,000 units (in essence we must release at least 20,000 prisoners). I therefore ask a provocative question: if the European Union were to establish that, for each prisoner, 40 square metres should be available and that small Spas should be built inside prisons to maintain the health of prisoners, even small well-being centres, what should we build in our country? Clearly, mine is a provocation. Undersecretary, let us take stock of the situation and review the various measures taken. In memory, we started with the famous Severino law, which is the first measure in the matter of overcrowding. First of all, we have brought from twelve to eighteen months the last sentence to be served no longer in prison, but under house arrest. It has been established that, only in the case of arrest in flagrant crime, and only within the following 48 hours, the direct judgment can be celebrated. We have put the new institute on the test bench and have found that if Christmas, Easter and national holidays are preceded by a Sunday, it is not allowed to celebrate the trial, making the effectiveness of the arrest fail and thus free the arrested subjects. It was then established that for certain crimes there could no longer be recourse to prisons, but to security cells, except then forget that not all police posts are equipped with such facilities: ergo, you can no longer arrest people. The second empty prison - now simplified using this term - bears the signature of Minister Chancellors. Under the Dicastery of Justice Chancellors what is established? People are no longer incarcerated except after a final conviction. Therefore, the condemned will be able to wait free until the last sentence. It has been established that preventive custody will no longer be applicable for offences less than five years. Therefore, all offences (and there are important offences) for which penalties are provided for less than five years cannot be applied protective custody measures in prison. For minors, annual permits were also increased from 60 to 100 days. This means that every two days of discounted prison you can take a day's leave. But we come to the third provision emptys prisons always approved under the Led Government. What does it establish on such matters? For example, with regard to prison release discounts, 45 to 75 days per semester are increased. The mathematics account is fast: 75 days each semester means 150 days a year, so in fact the time spent in prison has halved. But what does it introduce? For drug dealers, even if the concept of "mild entity" has been introduced (unless the difference between light and heavy drugs is removed), for the crime of dealing the sentence has been reduced from six to five years. So there's a ban on prior imprisonment. Therefore, drug dealers, until their final conviction, are free to continue dealing, because they can no longer be held in prison. This seemed absurd to us, but if we take up parliamentary acts, they speak for themselves. But let us come to the measure we are considering today. In addition to what has been mentioned and contained in the following three measures (this would be the fourth measure - I repeat - emptys prisons), the current measure says that people who have been punished for up to three years will no longer be able to be held in prison. In place of detention, imprisonment or house arrest is provided. We can imagine that thefts will be carried out in Gogo, since there is no sentence for thieves with detention in prison. It is also left to the judge to apply this provision not only for penalties of up to three years, but even for five years; I am referring to the option to opt for house arrests or house detention, rather than detention in prison. But among the crimes punished with penalties up to five years are also important crimes such as fraud, persecutory acts and domestic violence. In this respect, for example, of persecuting acts such as stalking, I recall the heated debate that took place in this House on the occasion of the ratification of the Istanbul Agreement on crimes and violence against women. Beautiful words were spoken in defense of women, but then they were completely ineffective, since all these people will continue to move freely on our roads. There is also provision for the decriminalisation of certain offences, including illegal immigration and drug dealing. We send you back the ball and ask you: who will then manage illegal immigration and everything that entails? I remind you, in fact, that a clandestine cannot have a job, that those who do not have a job have nothing to do with it and, therefore, do not know how to feed themselves. It is very easy to see where this reasoning leads. But we don't even have an instrument in our hands that allows us to decide that a person is taken, packaged and brought to our country of origin. Moreover, the concept of testing has been introduced. What is it? With 30 days of testing, a criminal offence is even extinguished, which can lead to penalties of up to four years. In this case there is a bit of everything, from the theft aggravated to the concealment. With the test, the crime is even extinguished. It means that after the period someone will make an assessment and, indeed, not only will the trial not take place, but they delete the acts and throw the file at the nettles. We wonder at this point what role a State should play. In fact, it seems to us that these governments - this and those who have just succeeded - have had much, but much more attention for prisoners, than for exodus, unemployed and pensioners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If for these categories he had the attention he had for the prisoners we could say that we live, not in a good country, but even in a small Eden. Let's add something else. If there's a crime, there's a crime victim. The Italian State has not proved to be a serious State, because it has completely forgotten and abandoned the victims of all these crimes. In our system the function of the sentence is twofold: in part remuneration (i.e. afflictive) and partly re-educational. Beyond the tones that have been used by writing about the function of the sentence, approving this series of measures, which are basically for almost total freedom, no longer exists the afflictive function of the penalty. It will remain - perhaps - the re-educational one, but at this point, we oblige many scholars and experts in the matter to rewrite all the manuals of criminal law and criminal procedure. History should teach, but it seems that we have taught very little. Under the Prodi government we saw the last indult approved (so called even if all the others are a little indulged masked) and 26,000 prisoners were released. Well, in the next five years, one third of these inmates went back to jail. Inevitably it is a wheel, if we, as an objective, have only to respect the European commandments, opening the prisons, but not thinking that there must be a reintegration and preparation for these people who must be put back in a society that is not ready to welcome them, just as they are not ready to get out of prisons. It's like with the wheels of those hotels that if you can't get out, you always stay inside and end up at the starting point. Statistics today tell us that predatory crimes are on the increase: theft, house theft, robberies. I repeat: they are all crimes on the increase. It is the typical crimes that will produce these people when, outside the prison, they do not know what door to knock and to whom to turn. I remember something very nice, because it is beautiful to face and because it has some paradox: I am referring to the economic theory of the delinquent. (at 12.16 p.m.) (Follow DIVINE). The criminal, in fact, makes a reasoning exactly as an entrepreneur does. Between committing a crime and not fulfilling it, he puts everything on the scales. First of all, you ask yourself: what are my chances of being discovered? That is the first point. How many chances do I have that the investigation isn't perfect and, therefore, that I can get out of the loophole and these shirts? How many possibilities do I have for magistrates to be able to hold a trial in normal times (i.e. prescription times or not)? Last but not least, it's worth it. Even if it is an important, heavy and serious penalty, if the chances of getting to a trial with a conviction are very remote, it is certainly not the penalty that will deter a criminal from committing a crime or not. The certainty of the penalty remained: at least the certainty of the penalty is needed. Well, Italy, with this sequence, with this fourth measure emptys prisons, does not give the certainty of punishment, but the certainty of impunity, even! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It would be nice to make some kind of bet-provocation. But what good are all these rules if, in the end, we have decided that everyone will have to be freed? We establish that judges, for example, are the magistrates who decide. They decide the magistrates, we give them the responsibility to determine whether this person should be in prison or be released. But let's also say one thing: if the person they release continues to criminalize, that there is a joint responsibility. If we did this, no judge would release any inmates present today in Italian prisons. I'd like to ask you a question. Even the Interior Minister Alfano, who was Minister of Justice, came to this House to say that he had begun a prison building plan, with 19 new pavilions. What happened to these 19 pavilions? From a verification and analysis there are even the famous 39 ghost prisons. So we would have 19 prisons under construction and 38 semi-abandoned prisons. But should we not think about making the best use of these facilities? And to those few who end up in jail maybe even make them serve that little penalty that this system, which prefers to re-educate and not to afflict, has decided to give? President Renzi did a good thing: the first official visit thought of doing it beyond the Mediterranean, in fact visited Tunisia. We are satisfied, but we would like to suggest that President Renzi also visit all the other Maghreb countries as well as Romania and Albania, and try to conclude those famous agreements in order to serve the penalties of prisoners at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This would be the real spending review, not what's giving us, which really looks like the famous comb for dolls. Go to Brazil, for example, President Renzi. Brazil, according to me, has found a brilliant solution: it has made penalty discounts in kilowatts. They bring bikes equipped with generators and they tell the prisoners that, if they want to leave before jail, they have to pedal and, according to the kidowatts produced, they will get penalty discounts; at least they make themselves useful to the company to which they have caused damage. Mr Undersecretary, finally, the release of prisoners does not solve any problem, on the contrary it creates a problem for the safety of all citizens. Mr Barani has just spoken of torture. He seems a little forced. In our opinion, torture at this moment is suffered by Italian citizens, who are found without any protection. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u25	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u26	Mr President, we share the spirit of this text, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, because we believe it addresses a serious anomaly of our country's legal system. An anomaly which, moreover, has been recalled several times in recent months, also by the first President of the Court of Cassation, which has pointed out that such a high percentage of prisoners in custody is unacceptable. We are talking - as we know - of 40% of the prison population, however, in a condition of overcrowding now well known, which has been and is at the heart of continuous calls from the European Court of Justice on the matter, in particular following the Torreggiani judgment. Although about half of this rate concerns defendants convicted at first instance, it remains the serious symptom of an imbalance in the procedural system, which has transformed an instrument that should represent an extreme ratio (if this were the case, of course, it would favour a greater speed of criminal proceedings) into an instrument instead of a normal and not exceptional application. The data tell us that a very significant percentage of prisoners subjected to preventive imprisonment - it would be better to call it that - will then be acquitted. However, despite this, in all these years a totally ideological vision has prevailed in our country, with the result that not only has not been limited the scope of the measure, but that an abuse has been determined vice versa. In other words, a real distorted use of the instrument has been applied, determined by research and probably by the achievement of different purposes. These aims, as has often been the case, have led to the consideration of protective custody as an instrument for appeasement of social clamour or as a real means of anticipation of punishment. In our view, these are real deviations, which, moreover, the case law has never failed to point out over the years, both from constitutional principles and from the same principles contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. And if, as we know from official data, it turns out then that the crimes contested in particular concern the application of the so-called criminal laws (laws launched during the past legislatures, such as the Bossi-Fini and the Fini-Giovanardi among others), if therefore the majority of those subjected to these measures are immigrants or small drug dealers, that is to say accused of crimes of low social danger, and if, still, it is discovered from the same data that there are instead prisoners in custody for crimes of fraud or corruption (think, not one of the subjects has these characteristics), it is clear what has happened in these years in our country. You could really write a book about what justice has been in Italy. I have said this many times in this House and I do not want to repeat it today, but our country has been very guaranteed over all these years with the very guaranteed and very little guaranteed with the very under-guaranteeed. A country in which a real ideological crusade has been conducted, perhaps also to divert public attention from the social crisis, from the economic crisis. And the grim propaganda of many has often spoken - and it has done so in recent months, and unfortunately also in these hours, in these minutes and also in this House - of indult or masked amnesty. The reality, in our opinion, is another. Nothing is being done here other than to claim and highlight that principle of not guilty while awaiting judgment which is a cornerstone of the Republican Constitution. It is for these reasons, in our view, that this measure is important. In fact, limiting the scope of protective custody seeks not only to reduce the overcrowding of prisons, not only to speed up the times of justice and trials, not only, yet, to reduce the very high costs (as well as in human terms, obviously, even in economic terms), but instead to use more resources, for example, for the prison police, for the operators and for every fundamental professional figure working in the prison world, but above all to assert again a general legal principle that is a foundation of the rule of law and that probably distinguishes a democracy from a form of government not properly democratic: every citizen is innocent until the last degree of judgment. For these reasons, we consider it appropriate to limit the use of protective measures to residual use, in accordance with the constitutional principle of the extrema ratio. And we share, for example, that the danger of escaping and repeating the crime must be concrete and must be current, also in order to make the measure become really effective, as it is often not, for the crimes that deserve it seriously and not the legacy of a culture hard to die that we have seen with great force, over these years, find great consensus in our country on the basis of so many lies told. The security packages launched over these years have been totally ineffective. The safety of citizens has not benefited from this. Those security packages, on the other hand, are responsible, yes, for the many twists of our criminal system, if only for the fact that the forced coexistence of prisoners for crimes of different danger within prisons has inevitably leveled upwards what we could call the criminal professions and has inevitably accentuated the phenomenon, sadly known, of the so-called revolving doors. For all the reasons I have set out, we think that this measure - unfortunately again too timid in our view: we would have liked it if it had been even more incisive than it is - goes at least in the right direction. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u27	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today addresses an issue of extreme sensitivity to the democratic life of our country. Indeed, the excesses of personal protective measures in the national legal system have always constituted a strong limit, if not even the annulment of the freedom of citizens in the absence of a definitive conviction that has established or not the criminal liability of the same persons subject to this measure. Now, after epochal legal-cultural, social and media diatribes, the legislator finally has the opportunity to intervene decisively and civilly - I would stress - in balancing the delicate dualism between the fundamental right of individual freedom and the needs of justice to protect the whole community. It is therefore appropriate to regulate the subject in question precisely and without shadows, through specific criteria that do not leave room for application uncertainties and to which the judge must adhere. These statements stem from the principle that the legislative discipline of precautionary measures must be compatible with the principles of the Constitution, especially with Article 24 and the principle of presumption of not guilty. In the Justice Commission in the Chamber before, and therefore in the Senate, some differences could arise in the identification of a balance between the fundamental rights of the individual and the requirements related to the judicial investigation of the crime; and in identifying this balance point, the Commission itself reiterated that the adoption of a restrictive measure of personal freedom must be the extreme ratio. It is therefore not enough for the law to move in this direction, but it is also necessary for the magistrate who applies the legislation to do so. And, in fact, the Code of Criminal Procedure already states that no one can be subjected to protective measures if there is no serious evidence of guilt against him, and that therefore there must be concrete evidence of the specific requirements, such as the danger that the suspect commits another crime, that he can escape or that he can pollute evidence. Not only that, but it is also provided that detention in prison can only be arranged for crimes of a certain seriousness; and it is expressly established that detention in prison can be arranged only if any other measure is inadequate. In the light of this legislation, which should relegate protective custody to a serious and exceptional measure, there are, in contrast, the dramatic data of the practical application of the measure, which tells us how abnormal the use of protective custody is. In Italy 42 percent of the prisoners are in prison for reasons of preventive imprisonment, and only Turkey exceeds us with 60 percent. In France, inmates under preventive imprisonment are 23 percent, in Spain 20 percent and in England 16 percent. We know that in our prisons we have, despite the legislative interventions adopted in the last year, about 13,000 prisoners in excess of regular capacity, and that a substantial part of those in prison is the so-called restricted, i.e. those who are awaiting trial. These are people who should be free, people investigated but not condemned, people kept in prison even when there are no risks of escape or pollution of evidence, people marked with the shame of the prison together with their families, people kept together with the prisoners already condemned, people who can be every Italian, each one of us; and on this aspect, on this drama, I could cite countless names, from Tortora to Scaglia, cases of chronicle already passed to history, of uncivilized, painful - and I also say, without fear - shameful injustice of which the history of our legal system is unfortunately dense. Today in our country, out of 60,419 prisoners, about 25,000 are not yet condemned; of them about 10,000 have not even been convicted in the first instance. Many of them will be found innocent; innocent people who have been imprisoned. In 2013 (and these are figures that we had the opportunity to remember in this House when we discussed alternative penalties) the prison population had again approached the 2010 maximum, where one in three prisoners is seriously ill, 15% have psychiatric diseases, and many have infectious diseases. This data already constitutes a slap in the face of the society of a civilized country as ours is said, but the same slap becomes an infamous shame that can mark the lives of innocent citizens when they, with protective custody, must share their existence with those who are atoning for their own punishment because guilty and therefore really condemned. Let us not forget that the conditions of detention in our prisons have been condemned by international bodies, they have represented violations of the Charter of Human Rights which have led the European Union to call our country also on the issue of protective custody, where subjecting condemned with presumed or future innocents represents an injustice for a rule of law that cries for revenge. Other numbers tell us of 10,000 people who are in prison less than three months and who are eventually recognized as innocent; among them, 9,000 are even less than seven days in prison. But beware: being in prison even a few days, unjustly, is equally infamous and marks the life and dignity of every man. This phenomenon I have just mentioned is the so-called phenomenon of revolving doors, according to which one enters and exits from prison with hallucinating timings. On these painful paradoxes of Italian justice, it comes to mind how much the jurist Giuliano Vassalli had to say, namely: More and more, on the day of the trial, becomes, for the accused, the day of freedom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today is intended to block, on the contrary, to dismantle this revolving door, which is a typical local anomaly. The text that comes to the examination of the Senate is essentially aimed at limiting the scope of the protective custody in prison (as stated in the same dossier of the Study Service). It consists of 16 articles amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the provision that can be considered as the cornerstone of the entire regulatory intervention is Article 5, according to which, as mentioned above, detention in prison can be arranged only if any other measure is inadequate. But the main principles of the text are to give greater incisiveness to the already foreseen requirement of the concreteness of the precautionary requirements, adding the reference to the current situation in order to give greater strength and constraint to the requirement of concreteness; therefore, we tend to eliminate a series of superimposed automatisms over the years following the various interventions of the legislator and on which the Constitutional Court has intervened several times. I stress the first three articles of the measure, which refer to Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to limit the discretion of the judge in the assessment of the precautionary requirements, currently identified in the danger of pollution of evidence, in the danger of escape and in the danger of recurrence of crimes. Article 4 then intervenes on Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the aim of excluding both custody in prison and house arrest when the judge considers that the eventual sentence will not be executed in prison. Articles 5 and 6 of the measure specify that detention in prison may be arranged only when other coercive and interdictive measures are inadequate; Article 6 specifically states that detention in prison is to be applied for certain crimes of particular gravity, such as murder, induction into child prostitution, sexual violence, while prison detention is always deemed appropriate for the subversive association, terrorist association and the mob association. Mr President, the different points of the measure are the 'raw material' on which we are debating and for which we are going to legislate; a subject that is too important to be dealt with only on the surface. The freedom of the person should be sacred, but among the complex mechanisms of justice it often happens that this basic concept is lost sight. Let us think of the presumption of not guilty, solemnly declared by Article 27 of the Constitution, another principle which sometimes replaces the prejudice of the presumption of guilty, that is, when a man arrested is automatically considered guilty. In the current custom, even in public opinion, the criminal charge often coincides with the conviction, thus interrupting the necessary balance in favour of the enlargement of a field of accusations without crime, a situation already foreseen by Cesare Beccaria, which defined it as the antechamber of the end of the rule of law. Citizens often wonder why in Italy we must find ourselves faced with the alternative or get away with the guilty or make known the prison to the innocent; this is a serious vulnus of justice, which constitutes a strong call to the consciences of the legislator and the men of law to intervene. We must intervene and we are also doing so with the measure under discussion, a genuine reform of protective measures as a guarantee for all citizens. I therefore conclude my speech with the certainty that the provision on personal protective measures is not only a fundamental step in the more complex reform of Italian justice, but also a response of legal and human civilization that finally fills a dangerous gap within which every citizen risked slipping. In one of his essays, procurator Carlo Nordio wrote in highly critical tones that preventive custody is often like punishment in Italy: it performs an official function and an unofficial one, obeys written rules and other unwritten ones. Well, Mr President, I believe that in this House we are mainly - and I am also speaking on behalf of the New Centre's Parliamentary Group - in agreeing to criticise the excessive use of preventive custody when it becomes an unnecessary penalty for the citizen and not a guarantee for the good of the community. This is the injustice that we want to defeat and eliminate definitively from the Italian legal system today. And here we need a few more words: "There is no freedom" - it is Caesar Beccaria who speaks - "every time the laws allow man to cease to be a person in some events and become something". [[Applause from Senator Pagano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill we are examining today is part of the deflated measures taken by the prison population in an attempt to respond to the European Court of Justice's formalisation and to the requests from the Head of State, which converge in the sense of giving relief to the living conditions of prisoners, who are far below the standards of civil countries. Some of those measures are already law, such as the so-called prison-a-empty, others are still being examined by the competent Commissions, and I am referring to the amnesty and indult measure, which, however, for a different orientation of some political force of the majority, seems likely not to have a very happy outcome. So there is the measure that is being discussed in this House today. The bill on the reform of protective custody, beyond the contingency that generated it, could be the occasion to remedy a typical Italian anomaly, represented by the high percentage in the prison population of prisoners waiting for trial. The defendant - he says, be careful, the Constitution - is presumed innocent until the final condemnation and therefore the preventive imprisonment, however you want to define it (protective care, protective custody or any other synonym the imagination of the legislative offices will want to find, in substance does not change), is ontologically irremediably unjust, because it necessarily carries with it the risk that annihilating the personal freedom of a man who is presumed innocent and that, with percentages that can be calculated and are not insignificant, will be declared not guilty to the final outcome of the trial. To accept this risk, be careful, it may be necessary, but it must really constitute the extreme ratio, and the exceptionality of the use of preventive imprisonment must actually be guaranteed by a system of clear rules that are not susceptible to interpretation manipulation. In this sense, to be honest, I have not yet decided whether to vote in favour of the bill that we are facing or not. Paradoxically, if I could, Mr President, vote for separate parts, my vote would be in favour of the original intention of the author of the text, whereas with reference to the manipulations and to the series of terminology interventions that have taken place, which have led to a confusion that has made the measure vague and substantially ineffective, my vote would be against. I'll think about it again, in these few hours that separate me from the vote. In many places, in fact, there is that florilegio of adjectives and abstract formulas that over the years have always given bad proof, destined to discolorize and lose meaning in the practices of the judicial offices that have them (with the undoubted ability to dialectical our lawyers) chewed, digested, expelled and reduced to simulated voids, without life and practical meaning. This was the case, in fact, with the passage from the "sufficient" to the "gravi" clues of guilt required for the adoption of the precautionary measures. This reform took place in 1987: it passed, I repeat, from the "sufficient" to the "gravi" indications of guilt; yet this change did not prevent the so-called Tangentopoli or the abuse of protective custody in function of coercion to confession; it did not avoid suicides in prison or at the doors of the prison: I remember the various Gardini or Cagliari, annihilated from the prospect of a preventive imprisonment felt as unjust and inhuman. The same fate will certainly touch on Article 3 (Article 2 of the Commission's proposed text) of the reform that we are examining today, in the part in which we add the phrase "and current" to that "concrete" danger that can justify the protective custody, pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, it is evident - and I differ here from the opinion expressed also by the colleague of the New Right Centre, who exalted as important and significant the addition of the term "current" - that, where the danger is "concrete" it is certainly also current. It cannot be said that there is a real danger but that it is not present. The addition of the term "current" does not change anything in relation to the original layout. Similarly, it is easy to predict that the provision, referred to in article 4 of the previous text approved by the Chamber, now article 3, that it is proposed to replace paragraph 2-a of article 275 of the Code of Criminal Rite, introducing, between the preventative circumstances of the recourse to protective custody, the forecast that, at the outcome of the judgment, the execution of the sentence will be suspended, pursuant to article 656, paragraph 5, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think and think that a judge, solicited by the prosecutor in the context of the pressing topicality of the inquiry, with all its implications in terms of the topicality of the offense of the legal good and, moreover, understandable, to put an end to the conduct of injury, may be concerned about what the outcome of the judgment will be years later? Do we really think that the judge who has the inframural precautionary measure should be entrusted with this task of imagining in his mind a process and of imagining what the outcome of the trial will be, at a time when the investigation is throbbing and it is important to implement the immediate protection of the legal good to be protected? I believe that the same aim will also be the need for the justification which we are asking for with the measure, according to which the judge must always justify the reasons for which he excluded an alternative measure to protective custody and ordered protective custody in prison. This, also because this need for motivation has been included, yes, but it has been carried out in an involute and cryptic way. Perhaps, who knows, the author was ashamed and built this requirement only in negative with the forecast, introduced by Article 5 of the bill, now Article 4, of the new first period of paragraph 3 of Article 275, which provides the possibility of taking protective custody in prison only when other coercive or interdittive protective measures, even if applied retroactively, are inadequate. I would like to make yet another consideration with regard to the obligation imposed on the court by adding a paragraph 3 to Article 275 to indicate the specific reasons why it considers the measure of house arrest to be inappropriate in the specific case with the control procedures referred to in Article 275-a, paragraph 1. Again, let us reflect: do we really think that it will not be possible to motivate with whips and stereotypes on this point too? Ladies and gentlemen, those who attend for professional reasons our courts have already had the opportunity to see protective custody measures in prison that, even before this reform that we are going to launch today, already motivate on the issue of the need for protective custody in prison with arguments so apodictic and prejudiced as to be unassailable as dogmas. In fact, in my opinion, it would have been more effective and linear, rather than spreading the court's motivational path of childish and merely logical-formal obstacles, making recourse to protective custody in prison exclusively to the danger of the commission of crimes using violence or against the person. This choice would also have been fairer in terms of the appearance of the values at stake. Only the need to protect the supreme good of people's life and safety can justify the maximum compression of the good of the personal freedom of an alleged innocent or of a not guilty - as you prefer - represented by infrared detention, with all that it implies in terms of psychic and existential suffering. However, this would mean a radical change in the perspective of the reform, which cannot be saved. They owe me on this point and in this regard forgive the willing colleagues who have committed themselves to the preparation of amendments, but, since the text is irreparably wrong, it is very difficult that, once amended, it would have been possible to amend it. This has not been done. I said that for the good intentions of the original author of the measure, I would be led to vote in favour, but I must point out that it needed more courage, also to resist the accusations, these demagogic and populist yeses, than those who would have seen in this true revolution founded on the rank of constitutional values yet another attempt of the so-called caste to escape the control of legality and jurisdiction. Courage, however, as Father Abbondio said, who does not have it, cannot give it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u31	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo Statale Roncalli-Galilei in Pistoia, who are following our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u32	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u33	Mr President, the aim of this measure is twofold: to repress judicial practices which are prone to excessive use of protective custody, which, according to some, even result in the abuse of protective custody, and to respond to the dramatic situation in which Italian prisons are today. The draft law that commits us today is part of the measures that Parliament has been taking since last year to give concrete response to the need to deflate the presence of prisoners in Italian prisons, also in order to avoid the heavy sanctions in case of non-compliance with the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which set the time limit at the end of May of this year to proceed with the improvement of living conditions within prisons in relation to the number of prisoners, now far greater than the potential and capacity of prison institutions. However, I believe that it is necessary here to reiterate what I have already said during the examination of other measures. In my view, without taking away anything from the value and importance of the measures taken so far, we would probably have achieved a better and more organic result if we had adopted a single, more systematic and systematic measure. Of course, however, the measures adopted, particularly the last ones, are certainly a turning point for the Italian judicial system and are of extreme importance, because the introduction of principles of legal civilization, which have been established several times, but which are all too often ignored. The Commission's text, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, consisted of 16 articles. Following the examination in the Commission, the text comes to the examination of the Assembly composed of 14 articles, since Article 1 and Article 14 of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies have been deleted. Article 1 of that text, such as Articles 2 and 3, was intended to limit the discretion of the court in the assessment of precautionary requirements. Article 1 provided in particular for the exclusion of the person subject to the investigation of the application of the rule of the Code of Criminal Procedure which does not allow the refusal to make statements or the non-admission of objections for the purpose of the existence of concrete and current danger to the acquisition or genuineness of evidence. It is known that it is a principle of ordinary juridical civilization not to give silence any value: in our system no value and no value is given to silence. Therefore, it was not clear why the persons subject to the investigation should have a different treatment than the person charged, unless they had to assume that there was an obligation to cooperate with the person subject to the investigation, which obviously our legal system categorically excludes. Therefore, Article 1 has rightly been deleted. Articles 2 and 3, on the other hand, mark a very important step forward in ensuring the necessary guarantees to the accused and, precisely, to the persons subject to the investigation, providing - as has already been said several times - that the danger of escape and the danger of recurrence of the crime, in order to be positively assessed by the judge for the purposes of the application of the precautionary measure, must have, in addition to the requirement of concreteness, also that of the actuality, and also that the situation of the actuality and the concreteness of the danger cannot be excluded exclusively from the gravity of the crime for which it is proceeding. In essence, there is a very important innovation in relation to the requirements of Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 4 of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies (now Article 3 following the deletion of Article 1), intervenes on Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to exclude that the judge may apply custody, both in prison and on house arrest, if it is considered that the eventual sentence cannot be or should not be executed in prison. Articles 5 and 6, now Articles 4 and 5, are opposed to these provisions. Article 4 states - this is the most innovative part of this measure - in an undisputed way the residual nature of detention in prison, to be applied only when any other measure is inadequate. This rule has an extraordinary scope, since it definitively codifies the residual nature of the custody in prison, which has always been affirmed, but most of the time, especially in recent times, with the excessive recourse to custody in prison. In this respect, I find the criticisms which have been made ungenerous, which are also the result of a superficial reading of this measure, today by some of my colleagues who have spoken before me. In fact, today we set out principles of legal civilization that have long been flagrant and established but for too long have been disregarded. As a matter of fact, from today it will be avoided that protective custody continues to be, as has happened very often, unfortunately in the last period, an anticipation of the penalty that will be imposed following the judgment, violating - it has already been said - the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the presumption of not guilty. Too many times it has happened - the numbers confirm this, because the percentages of the persons awaiting trial under precautionary measures are very high - that the protective custody has been applied at the stage of the investigations without compliance with those principles and criteria established by the norm. Today, in some way, further rigidity is envisaged in order to allow the judge to move within the framework of principles from which we will no longer have to deviate. Article 6 (now Article 5) provides for the application of protective custody for events of particular gravity, a further counter-argument for the new system that is being introduced to avoid the excessive use of protective custody in prison. This is a presumption of the suitability of detention in prison for crimes that are particularly serious, without prejudice of course to the need for legal requirements, namely the existence of serious clues and precautionary requirements, which remain firm, obviously with the new requirement of topicality. Time is tyrant, but I think it is also necessary and useful to remember that, further to counter to the form of laxism that has been accused of the measure being dealt with, it is also the extremely important innovation of the extension of the maximum duration of the interdittive measures, which certainly affect the normal life of the individual under investigation. Even the maximum time limit is increased from two to twelve months. For reasons of time I am not allowed to reason further on the other rules, but I believe that, with the adoption of this measure, we are actually giving a serious and concrete answer to the problem of overcrowding that has animated all the work of the Commission Justice, and often also of this House with the adoption of measures I have already mentioned. Above all, today we set out principles of great legal civilization, of which we have spoken very often within the framework of our system and which we now definitively consecrate in this measure, which I hope will be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u34	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u35	Mr President, I speak very quickly on this subject, which concerns precautionary measures, and then reserve the right to do so in more detail this afternoon, during the stage when the amendments were presented. However, I would like to declare that, today, I would have liked to be present in Milan to honour the memory of Gerardo D'Ambrosio, who died in these days, great magistrate, great senator and great friend, whom I knew for decades, from the time of Piazza Fontana, and of my absence at his funerals I regret. In any case, I am here today to participate in the discussion of the measure and in the illustration and vote on its amendments, fulfilling an institutional duty, among other things aware, indeed certain that this would also be Gerardo's wish. Aware of this, with other colleagues, and in particular with those of the Justice Commission, we therefore wish to honour your memory. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , of the Senators Arrigoni and Marton and from the benches of the Government). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. I call the acting rapporteur, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u37	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u38	Mr President, I too am speaking again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u41	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you not to go over the articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, I declared the general debate closed and I was giving the floor for the speeches at the end of the sitting. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, but the end of the sitting has been set at 13.30. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government have again spoken in response, and therefore I would not like to go into the articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have to evaluate. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But what to evaluate? We vote if we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u42	As regards the request to change the agenda, one representative per Group may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u45	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, if I ask you again to speak. I am not doing this in support of or against my proposal: I am asking you where the change is from the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u46	In accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of Rule 95 shall be observed for the conduct and discussion of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But this has nothing to do with changing the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, representatives of the Groups may take part. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Absolutely. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are, therefore, all right, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u49	CASSON (PD). Excuse me, Mr President, but I must speak not on the request made by Senator Calderoli, at least at the moment, but on the order of business, just as my colleague did or as he initially seemed. I recall that informally, during the general discussion, it was announced that the debate, the illustration and the expression of the rapporteur's and the Government's views on the amendments tabled and their votes would take place this afternoon. It is true that we have concluded the general discussion before the scheduled time, and this was also because not all the registered senators took part in it. We ask that the proposal put forward by Senator Calderoli be reconsidered - if necessary, we will ask at some point to intervene in this regard, indicating the opportunity to reject it - having been put forward with regard to a measure which has already been postponed several times (the last time, a week) and which has been extensively instructed, on which, among other things, we have found a broad consensus of the parliamentary groups (also on the proposed amendments). So it seems to me that on this agreement, this informal dictum that there has been, the possibility of voting at this time has to be reconsidered. However, on the substance of the proposal put forward, we reserve the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u52	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise once again to point out certain aspects, obviously supporting the proposal that I have just made. We do not see any agreement to follow a different course. If the rapporteur and the representative of the Government had spoken during the reply, the sitting would have ended at 1.30 p.m. without the time to vote. The rapporteur and the representative of the government have returned to the reply and, therefore, we are in the phase of the passage to the examination of the articles and the relative illustration. Now, if we want to, I think we should vote on the non-turn to the articles, and on that vote we will see, when we get there, what kind of request I will make to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u53	If there are no speeches, it is clear that this vote will be taken. The problem is that work was expected to be completed. I could also have postponed the replies to the afternoon, in view of the usual request for an end to the sitting. Instead, transparently, I took note at this stage, not foreseeing requests like yours, that there were no intentions to reply, while I could postpone the announcement later. Having said that, you made a request not to move on to the examination of the articles. I mentioned earlier that, in the meantime, we can ask for the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government... [[Protests from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] On the non passage to the examination of the articles it may be that the Government defends the provision. Then, as I said before and you agreed, the groups can speak on your proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, which could also be put to the vote, assessing whether there is a quorum and other aspects. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I'm asking to talk. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). A representative of the PD Group has already spoken!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u55	Before Senator Ghedini, there is Senator Palma, in the role of acting rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u57	PALMA, f. f. rapporteur. Mr President, with regard to Mr Calderoli's request, I would like to make a very negative assessment. I register, Mr President, that in the Commission's work on this measure, which, as we all know, has been approved by a large majority by the House of Members, there has been a broad sharing in the Commission of all the political components, which have led, in one way or another, to an improvement in the text, at least from the point of view of the senators, already in the Commission, and - subsequently - to a full agreement also with regard to the amendments which have been tabled for the House. As has been said in many quarters during the general debate, this measure, Mr President and Mr Senators, basically achieves what has been called for over and over again in recent years with regard to protective custody. Take note: this is not a measure which, in some way, undermines, as I have also heard, the security of citizens. This is a measure aimed at amplifying, if we can say so, the guarantees of the citizens, and mainly to respect the constitutional dictation itself, which sees the compression of personal freedom as one last possibility, that is, something that, in balancing the various interests at stake, is united to an interest prevailing over others. With this measure, Mr President, Mr Senators, it is basically only stated that detention in prison can be carried out only when the protective requirements which are the prerequisite for it are concrete and current. The judge's reasoning, that is, must not be abstract, but must be closely anchored to the factual elements that emerge from the procedural papers. It is clear that when we talk about the fundamental rights of our Constitution (this is the right to personal freedom), we cannot make a wholesale reasoning in saying that that fundamental right can be compressed beyond measure, in the hypothesis, all to be demonstrated, that non-compression beyond measure can in some way damage the safety of citizens. Not only that, Mr President: but, just to be clear, even in the successive passages of this law, the attention that today's legislators pay to personal freedom is particularly concrete and interesting. Let us think only of the fact that in the past it often happened that the measures of compression of personal freedom were dropped due to the lack of respect for certain terms; this was resolved in an incredible hypocrisy, since then it was allowed immediately after the judicial authority, which with its inertia had helped the liberation of the subject, to issue a new precautionary measure. This, with the measure we are going to vote on, will no longer be possible. Precisely because of this, I do not think that we should accept President Calderoli's request, of which I clearly understand and understand the political inspiration, because, to be clear, the sense of this measure tends only to achieve what has never been achieved until now and what - alas! - since 1948 our Constitution has dictated unequivocally. Therefore, the rapporteur's opinion on the measure, as well as the President of the Commission, is absolutely contrary to the acceptance of President Calderoli's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u60	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is also opposed to the request made here by Senator Calderoli. Colleagues, the work on this important reform was done in a spirit of sharing, it was done by looking at the merits of the proposal and involved and engaged the Commission justice in all its components. Therefore, this measure has already been verified in the Commission and is mature to find a House ready for decision. In fact, I will say more, colleagues. A modern Parliament is also distinguished, among many factors, by two important components. The first is the component of reflection, which looks at the content and exalts the content in the dialectic among the Groups. The content that is at the centre of the reform of custody has found an important discussion, also here this morning in the Chamber, with speeches by several colleagues who have highlighted the various fundamental aspects that are being reformed and its function in relation to the prison situation, on the one hand, and the security demand that we have in our country, on the other. Colleagues, a modern Parliament, as well as its content, qualifies for the quality of its decision: a quick, well-made decision. Here again, we are ready to respond to this other criterion. On the contrary, I will say more, a modern Parliament would certainly have entrusted the part of the debate on articles and amendments to the Commission on substance and would have left it to the House, given the high degree of technicality of the rules and amendments, the final assessment of the House and the possibility of this to deal with the general thrust of the reform. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to stop the action now to refer it back to the Commission. This has done a good job, the House has started a good job, and there are amendments which, at first evaluation, can be shared with the contribution of several Groups, including that of Senator Calderoli. Therefore, there are no special conditions which justify the request to block the decision-making process for approving the text through an assessment of the amendments and then the final vote. Colleagues, the reform of protective custody is another of those issues much discussed on many occasions within society and among the professionals. This is a debate that Parliament has decided to debate. Already in this House we have dealt with mature but ancient issues, which could not find a parliamentary outlet. I would remind my colleagues that on these issues we have managed to find a point of qualified synthesis on decriminalization, an ancient theme, with so many debates, so many diatribes and a mature doctrine, ready to be gathered, but with a Parliament that in the past legislatures stopped at the moment of decision-making, at the final stage. In this House, we, first in the Justice Commission and then in this House, have managed to make the qualitative leap that has been required of us for decades. The same was true of the testing, another important institution present in other highly advanced democratic countries, discussed and experienced in juvenile justice, then blocked at the final moment in the proceedings of the Chamber of past legislatures; it has been reflected, discussed, carried out valuable work in the Commission on the merits, the Commission Justice, and then found a conclusion in the Chamber. The same was done on the subject of protective custody. Same work, same appreciation, same ability to find a synthesis: the merit and quality of the decision find an answer. Blocking this iter, restraining it, opening up a discussion intoxicated by factors beyond merit is a mistake. That is why I think that we must proceed, as per the timetable, with the time we have given ourselves. In view of the absence in general debate of some Members, who had already spoken on the subject in the course of the Commission's work, time has been short. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] It was a mistake to use the time left to open a debate in this House on the proposal not to move on to the articles. I think that that time could have been used better by perhaps enhancing some of my colleagues' requests for the speeches at the end of the sitting. That is why, Mr President, we think that we must stop, proceed as we have done, qualify our work in this House by entering into the substance of the amendments. I call on my fellow Members to take the issue of amendments into their hands: there are not many of them, they are contained. We have also done a work this morning which has returned to a number of amendments, refining the evaluation and decision of the rapporteur, who will propose to the House in such a way as to find even more of the high degree of sharing that has emerged during the informal preparatory phase which took place this morning and which is part of the work of the House, is part of that debate which, listening to the speeches that have been made and the proposals that emerge, looks better at the codes, sees better the proposal, intervenes, lima, interacts: in short, this precious work of the House that has been done also this morning. If you look at the proposals put forward, you will find good reasons in a number of amendments. We have also considered one last amendment, which will perhaps commit the work of the House a little more, on the disciplinary action that must be taken, given the time we have given for the explanatory statement, when there is no other measure, there is no possibility of repeating the protective measures. On this, too, which may seem a very delicate point, which could put into difficulty that synthesis and sharing that had been found, I noticed in the debate that we have held that we can still arrive at an appropriate, serious evaluation and I think also shared by the various parliamentary groups. We have been very careful to exclude a series of possible falls that can occur when we intervene on the need to better motivate, to better deepen the use of protective custody. There is a whole series of offences that are excluded: I remember all those related to the fight against the mafia, terrorism and other important associative crimes. We have looked at them and we have made sure that we have a qualified and shared understanding on this point too. I think, as my fellow Members will notice when we come to the substance of the amendments, that the work of the Commission and the House on this point too is valuable and useful in order to arrive at a final text that meets the guarantees that must be given to citizens in the face of a precautionary measure, which is an important, invasive moment, but at the same time capable of not mortifying the security demand that exists among citizens and that politics cannot ignore and set aside. For this reason, colleagues are in a position to assess the merits of this work, reject the proposal that Senator Calderoli wanted to incorporate with his capacity to seize the moment and the time of the plenary session, and move forward towards the adoption of this important measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u63	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that after the speeches by President Palma and Senator Lumia there is very little to add, except that the Senate has to decide and assess a measure that is, in the meantime, much awaited. It is not appropriate to mention here - it has already been widely done on other occasions - the warnings of the European Union and the President of the Republic itself, which have already led the Senate to vote on measures that are already law. However, this measure, which has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies and which in the Senate has had a lengthy examination in the Commission and has been carefully evaluated, certainly does not require that it be sent back to the Commission for further consideration. I believe there are all the conditions for us to move on to the examination of the articles, although I can understand the logic of an opposition party to want, on the one hand, to deepen, on the other hand, also to slow down the right aspirations of a larger majority, which wants to converge on this measure. I think we need to look at the merit of what we are going to approve. It is true that this House is repeatedly called upon to discuss and adopt measures linked to the work of the Justice Commission. This is due to the Justice Commission, its majority, its President and all those who, very actively, work there and work there. However, we are considering an expected measure, which will help to reduce what I consider to be a shame (I have not spoken in general discussion, so I want to say now) of this country, which is always a taillight in statistics compared to the misuse of protective custody. Returning protective custody to its proper function, better regulating the powers of the judge of preliminary investigations and the prosecutor, I believe is a response to a need for justice (with the capital G), even before a response to an appeal, however important, of the European Union or of the President of the Republic. I believe that all this work - let us call it an inquiry - has been largely carried out by the Commission and by the general discussion. I therefore believe that it is right to reject President Calderoli's legitimate and politically understandable request and move on to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u64	There are still Senator Falanga and the Undersecretary who wish to speak on this subject, but it is 13.30 and we must finish our work. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law in another sitting. Before resuming this point at 4.30 p.m., as Senator Calderoli knows, Senator D'Ambrosio will be remembered. Only then will we return to this measure, starting from the interventions that have been announced by Senator Falanga and the Undersecretary following the request of Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-219.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.31 a.m.
