ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u2	You have the right to do so. I would remind all of my fellow Members, without prejudice to his power, that today at 11.45 a.m. we will have to close the sitting, in order to allow colleagues to go to the Chamber of Deputies, and this would mean that we would have to move the vote to a date not yet determined in relation to the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for this welcome and careful consideration you have given to this House, but I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u4	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00244 by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00249 by Senator Gasparri and other senators, 1-00270 by Senator Battista and other senators, 1-00271 by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00272 by Senator Zanda and other senators, and 1-00273 by Senator Scavone and other senators, on Operation Mare nostrum. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting, the presenters presented the motions and the debate took place. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u8	Mr President, I rise to thank the Senators for their contributions and to say a few words about how the Mare nostrum operation was born, as has been referred to this House several times. This operation was born after the shipwreck in Lampedusa on 3 October: a rescue and rescue operation at sea of migrants that has a particular technical complexity and an interdisciplinary connotation. I would like to say here, even in the modesty of my role, that I represent the whole Government and that Mare nostrum is not an operation of the Ministry of the Interior, it is not a public order operation, but it is a joint foreign, defence and internal operation that also involves many other forces. Therefore, although my presence is not worthy of that of Minister Alfano, please do not consider his absence except as that of the other Ministers, [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Ichino]] , because otherwise we create a misunderstanding. As has already been mentioned, this operation, of which we are not ashamed and of which we are proud (as the President of the Republic recalled) [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Ichino]] , allowed to rescue more than 39,000 migrants during 233 landing events. To them must be added other people saved on the occasion of the last shipwrecks. It has been arranged to board units of the Navy (I say this in response to certain requests received from the House) of immigration and scientific police workers, as well as doctors and cultural mediators. Therefore, the operation - I repeat - is interdisciplinary and involves the care, identification and reporting of foreigners. Since the beginning of the year the activity of contrast to the organizations has not stopped for the operation Mare nostrum, indeed more than 100 people have been arrested between the scafisti and organizers. The fight against illegal immigration and, above all, the exploitation of the tragedy of the people involved continued. It is obvious that we are in the midst of a problem (as President Casini said in his speech in this House) which is not of the kind of illegal immigration but of tragedy and pulverization of state authorities such as those in Syria and Libya. It is, therefore, a phenomenon that affects the whole of Europe, of course with pressure to the south. It should not, however, be forgotten - as Senator Guerra recalled last night - the equally strong pressure, perhaps even greater, on the other borders (on the eastern border, for example, where tens of thousands of people come to request reception). I would also like to point out that almost 80% of the people identified - as has already been correctly reported by the relevant ministers - have the characteristics to be considered refugees and not illegal immigrants: these people flee and have the requirements to be considered refugees in all respects. Unfortunately, we have to say that we certainly need to improve bureaucratic practices, increase commissions and improve the reception system (as has already been pointed out effectively), but the scale of the phenomenon also requires a more integrated, smarter and more collaborative policy. It is a matter of doing so with Libya in particular, since in the end nearly 50,000 people arrived through these landings. For us, therefore, cooperation with Tripoli is of priority importance and strategic importance. It is not true that we are simply (even if in this "simply" there is all our pride in saving human lives) saving human lives: we are also trying to reconstruct the Libyan ability to manage the migratory phenomenon also in the field of reception, through capacity building initiatives that complement the substantial commitment in terms of providing means and materials for the fight against the smuggling of migrants. Moreover, on several occasions we have urged Libya to accede to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, because this would allow UN refugee organisations to operate officially in the country (this is one of the big problems: there is no possibility of building reception camps with the UN). Therefore, the intense Italian-Libical collaboration, which was interrupted with the outbreak of the conflict in Libya, must be fully restored, and to this obviously we aim with all the means at our disposal. There will be activities (I say this for the information of this authoritative Assembly) of training of Libyan security forces and joint monitoring of maritime and land borders. Particular attention has also been paid to assisted voluntary return mechanisms and around 5,700 voluntary returns from Libya have been made. A further objective - I repeat - with the aim of an integrated approach to the immigration problem is to restore existing reception centres on the spot (the reconstruction of the Kufra centre, with the involvement of the European Union, at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior) and, in terms of interinstitutional cooperation, it is very important to restore the Office of the Expert for Immigration at the Italian Embassy in Tripoli, which has been operating since 19 May, and the establishment of three Friendship Offices in Benghazi, Misrata and Seba. The principle of reciprocity also provides for the opening of offices in Italy. With regard to the most recent developments in the cooperation activity that has been requested from several voices also from numerous interventions that have followed in this House, the Interior Minister Alfano, on 4 February last, met the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Libyan Interior, and there was a commitment to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration. The question has also emerged - I always say this to inform the Assembly - of the Italian Council for Refugees, which has not yet obtained the authorization to enter the migrant centres of this country. Therefore, our view is that it is absolutely necessary - in this we fully agree with what has emerged from the debate in this House - to involve Europe fully in the management of this problem. Immigration is a global phenomenon, which moves hundreds of thousands of people, and the political instability of the countries involved is not expected to resolve in a very short term, so it will be up to Italy, in the Presidency semester, to take a strong initiative. This is also, I believe, the way in which we are in favour of various motions which have been tabled (although we are asking for some corrections), precisely because we believe that an increasingly strong initiative must be taken in the field of European cooperation and border surveillance. Italy will host, in the framework of the so-called Rabat process, a major conference between the European Union and the countries of North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa, where cooperation issues will also be discussed. The negotiations with Jordan will continue and the agreements already signed with Morocco and Tunisia will be implemented. We need, as well as a joint project, a joint strengthening with the other countries of the European Union, of course also to strengthen and relaunch the role of the Frontex agency. Under the direction of the Agency two important joint operations are being carried out Aeneas and Hermes, who see us engaged by air and naval means in joint patrol missions. The next six months of the Presidency will therefore also be an opportunity for an extension of Frontex's direct action, as was also called for during the debate, absolutely. Frontex and Europol must strengthen their dialogue with Tunisia, particularly in view of the improvement of the country's stability conditions, and it is also considered that a body such as Frontex should be in more direct contact with the objectives of its mission. From this point of view it is reasonable to consider the request to bring a seat, or the seat, of the Agency to the center of the Mediterranean, then to Italy. This is a candidacy that Italy supports, as we think the most logical one. In addition, it appears necessary that the different IT bodies and platforms dealing with various immigration issues have a more intensive and profitable exchange relationship with Europol and Eurojust agencies, which are active in preventing and combating transnational crime, and thus also in combating the trafficking of immigrants and trafficking in human beings. Joint action is therefore needed to focus on repression, with the coordination of IT bodies and platforms, with a strengthening of Frontex, with the creation of a Frontex headquarters in Italy, with a truly joint initiative. We are also, as we have repeatedly said on other occasions, absolutely in agreement that the Dublin Convention should be revised and that the asylum seeker or refugee should be allowed to move within Europe according to his own will and the conditions and European governance of the phenomenon. As I said before, the organizational measures for the response to asylum applications are very complicated and difficult, because of the great pressure there is. (9:50 p.m.) (Delrio, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers). However, during the whole year 2013, the applications submitted were more than 27,000, while from the beginning of the year, to 30 April last, more than 15,000 have already been made, demonstrating that most of these people have the characteristics of refugees and asylum seekers. The reception measures, as you know, have been agreed, with the SPRAR system, with representatives of the Regions, the IPO and the ANCI. It is clear that at this moment our solidarity and gratitude go not only to the Forces of Order, the military and all the volunteers, the doctors and the health personnel employed in this great humanitarian operation, but also, of course, to all the representatives of the local communities, who are under enormous pressure (we realize this). The government has prepared the full use of the SPRAR posts, it is finding in these weeks also the resources in order to be able to respond fully to the request, but we realize that the pressure that arrives on the territories is really very important. The Government is therefore absolutely in agreement with many of the elements that emerged in the debate to improve the mission and also to overcome it in the sense of making it a fully European mission and not an emerging mission: it was born as a response to an emergency, but - as it is recalled - it is absolutely necessary that the emerging logic be overcome and integrated in a logic of reception and vigilance on the European borders, in a logic of garrison on the African territory of the reception and bureaucratic procedures for asylum seekers and that therefore has another characteristic that, moreover, as is well known, the Italian Government, also through the authoritative voice of the President of the Council, has already repeatedly requested Europe. The Government strongly opposes the suspension of operation Mare nostrum, and therefore its opinion is against motion 244, at the first signature of Senator Bitonci, and on motion 249, at the first signature of Senator Gasparri, while it is in favour of motion 270, at the first signature of Senator Baptist, and on motion 272, at the first signature of Senator Zanda. The opinion is then in favour of motion 271, first signed by Senator Donno, but with respect to which the Government makes some requests for rewording of the device. In point 2, it is proposed to replace the words "proposing the unification, in a single European body, of the functions of the aforementioned bodies, and to move their operational headquarters to Lampedusa" with the following: "proposing the relocation of the operational headquarters of the Frontex agency to the Italian territory". In point 8, it is suggested that the following be added after the words "the latter": "If they have a form of international protection" and that the following be added after the words "their relatives": "If they have obtained a form of international protection" This rewording would make the paragraph in accordance with Article 9 of the Dublin III Regulation. We also express a favourable opinion on motion 273, at the first signature of Senator Scavone, which is also conditioned in this case by some changes. At the first point of the commitments, it is proposed to replace the words "to modify the management modalities of the Mare nostrum operation, strengthening the local prefectures" with the following: "to strengthen the local prefectures and territorial commissions". Furthermore, it is proposed to delete the second point of the device, as its content appears to be contrary to the Dublin III Regulation. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u9	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u12	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, we shall be voting in favour of motions Nos. 270, 271, 272 and 273, with the changes proposed by the Government, which seem balanced and well structured. However, I think it is appropriate to reduce the alarmism that has been felt in this House and that is also reflected in the motions themselves. It is true that for Italy such a large number of asylum seekers represent a novelty, because in our country migratory history speaks almost exclusively of economic migration; however, to invoke tout court as due to the help of other countries risks being unrealistic and, perhaps, counterproductive. According to the Eurostat data just published, in 2013 the main European countries receiving asylum seekers were, in descending order, Germany (127,000 asylum seekers, with a 64 percent increase compared to 2012), France (65,000), Sweden (54,000) and the United Kingdom (30,000). Following is Italy which, despite its central position in the Mediterranean, its miles of coastline and the ambiguity of its migration policies, recorded in 2013 just (so to speak) 28,000 applicants. Moreover, the burden of the reception was also supported by many New Community countries with structures of protection certainly more fragile than those of the largest European countries: Hungary in 2013 received a request for protection for 19,000 people (almost eight times more than in 2012); Bulgaria saw quadrupled the number of applicants. Most of them are people fleeing Syria torn apart by the civil war (50,000 people in 2013), but also applicants for protection from Russia (41,000 people) and Afghanistan (26,000). In this context, the strong increase of asylum seekers that is affecting Italy in 2014 is nothing more than the alignment of our country with many other European countries, so it seems unlikely that Italy's requests for help for the management of the reception will be received so easily. On the other hand, the calls for international cooperation to patrol the coasts and rescues at sea are entirely acceptable, because the southern borders of Italy are also the southern borders of Europe. [[Brusio]] Sorry, Madam President, it is difficult to talk with this confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u13	He's right. Colleagues, I would ask you to make some silence and allow Senator Dalla Zuanna to make his explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u14	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). However, as stated by the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Cecilia Malmström, Italy was one of the countries that received the largest amounts for patrol and asylum seekers, almost half a billion euros in the period 2007-2013. A similar figure will be given to our country for the period 2013-2020. With more than 310 million euros, Italy will be the second country with the highest remuneration for the fund for asylum and integration of foreigners, while only for patrol was it decided to allocate more than 156 million euros to the Italian State, while the police fund will receive almost 57 million euros. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u15	Colleagues, either we can be silent or we suspend the sitting and resume it after the vote for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, so that the debate will continue in the afternoon. Senator Dalla Zuanna, let's see if we can move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u16	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Having said that, it is certainly desirable that the question of asylum seekers should become a European policy, i.e. organised, financed and managed directly by Community bodies, with identical rules for all countries. Only in this way will it be possible to allow the free movement of refugees within the borders of the Union and it will be the Union itself that will deal, whenever possible, with the countries of origin of the refugees themselves. It will also be possible - and it is very important - to reach European policies to speed up the transformation of asylum seekers into normal migrants, so let us call them, with a residence permit and with the possibility of working. As Mr Delrio said, the Italian Presidency could be an important moment for the acceleration of political initiatives towards the ever-increasing integration of national policies, because Europe needs a real federal policy on migration. I would like to conclude with a more general remark. Today in Italy there are about 11 million young people under the age of twenty and 17 million people aged between 45 and 64. This means that without immigration in the next twenty years we will experience a dramatic shortage of people of working age, an average annual decrease of 300,000 people. It is an unsustainable demographic and economic shock. I say this in order to emphasize that in the coming years and decades Italy will have to be increasingly equipped to welcome people who come from afar, both by modifying the mechanisms of regular entry and expulsion and by strengthening the processes of integration. The arrival of such a large number of asylum seekers is a novelty for Italy and raises public alarm and concern. Legislation needs to be adapted, reception facilities need to be strengthened and abuses stopped. However, let's consider the arrival of these people not only as a threat but also as a possible resource for our country, in order to counter the dramatic acceleration of the process of aging and impoverishment of the workforce that would occur in the absence of new arrivals. [[Applause from Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u19	CASINI (PI). Madam President, yesterday I presented the Zanda motion, and others, and I believe that I have focused my attention on the idea behind our motion quite widely, and I hope that my fellow Members will be aware of it. Yesterday I listened to the other colleagues' illustration. This morning we heard from Undersecretary Delrio. I would like to be very brief and, in ten seconds, to take stock of the situation, explaining what I understand and on which I find myself. First of all, the government said to overcome the emerging logic, to overcome the Mare nostrum operation, because the exception cannot become normality. An emergency instrument of which we are honoured, because it has saved thousands of desperate human beings, cannot be transformed into normal. Mare nostrum was an emerging tool. Among other things, I am grateful to former Minister Mauro, who has received unjust attacks in this debate, for having devised an instrument that has saved lives. But it remains an emerging tool. Today there is a need to get out of the emergency, to internationalise the problem by involving Europe and the United Nations. This is the government's line, this is the address that Parliament gives to the government. Parliament does not criticize the Government, because it would be ungenerous and unfair; moreover, it is not this Government but the former that has conceived and realized Mare nostrum. Parliament believes that the government has done a good job, saved thousands of desperate people from a certain death, but now Europe and the United Nations must be involved, because Mare nostrum is an emergency instrument that cannot become normal. Some colleagues, Senator Romani and others and some Senators of the League, have presented motions whose motivations are understandable, because what is written in the motions presents elements of truth to which we do not want to subtract. What's the difference between us and them? What do they say in their motions? They say to block the operation, to close operation Mare nostrum sic et simpliciter. Colleagues, I understand this ratio, and I also want to accredit it with a positive understanding, because we know the contradictions that this operation has also brought to end crime; but in conscience, being a man of state, a man of government, some of us feel like saying: Very well, do we block everything from morning to evening? Frankly, I understand the Government, which has outlined a realistic exit strategy, which seeks to take from the opposition the positive elements of these motions, which sits in this House with its head not turned to the wrong but hearing everything we say. They have understood perfectly and perhaps, among men of state, it is also useless to deepen beyond the speech, because it is clear to everyone what is happening: the Government is looking for a reasonable way to internationalize a problem that can only be international. I think he's doing well. We express the conviction that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, summarized here and represented by the Undersecretary Delrio, want, each for his own part, to do what must be done at international and national level because it is clear that there is a bearability that is exhausted, even by local authorities, not only in Sicily. Mare nostrum has alleviated the difficulties of Lampedusa, but those of the Sicilian Municipalities are known, and we once again express our solidarity, not only to the Armed Forces but also to the administrators of these Municipalities, who in an extraordinary way are proving what Italy is: a great country capable of solidarity. [[Applause from the PI Group and the Senators Sustae Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u22	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I must begin my speech with today's bulletin: last night 50 immigrants or refugees had to spend the night in the centre of Comiso, because that centre was already overcrowded, and we have a duty to find positions and accommodation to cope with what has now been called an emergency by all. Unfortunately, a predictable emergency, because on the basis of all the data available to us we should have been able to understand the size of the phenomenon we are discussing today. I am extremely embarrassed because the Undersecretary almost wanted to turn our request to attend the debate into a personal matter, such as the Ministers of the Interior or the Ministers of Defence, who are absolutely competent from the point of view of management, because it is the management that is extremely lacking. But even here, when you, Undersecretary, mention the absence of the Minister of Defence or the Interior and you do not focus your attention on the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is physically lacking here, it leads us to point out that, if physical presence could also disinterest us, because you can very well represent the collegiality of the Government, here, in this House, in this debate and in this historical moment that our country lives, there is no foreign policy. The point you have not mentioned at all - and I am sorry that neither has the President of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee - is that there is no foreign policy in Italy, because this problem will not be solved unless we place it in the right dimension. You are asking us today, Mr Undersecretary, on behalf of the Government, to consider the phenomenon by cataloguing it as a refugee problem, but when it comes to the problem of refugees, the UN is dealing with it. Dear Senator colleagues, we cannot be distracted or few in this debate, because it is fundamental for our country: when we talk about refugees and the UN let us remember that it is the same UN that does not help us to free our Maròs, who are locked up, prisoners, in India! [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]] How does a State like Italy - Italy, ladies and gentlemen! - not being able to negotiate this humanitarian effort that we are making? As Italy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Government all fail to say to the UN: "Well, this is Italy that saves so many refugees, this is Italy that makes deadly economic efforts, and this is Italy that the UN turns its back on for a problem that we feel in each of us, in our own skin? When we talk about Marò, in fact, we talk about our nation, and also about our national pride, a concept that - let me say this - unfortunately, too often we cannot pronounce. That is the whole approach that we find wrong. Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your effort. You have announced partial approval of motion 273, but perhaps, Secretary, you have not fully understood us. We did not participate in this debate and tabled a motion to say that we too participated in the debate, that we too have something to say. No! We have striven to find solutions because we live that territory every day. We are the drama of these arrivals, the fear of the spread of tuberculosis among the populations, the sense of humanity in the reception and fear of not seeing a State adequately present with its structures, we live them daily. With our motion we wanted to indicate an operational need, concrete, immediate: the strengthening of prefectures, which you have grasped in your intervention, the strengthening of the structures of a State that makes its presence felt on the territory, the intelligent presence of a State that knows how to understand what is happening. You give the sense of approximation, of the emergency not day after day, but now for now, and the prefects on the territories, the prefects who are doing an absolutely excellent job, feel themselves, the most important terminals in the territories, powerless compared to this emergency. We said that there is a structural problem here, once again linked to our country's foreign policy. If we do not solve the problem posed by the Dublin Regulation, which provides that refugees or immigrants should be recognised in port countries, we will not be able to respond to the problem itself. Mr Secretary, I would ask you to reconsider your position, to give a favourable opinion on this motion, because it is not a motion which calls for the closure of everything from tonight, which states that the Italian borders are closed to anyone who wants to come: it does not reflect xenophobic attitudes, nor lack of humanity towards people who suffer and who die, but rather the attitude of those who want to give face, but also substance to the solution. We have proposed that an immediate humanitarian visa be issued and that our Government should bring this possibility to the attention of the Community countries. The refugees, the 50,000 people who arrived in Italy in early 2014, do not want to stay in Italy. They use Italy because it is the country geographically closest, but they want to reach their family members who are, perhaps, in Belgium or Germany, they are looking for a job that they think they find not in Italy, where we don't even have it for the Italians themselves. They just want to pass through it, and we, instead, through the infamous Dublin text, force them to stay in Italy. We're forcing them! We are raping their will. Today the government has to tell us what the strategy is. Mr Undersecretary, you tell us what Europe will want to do. Let's see if they'll give us a few million euros more to deal with the emergency. She here suggests warm cloths in the face of a fever that has become from horse, in the face of a problem that must be immediately solved! I am obliged to conclude, because the time at my disposal is over. I would point out, however, that this is the same House that commemorated the deaths of Donnalucata; this is the same House that was moved when it saw all the coffins lined up; this is the same Assembly that took note of the fact that there are 3,000 unaccompanied minors, 3,000 children around without any kind of assistance. This House must bear the responsibility of not simply saying that it is perhaps no longer Frontex's time or that we should start other negotiations. Today, and immediately, we must give the tools to our prefects, our structures, to allow the flow of refugees and immigrants. I hope you are listening to Mr Delrio (although, at the moment, he has left the Chamber and is on his way).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u23	Senator Mauro, you should finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u24	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Perhaps the Government has done well, because it has sent the Undersecretary with delegation to the policies of territorial cohesion, which is a whole other thing, rather than assuming authoritative commitments with the branches of government that hold the positions and responsibilities that must be assumed. This inadequacy of the Government today offends Italy, offends the feelings of Italians, who are supportive, but in justice, they are solidarity in the most equitable way. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of motion 273, first signed by Senator Scavone, because in it we propose a lasting solution to the problem. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u27	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, today the members of the Commission have a great responsibility. Mare nostrum was born with a great misunderstanding and turns into a great scam. As far as the premises are concerned, I would point out that the mission was to strengthen the borders. Since we belong to the great European Frontex body, there was an obligation to control our borders, for the sake of competence. Specifically, it is intended to put a brake - that is, a deterrent effect - on human trafficking. Who could not agree with these assumptions? In the meantime, however, the mission has started, and someone from the Government has given completely different directives and, as a border control mission, it has become of assistance to sailors: the desperate poor who venture into the Mediterranean must be saved. One thing that works very well, at all levels and at all latitudes, is communication. Today, with a small tool, you know what happens all over the world. So from our country a first message has started, that is, now or never again. Other than dissuade or produce a deterrent effect: Italy even goes to take migrants as soon as they depart from their coasts (it does not even expect them to cross territorial waters). In fact, as soon as the conditions of the sea allow it, we observe that the departures increase to an extent. Moreover, the hullers have a great advantage because they do not even fill up gasoline, but they use a few liters of fuel; they know, in fact, that then someone will come to ferry them and that the Italian navette will arrive. We should open an inscription on what we consider the desperate poor: if, as it emerges, every person who leaves pays to the hullers about 2,000 euros to embark, perhaps the desperate poor are those who can not even afford to pay these figures, that is those who remain in the countries of origin. Well, as a condiment of the whole, we put the Italian intelligence, with which we decide to cancel the crime of illegal immigration. At this point, the second message starts: Come, because nothing will happen at all and even in Italy they offer us food, accommodation, telephone cards and 75 euros per month of pocket money. This message arrives in countries that mostly have average incomes of 50 dollars per month, that is less than 50 euros per month. Sometimes, when services and reception centres are not enough, these people are even hosted in three or four-star hotels. I ask a member of the Government: can you give the same support and the same help to the needy and the Italians who lose their jobs, who lose their homes or who are in difficult situations? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Ask yourself this question and try to find an answer. We return to the mission: it was to cost 1.5 million a month, but on the test bench we see that it costs more than 10 million a month. Can we afford this kind of expense? Can we continue? Look, on the big 80 euro hoax, which President Renzi and your government continue to shock, we're still not sure we have the covers, because it seems that not only the insubordinate senate officials but also those of the House have pointed out that the cover is missing, [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marton]] and that you made fun of, great, the Italians. A question that is perhaps the most trivial and that also asks the last of the Italians: but where do you think to put these people? Can we afford to accommodate all those who are there and those who are coming? A statistical figure: Africa grows demographically at a rate of 5.2 percent each year; it is the continent, which will have the highest population growth ever, higher than in Asia. In Africa about 100 million children are born a year: 100 million equals the populations of Italy and Spain put together. Wanting to take charge of all the African problem, wanting to accommodate all the new born, doubling the population of Italy and Spain every year, do you think that with this, in addition to the chaos that would create, solve the problems of Africa? Second big question that the government must ask, that it cannot give work to the Italians. Unemployment data are not only alarming, but have crossed the red alarm threshold. But what can these people in Italy do? Are we going to watch them for life? This is not even conceivable, it would be if ever a welfare problem, a social state. But since the primary need of every person, whatever the left, is not the need for culture, it is the need to combine lunch, dinner and breakfast, if these people do not work and do not get this chance, how do you think they can make ends meet? Here are the problems affecting the Italians, which are problems of security and increased crime, and because, in our opinion, we have enough criminals in the house, we do not need to import others who will become it forcefully, out of necessity. We read, let's say, with satisfaction that the majority also chased us and presented motions, which do not say exactly what we say, but admit that Mare nostrum was a bankruptcy operation. This gives us some comfort, it leads us to think that perhaps we were right to insist, to beat this button; we who were the bad, unsympathetic, we selfish because we demanded security and social state only for the Italians. All right, this will be our great fault, but our request is clear and intelligible: dear President Casini, we immediately ask for the closure of this mission, sic et simpliciter. Firstly, we cannot afford to support it economically. Secondly, let us try to think about social tensions: a country in difficulty, which is unable to accommodate this disproportionate number of new arrivals, which must ask its children for enormous sacrifices, but which then seems to have no limits even in dispensing support to the first who arrives illegally in our country, would burst. But above all, the country would ask itself a question: which side is my government on? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u30	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we in the Joint Group, as a member of the Left Ecology and Freedom, will of course vote in favour of our motion, and those tabled by the PD and the 5 Star Movement. Too many times it has happened in this House to speak with deep emotion of the many, too many, tragedies of the Mediterranean Sea that has now become a tomb for so many, women, men, children, children never born, boys. The images of those bodies embraced in the depths of the sea upset us, we all saw them; we cried, we felt anger, an atrocious pain before those hugs. Each of us, if he was born in those countries, could have been there. We are talking about this, about migrants, about concrete life, about true stories, a huge tragedy that cannot be reduced to mere cost center because before human life, the possibility of saving human lives, money is never enough. It should be remembered that the use of demagogy and ideological propaganda that we have heard in this House over the last two days is no longer tolerable. Today that we are faced with such a cruel economic and social crisis, some political forces, rather than committing themselves to finding solutions, prefer to nourish, in the name of consensus, a real war between the poor and the desperate. But today no one in this country believes in the fairy tale that if we do not welcome anyone, the work, the houses, the places at the nest and in the schools, the health intended for migrants would finally be only for the Italians. Meanwhile, we continue to waste very useful money in the CIEs and you who say that we only want to welcome immigrants and that we do not think about exodus are the ones that the CIEs support them. The data tell with absolute clarity that the vast majority of the 10,000 people rescued, and more generally of the 40,000 landed since the beginning of the year, can be defined as forced migrants, that is people fleeing from internal conflicts or dictatorships such as those present at this time in Eritrea, Somalia, Syria, Mali, Sudan, Nigeria, within the framework of a continent, the African one, that is going through a particularly difficult period of crisis and instability. These are persons who are entitled to an international form of protection, be it humanitarian, subsidiary, for political asylum or by virtue of the state of unaccompanied minors. Of these 40,000 arrivals, Save the Children tells us that 5,583 arrived between 1 January and 13 May 2014 are minor. So let us let the people who seek refuge die at sea, of hunger or torture. Again. 73 per cent of people arriving on our coasts are entitled to apply for asylum under the Geneva Convention, as well as under our Constitution and the laws of the Italian State. They are not illegal, as we have heard in this House, but they are refugees, they are refugees, they are people fleeing from wars, persecutions, they are women who have been abused. Sending them back to their homes, as has been said, would mean returning them to torture, persecution, at best, or to certain death in the worst. It is unacceptable in 2014, in the age of research with the Internet, to continue to feel the litany of the uncontrollable flow of illegal immigrants. Enough, really enough with this absurd propaganda! It hurts our country and it hurts our citizens. It is our priority to save the lives of migrants crossing the Sicily Canal. This objective should be a priority not only for our country but for the whole of the European Union, for which that stretch of sea represents the external border. The xenophobic and racist demagogy repeats that the weight of refugees must be equally distributed in Europe but by reading the true numbers of refugees in the various European countries, we would discover that other countries should send refugees to Italy! In the debate we listened to exploitations and clumsy attempts to magnify numbers. The numbers say that from the tip of 65,000 people in 2011, when the Interior Minister was Roberto Maroni and we had just the useless anti-clandestine laws wanted by the League and the center-right, we went down to the flow of 30,000 people last year. If we put our noses out of our borders we realize that Germany, in 2013, collected more than 125,000 refugees; France has welcomed more than 60,000 refugees; Lebanon, at this moment, welcomes, without saying words, one and a half million refugees fleeing Syria. Rather, let us consider the responsibilities of these humanitarian tragedies. The government has talked about relations with Libya, about the incentives we give to the Libyan Coast Guard. At this moment, also thanks to our responsibilities, to the disaster that Italy, together with France, the countries of the European Union and the United States, has created in that country, there is no longer a government to deal with; there is no longer a government to demand respect for human rights. We are pursuing a policy intended by the then Berlusconi Government, which dealt with Gaddafi building lagers and cages where women were raped when they fled the wars. It is then urgently necessary to question those treaties. We should stop giving money to those governments that are unable to guarantee respect for human rights and instead begin to understand what are the cooperation actions that our countries can put in place to improve the condition of the countries of transit, ensuring, for example, that they do not have to go to Libya, which has become the basis of all the criminal organizations that organize trafficking in human beings. In order to escape from the demagogy and shortsighted nationalist pride, which we heard several times this morning, it is good to note that the majority of migrants arriving on our coasts wish to continue their migration to other European countries where the refugee reception system is certainly more efficient and where they often meet with relatives or friends. It is for this reason, not for criminals, that they often try to escape from the reception centres or, more generally, from the authorities at the exact moment prior to their photos and fingerprinting, a passage that would oblige them, according to the provisions of the Dublin European Regulation, to ask for protection and to remain on Italian territory. For this reason, in our motion we ask that the operation Mare nostrum assume a European dimension with the indispensable objective of safeguarding the lives of migrants boarded from the coasts of Libya and Egypt towards Italy and ensuring that Libya cannot fall among those safe ports in which to bring back the migrants intercepted in the channel of Sicily. In fact, Libya and many African countries with which we have economic relations are not signatories to the Geneva Convention and, at the present time, there is a dramatic situation of political conflict and lack of respect for human rights. It is true that we are faced with a structural phenomenon of migratory flows resulting from macroeconomic imbalances. It is true that we must call for greater collective responsibility of the European Union also from the economic point of view, but Italy must do its part, strengthening the reception front (primarily of refugees and unaccompanied minors), which is dramatically collapsed and often does not respect the minimum conditions of respect for human dignity, investing in the drastic simplification of the times for examining asylum applications and putting on the agenda a new law for immigration definitively abolishing the Bossi-Fini law. It is also necessary to find resources for local authorities, not only those committed to the first reception but for all those local authorities that are committed to the second reception in the national territory. We expect so much from this European semester. We expect a serious debate in Europe on relief policies for migrants, on reception policies that may concern not only the European territory, but also finally address the resolution of conflicts on the African continent. We are willing to do so on the basis of concrete facts, numbers, but always respecting human dignity and human rights, outside the logic of terror and racist propaganda. I shall conclude, Madam President, by asking for permission to leave the full text of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u31	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u34	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in one part, fortunately a minority of our debate, we have warned that, in the face of a great humanitarian tragedy and a great node in history, some people have preferred reflections on internal policy, on internal debate, sometimes even folded back into the internal begae in the center-right, seeking a silly polemic with the Minister of the Interior. But we are going, I believe, fortunately as a Parliament, by voting in particular on the motion that we have signed, to give the government a mandate that is, on the contrary, proportionate to the scale of the phenomenon we are discussing, which has no precedent and which cannot even be traced back to traditional illegal migration flows, even if they are increased. A deadly combination has been produced between a Europe which has been largely weakened by seven years of crisis and which is still trapped in low growth and the fact that Europe itself is called upon to welcome extraordinary flows which are produced first, before even endemic poverty, by specific conflicts in North Africa, in the sub-Saharan belt and in the Middle East, where, as never before, institutions have been dissolved or at least weakened. We have a duty to combine our Community capacity for reception with asylum seekers in the name of principles of international law to which we do not wish to fail, with the equally necessary capacity for intervention upstream of these same flows, not only by working for the political stabilisation of those areas, but specifically by intervening so that the selection of those entitled can take place where the merchants of human lives organize their activities. Today we are basically preparing to decide, as President Casini has authoritatively said, an exit strategy for the operation Mare nostrum, in the awareness that that operation, because of its emerging character, is insufficient to face the great nodes that I recalled. This exit strategy consists in the objective of going beyond this operation, which we claim for what it represented and for what it served, that is, the saving of many human lives in condition of immanent danger. To go beyond Operation Mare nostrum means to accentuate our relationship with the countries of the Union, to take initiatives against the same United Nations, for a Community operation under the aegis of the international system that allows to intervene at least on that free beach that has become Libya, to build from there a humanitarian corridor that allows to manage directly the flow of those who have the right to asylum, defeating the merchants of human lives at their origin, not only with the patrol along the coast, but also - as they have taught us previous experiences - with direct interventions on the means of transport, before these can make their journeys of death. At the same time, it is necessary to achieve a real sharing of reception, so that, from the beginning, asylum seekers can have a goal, which does not coincide with the nearest country, that is, ours, but which can also be, also through a revision of the so-called Dublin III agreement, the country that hosts their relatives, to whom they legitimately want to approach. Now the vision that Europe is required to see is precisely that of a geopolitical nature, which must concern the future of peace and progress in the area in which we insist most directly. It is woeful if Europe, from this point of view too, were to manifest a sort of Baltic trap and refuse to consider the Mediterranean not only as a border to be shared, but also as an area in which to inexorably build a perspective of peace and development. It is through the proper management of this emergency that the possibility of building an enlargement of the European Union to the South can prevent the formation of theocratic institutions in North Africa and the Middle East. So great prospects are at stake, and it is in relation to them that we reaffirm our pride in having shared Operation Mare nostrum as an emerging response to a humanitarian emergency. At the same time, we are proud today to have a political vision in which to place a determined action of the Italian Government, ready also to establish a sort of deadline in which operation Mare nostrum might have to be interrupted, if the European Union maintained the deaf attitude that it has so far manifested and which - as I have already said - would correspond to its more general setback compared instead to the duty of projection towards the great prospects of the future that a community of peoples must manifest. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u37	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, first of all, the 5 Star Movement announces that it accepts the rewording proposed by the Government in both point 2 and point 3 of the motion tabled. At the same time, it calls for a review of point 2 in the part where, according to the proposed rewording, it says: "the move of the headquarters of the Frontex agency to the Italian territory". We would like to propose a further modification, since the Italian territory is vast and the Borderline Regions that insist on the Mediterranean have a more pressing necessity than the others. Therefore, we ask, if possible, to specify the territories where the emergency is most known, where the phenomenon needs to be more protected. With regard to the final point of the device of our motion, we would like to ask you to specify the part that, according to the proposed reformulation, reads: "all migrants, if they have a form of international protection, can quickly leave the territory." We accept the rewording of this point too, but we ask for the formal commitment of the Government so that the other migrants also have the facilities provided by the Dublin III regulation and, therefore, the possibility of leaving the Italian territory quickly. We therefore call for a great deal of consideration in this respect because Operation Mare nostrum makes every day detect moments of tragedy. We therefore think that the hundreds of asylum seekers who land on the Italian coast must have adequate protection, but that above all the Italian territory must also be adequately protected. Therefore, with our rewording we would like to specify to a greater extent the territory in which to set up the Agency and ask for a clear formal commitment of the Government in relation to migrants. We will of course vote in favour of our motion, because the points contained in it show more clearly the need for the protection and protection of minors, as well as human life in general. This, because every day we see what happens next to us. For example, the refugee section of the police station in Rome - I would like to take the example of a city already quite evolved from this point of view and far from the territories most close to the coast of the Mediterranean - has six offices divided into two sectors that welcome an impressive number of people, so much so that a single social cooperative, also in Rome, has opened in less than a year fourteen centres of protection of asylum seekers and refugees and three other centers are being opened. Yet, these reception centres show limits for the absence of procedural guidelines both in the administrative and operational spheres, when general emergencies occur or when there are cases of a worrying epidemic even in the health sector. Of particular importance then is the labile presence, if not total absence of the institutions regarding the protection of children, as I said before. In fact, there are 25,000 missing persons, half of whom are minor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I would ask you to lower the buzz, because I think that you have difficulty in making your speech. I invite you to be a little quieter. WOMAN (M5S). Thank you, President. An alarming fact that must not be underestimated, and on which we must intervene with appropriate actions, is the fact that families who land without documents in Lampedusa or in Ragusa have no means of self-protection to be able to provide to those who welcome them, so there can be further tragedies that go in addition to those already happened. It is inefficient the peripheral system, which is then the front office indispensable to the operation of the state machine, which is in clear and full crisis (dirty environments, unprepared staff, a often chaotic and uncoordinated direction) and too absent in the answers, despite the enormous commitment and good will of the operators, often assisted by voluntary associations that arrive on the territories concerned at their own expense. In view, therefore, of the need for systematic legislation, we find ourselves in reality faced with a juniper of provisions, of new skills, of necessity, especially in health, where there is a need to compensate for the lack of doctors as well as nursing staff, which is sometimes not even ready for emergency. On the other hand, to lend my work in an emergency room where there are myriads of first aid is certainly different: I can testify because, being an operator of the Red Cross, I found myself lending my work in the first landings of 1991, and not in Bari. Yesterday it was said in general debate that Bari was the city most affected, but in reality all of Puglia then was affected by the landings: especially the coasts of the Adriatic sea. I was in Otranto in 1991 welcoming the refugees, the first Albanians who arrived. I know what it means to be there and be unprepared: you have to welcome them in the right way, they come cold; you find yourself in situations that are not known to most people. It would also be appropriate to provide information in this respect to operators, both those involved in first aid and the Forces of Order, who are also in the condition of reception. Often there is also a confrontation with the problem of infections. You can see these people on the dock with masks on their faces and gloves; but they are not the latex gloves that can protect them: something more is needed. Means and structures are needed. In addition to the primary reception there is also the secondary reception: they must respect their religions, their ways of life. On the other hand, if we went to their countries we would demand the same respect. I therefore believe that this is a great bet that involves the European States and that we must consider these phenomena in a reasoned way, respecting diversity, and constantly identify and counter critical situations, but above all the mafia and crime related to this phenomenon. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u40	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I cannot fail to acknowledge the total disinterest of the Government, I say this with respect for the blameless Undersecretary present, in relation to this parliamentary debate. The President of the Council is not present, but I understand that because he is engaged abroad, the Minister of the Interior is not present and I will say a little bit because he is not present, there is not the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Delrio has deposed and has left. The first consideration I would like to make, therefore, is the Government's offensive attitude towards Parliament on a subject of great delicacy. It's a form of arrogance we won't forget. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Comaroli.]] The problem, however, is not so much that the government disowned Parliament, but that in turn does not count for anything in the international context. I call upon our initiative, with the motion tabled by our Group, and the similar motion tabled by the Group of the North League, to have forced this debate, which has produced results, as I shall say shortly. If it is true that the representative of the Government has deposed and has gone to do damage elsewhere after expressing the opinion contrary to our motion, he has had in substance, as the motion tabled by the majority also shows, to take note of the failure of the Mare nostrum operation. The President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs Casini used a verb in the past, "was" referring to the intervention Mare nostrum. We are already beginning to talk about it in the past because we realize that this cannot go on. Mr Delrio himself spoke a moment ago about the need to overcome this operation. The motion tabled by the majority, which our Group will not vote on, because what we are asking for is the immediate blocking of this mission, notes that it must be overcome, and makes an important statement which calls for the UN to intervene with deliberations because the international community must intervene in Libya in order to manage this epochal phenomenon. Our pressing, our denouncing the inadequacy of this action is therefore causing reactions. Even if the government is not actually present, it will be realized today when 2,000-3,000 more people arrive. As we move on to dealing with problems and what is not working, Frontex does not exist, it must be made clear. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This phantom European structure does nothing. Where are Frontex's ships? Where are the volunteers? There'll be some dinghy spread, but nothing more. Reclaiming the establishment of the Frontex headquarters in Italy does not move us, as Minister Alfano often says, because Frontex does not exist. It would also like to be located in Lampedusa, an island of which an instrumental use is made, but Lampedusa is not a stage for reality shows, but it is a piece of Italy that has often been abandoned to its destiny. We therefore denounce here that Frontex does not exist and does not work as it should, that the European Union turns its face to the other side. President Napolitano said yesterday that he was proud of Italy that he did not turn his face on the other side. Very well, but it is the European Union and the UN that turn their faces on the other side, who do not give a damn about this humanitarian tragedy that is taking place in the Mediterranean. We are also grateful to the Navy and thank you for the commitment you are supporting, but we do not agree with this operation. Dear Minister Mauro, it was a sudden choice to start Mare nostrum, which transformed this operation into a taxi for anyone arriving. You favored the traffickers, who cash their criminal gain by taking the money from the desperate and then alerting themselves our Navy, to whom they deliver the illegals. They make money and we take the illegals to Italy. There are no adequate funds, there is no point in me quoting figures. Only in Taranto in the last few days have they arrived between 2,000 and 3,000 people a day. We do not see the images, which you will remember, of the mass landings from Albania in 1991 just because we send them a little 'to Pozzallo, a bit 'to Taranto, a little' to Trapani, and therefore there is no overall image, but they are thousands of people. Where are the funds? Where's the money? Who supports the municipalities? Even the story of minors: we are all moved in front of minors. But then what? They're taken to reception centers, but the municipalities don't have the money. The state doesn't even allocate money to assist minors and municipalities so they don't have the resources. There is therefore a total demagogy. They will say that they are desperate and that we are racist. Absolutely. Italy has welcomed and welcomed millions of foreigners. But if a person knocks on our door and is hungry, we must welcome her. If five or ten of them arrive instead of one, we must welcome them. But what if 2,000 arrives in a family's house? Today with this situation, absent government gentlemen - I am speaking to the government that is not there - Africa is full of desperate people. Do we welcome them all? Does our Navy transport them all to Italy? Can Italy be the landing place of all despair? Then we have to change politics. I want to claim in this House the rightness of the Berlusconi government's doubts in the face of the conflict in Libya (it was 2011) for energy and other interests. Sarkozy and Cameron - in Italy also President Napolitano supported the military adventure - wanted that war. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] Not to mention Obama's mistakes in North Africa. He wrote Venturini on the "Corriere della Sera" from a few weeks ago that he could have predicted the following. I am a direct witness (I was the Leader in the last legislature) to Berlusconi who told us that that war could be a danger and that Gaddafi was a dictator, but the next involved risks. The Berlusconi Government and Berlusconi themselves had foreseen this. But it was said that he was opposed to the intervention because friend Gaddafi, who came with the Amazons in Italy. He actually said that because, with more lucidity, he predicted the disaster that would occur in Libya, which has names and surnames. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] I also say this to President Napolitano, who will meet next Wednesday the Supreme Defence Council of which he is President for his function. We made some resounding mistakes, which Berlusconi tried to avoid, not for friendships, but because he knew what would happen, because Italy receives energy supplies from Libya, because if that country had collapsed the despairs would have poured into Italy, which is the first port for those who leave from those ports without control. Then perhaps they go elsewhere, in Germany or Sweden. Meanwhile, they pass through Italy. There are several failures, that of Frontex and that of the wrong war in Libya. Then the illusion of Arab Springs, with its consequences in Libya and also in Egypt: six months the military command and six months the fundamentalists. There are death sentences and more and no one says anything. Then there are also persecutions. We are in solidarity with those who are persecuted in Syria and elsewhere. On the contrary, we believe that the massacre of so many Christians in so many places in Asia and Africa is underestimated, but it is not mentioned, perhaps because it is not politically correct to denounce the horrors of fundamentalism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] We have also seen the images of the crucifixes in Syria and are ready to welcome the refugees in proportion. Europe has 28 countries. Everyone welcomes them in proportion to the number of its inhabitants. The international community is making refugee camps. The majority motion speaks of this. Well, we're interested in point 3, but you have to change the register. We called for the immediate blockade of Mare nostrum because only a traumatic event can put the international community in front of its responsibilities. As long as we're taxis, that's not the sea nostrum, but the exact opposite. The international community, yes, dear President Napolitano, will turn its face on the other side and will throw this drama on Italian mayors and on Italian health. We have seen the military, the healthy carriers of tuberculosis and the cases of scabies. It is the World Health Organization that says so. There is also a health emergency that needs to be addressed. But do you plan to solve problems of hunger and misery in the third and fourth worlds with the Navy that transports everyone to Italy? This is racist cynicism... [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] . . because it is a crude way to face an epochal drama. Then let us have this debate, a contentious and fugitive government, which has forced the majority to vote on the problem. President Casini, even today we have read on the "Corriere della Sera" the article of a journalist who is a bit the spokesperson of the Group of the New Right Centrostra who announces of the "mals" of belly. Perhaps Alfano did not come here to tell the government that his policy is wrong. Well, there is a point where the Minister of the Interior and the other groups in the majority will also have to tell the truth more clearly. You have taken a small step forward, but so you cannot proceed. The right motion to defend Italy's interests and rights is ours. You won't vote for it, but we're right. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and LAG Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u43	TONINI (PD). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, fellow senators, in line with what was stated earlier by Mr Delrio, we shall vote in favour of the majority motion tabled with colleagues from the forces supporting the Renzi Government. With the proposed changes, we will vote in favour of some other motions, starting with that of the 5 Star Movement, while, although with a bit of regret, we will vote firmly against the motions having as first signatories Senator Gasparri and Senator Bitonci. Mr Gasparri has just debated with the alleged absence of the Government, which is not only present, because there is the Undersecretary for relations with Parliament, but it has been so throughout the general discussion through one of its highest representatives, the Undersecretary for the Presidency of the Council of Delrio, to indicate the collegiality of the Government's commitment to an issue which is, together, the responsibility of foreign policy, defence policy and security policy, and which therefore invests the role of the Government in its collegiality. Therefore, I believe that the Government has not only had great respect for Parliament, but has said important things, such as those we heard just now from the Undersecretary Delrio. Then, as in the parliamentary rite, the last word is for the Groups, because this is the case in Parliament, and therefore for the individual senators with the vote that we will soon have. Let's go to the substance of the matter. In our motion three fundamental statements are made, on which we agree and on which we have pushed and pushed the Government to a more decisive and demanding action. The first fundamental point is to firmly claim the moral and political value of the Mare nostrum mission. Politics is also moral, politics is also something that has to do with fundamental ethical principles, and one of them, I would like to say a principle of civilization, is that if someone at sea risks dying there is a duty to go and help him. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Susta and Buemi.]] To pass these columns of Hercules, as hypocritically ask us the motions Gasparri and Bitonci, means to open the path of horror to which politics has exposed itself throughout the twentieth century. When one looks indifferently at human tragedies of this magnitude, nothing horrible is precluded from politics. And we do not want to go back to the politics of the twentieth century, for which no horror was foreclosed. For us there is a border beyond which we cannot go, and the border is the dignity of human people: if there are people in danger it is our precise duty not to turn our heads on the other side - as President Napolitano has rightly claimed - but to help them, to put on the field the greatest and strongest means we have, those of our Navy, to help those who are risking to die. We have seen on television our soldiers cry for not being able to save a child: this is the Italy of which we are proud [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Susta and Buemi]] , Italy that knows how to cry in front of a child who loses his life, and knows how to cry a military. Your dear colleague, Mr Gasparri, dear colleague Divina, is a hypocritical position, because it says: We stop the Mare nostrum mission! Too bad there's an immediate question: and then, what happens? [[Applause from the PD Group]] To stop the mission Mare nostrum is to say that the sea returns to do its job, the sea returns to decimate the people who come to us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is the hypocrisy of your position, because if there are no ships to save the shipwrecked there is only the sea, and the sea brings children to the bottom, it does not keep them afloat. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and SCPI groups and Senator Buemi. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]] This is the first point of our motion. Then there is a second point: we want Europe to do more, as the whole of this House wants us to do. We are Europeans, and so we would like a Europe in which the issue of asylum and citizenship becomes a European issue. We have not heard either from my colleague Gasparri or my colleague Divine words of self-criticism compared to those who have pervicaciously wanted the issue of asylum to remain a national issue. It has been said: we must defend the value of national sovereignty and therefore the issue of asylum must remain the exclusive prerogative of the States. We are now crying, but yours is a crocodile cry, ladies and gentlemen, because instead we should have fought together for asylum to become and become a Community issue. And now, with whom do you plan to take a step forward on this path? With Mrs. Le Pen? Do you, dear friends of the League, think that Mrs Le Pen will be willing to say yes to Europe's competence on the issue of asylum? Maybe Salvini didn't notice, because he was rightly campaigning in Italy, but Mrs Le Pen's slogan was 'Not in Brussels, oui à la France', that is 'No in Brussels, yes in France', and not 'Yes in Europe'. So, do you want more Europe or more national states? We want Europe to be more important about things, and that is why we are Europeans! [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PI groups and the Torrisi and Buemi senators.]] We cannot accept lessons from those who are nationalists during the week and then it turns out that they want more Europe on Sundays when they say that Europe is not there. Europe is us! So either we ask for more Europe or we ask for fewer: agree and tell us once and for all whether you want more Europe or not. We want more, and we have the credibility to demand more commitment from Europe precisely because we have Mare nostrum, at this moment, who is doing his duty to the very end. One last issue concerns Libya, and it will be the central issue of our foreign policy from now on. We have heard words of regret from my colleague Gasparri for the great dictator Gaddafi, the one who was greeted with all the honours by President Berlusconi. Well, I mean, I don't share this regret, not even on the issue of immigration, and for two reasons: the first has to do with the heart and the second with the brain. The question about the heart is that when we decided to let Gaddafi do the dirty work, even in this case with hypocrisy we pretended not to see how Gaddafi solved the problem of preventing the access of refugees and refugees to the Libyan coast. Let us pretend that we do not see: do you know what is the corollary of this great decision of farsightedness by statesmen? The corollary - and this is the second reason - was that UNHCR, the UN, was prevented from going to Libya because, with the consent of Italy at the time, Libya did not want an agreement with the UN to deal with the issue of refugees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u44	You should finish, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u45	TONINI (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. We preferred Gaddafi's outstanding methods to the UNHCR and UN method. That is not the case in Morocco, because Spain and Morocco have wanted UNHCR, and now they have a rational management of immigration flows. But we did not want that solution, and now we are crying because the UN is not there? We are fighting for the UN to be there, and our Government will lead the UN and Europe to deal with this issue with intelligence and civilisation. [[Live applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u46	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 244. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 244. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 244, 249, 270, 271, 272 and 273 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 249. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 249. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 244, 249, 270, 271, 272 and 273 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 270. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 270, tabled by Senator Battista and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 244, 249, 270, 271, 272 and 273 presidents. I ask the representative of the Government whether, in relation to motion 271, he confirms his opinion or intends to accept the new reformulations proposed by Senator Donno.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u47	I confirm the opinion that has already been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u48	Senator Donno, do you accept the government's request for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u49	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u50	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 271 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 271 (text 2), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 244, 249, 270, 271, 272 and 273 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 272. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 272. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 244, 249, 270, 271, 272 and 273 presidents. On motion 273, the Government proposed some rewordings. I ask Senator Scavone if he intends to accept the proposed reformulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u51	Madam President, the government is asking us to change... [[Undersecretary Scalfarotto points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u52	Mr Scalfarotto, would you like to recall the proposals for reformulation already put forward?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u53	I confirm the opinion that has already been expressed. If there are any changes that Senator Scavone wants to illustrate, I am ready to listen to them and express an opinion accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u54	Excuse me, Mr Undersecretary: some requests for reformulation had been made by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u55	Mr Scalfarotto, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u56	Perhaps they need to be remembered, so that Senator Scavone can decide whether or not to accept them. In summary, at the first point of the commitments, it is proposed to replace the words "to modify the management modalities of the Mare Nostrum operation, strengthening the local prefectures" with the others: "to strengthen the local prefectures and territorial Commissions." Furthermore, it is proposed to delete the second point of the device, as its content appears to be contrary to the Dublin III Regulation. If you accept these changes, Senator Scavone, the opinion is in favour, otherwise it would be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u57	Madam President, I accept the proposal to reword the first point of the commitments as follows: 'to strengthen the local prefectures and territorial committees'. On the other hand, I cannot accept the deletion of the second point of the device. I proposed a rewording, because that is the crux of our motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u58	I understand, but the government has taken a stand on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u59	SCAVONE (GAL). In fact, I asked for the floor to ask the government to reconsider its position with respect to a new wording. It is true that there is the Dublin III constraint, which the Government overcame. I recall, however, that the Dublin III constraint is the solution to a condescension... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scavone, you should propose the new wording. SCAVONE (GAL). The wording I propose is as follows: "to implement, also using the Presidency role of the European Semester, any useful initiative that, by overcoming the constraints of Dublin III, allows for the issue of a "humanitarian visa" and a transport organisation that directly involves the responsibility of Europe."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u60	I would ask the government representative if he accepts the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u61	No, Madam President: I confirm the previous opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 273. PETROCELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of motion 273, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u65	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I asked for the floor after reading the news of purges in the Democratic Party Group on its representation in the First Permanent Commission (Constitutional Affairs) during the debate on a very important measure, namely constitutional reform. We know that the parliamentary groups have the opportunity to postpone their presence in the Commissions, but it has never happened in the history of this institution - and I do not believe in that of the other branch of Parliament - that during the debate of a measure, because of the dissent on it, replacements take place. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on those who must move out of this House to do so quickly in order to allow the intervention to take place. Otherwise, under these conditions, it seems difficult to me. Please continue, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u67	The Regulation provides, for example, for the possibility of temporarily replacing a senator for the entire duration of the measure. The examination of the measure, however, has begun: there have been hearings and a long general discussion has taken place. Now, when we have arrived at the time of the vote, there is the purification of some members of the Commission for the specific reason that they disagree with the decisions of their Group. I believe that this concerns the representativeness of this institution. Surely, if it had been done by someone else in the past, there would have been shouts to the coup, to the dictatorship. We do not shout at the coup and dictatorship, but we are concerned about the authoritarian management of a faculty given by the Rules of Procedure. I believe, however, that there is really a problem of representation. This is not a party body, but it is a body in which each member exercises his mandate under Article 67 of the Constitution and without a mandate. If such a practice is accepted, any dissent is relegated to the Chamber alone. This is absolutely contrary to the principle laid down in the Constitution that the measures are discussed in the Commission and in this House, and just as there must be room for dissent in this House there must also be room for dissent in the Commission. I believe that this issue should be addressed in this House, with the participation of all the parliamentary groups. It is useless that yesterday we were shocked by the expulsions from the M5S Group, when we then adopt an even worse practice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u70	Mr Corsini (PD). Madam President, I am going to read a short text which, for the time being, is signed by thirteen Senators and Senators of the PD, with a small personal premise. In my land he lived in very dark times, absolutely not comparable to those of today, an unknown parish priest, who then Paul VI made cardinal, one of the summits of the Christian spirituality of the twentieth century, Father Giulio Bevilacqua, who, in a very well-known text, wrote verbatim that "the ideas are valid for what they cost, not for what they make." [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The statement is this: The removal of Senators Chiti and Mineo from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, decided yesterday by the Presidency of the Parliamentary Group of the PD, represents in fact an purge of the ideas considered unorthodox by the process of formation of the most important of the laws, the constitutional law. In essence, this is a clear violation of Article 67 of our fundamental Charter. A less free Parliament does not increase citizens' freedom. We therefore call on the Presidency of the Parliamentary Group to make the necessary and urgent clarification before the Assembly on Tuesday 17 June. In the meantime, the undersigned senators are self-employed by the PD Parliamentary Group [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC]] , and they feel that they are proposing this statement because of the fact that this choice clearly has repercussions on the progress of work in this House. Senators Casson, Chiti, Corsini, D'Adda, Dirindin, Gatti, Lo Giudice, Micheloni, Mineo, Cucchetti, Ricchiuti, Tocci, Turano subscribe to this statement. For the time being. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u73	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, it is difficult to speak after this speech, but I think it is also up to us to say a word, given that the 5 Star Movement has been wrongly called into question and in fact absolutely ludicrous compared to what the Constitutional Charter is about today. We saw yesterday the hypocrisy of Matteo Renzi minimize the government's rejection of the civil responsibility of the magistrates and say: we will repair the Senate, it is a storm in a glass of water. This is the consideration that Renzi has of internal dissent. And this is also the consideration that has of the coherence and transparency of the action, because it forgets that bicameralism, Renzi, is tampering with it. He said about the amendment against mayors against slot machines: we will fix it in the House. He says today, we're gonna get the Senate. But the Senate wants to take away any chance of intervening. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Moreover, these reforms, the cornerstones of democracy, are agreeing and settling with a condemned man. The electoral law, the adoption of the basic text in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was decided with a telephone call between Renzi and Berlusconi. And still today we are waiting for the reform debate to start again, perhaps after it comes back from Kazakhstan and will have quailed its direct agreement with the fallen Berlusconi. Well, at this point we cannot but denounce the authoritarian drift that is being consumed, that even comes to remove the uncomfortable people, that nothing else has said except what is reiterated by eminent constitutionalists, namely that the only text, the only reform that can not be done, that makes no sense, is what Renzi would like to impose. At this point I welcome the Senators of the Democratic Party who have had the courage to keep their backs straight. I regret that for the time being this is limited to a few signatures, because perhaps we would have had another story in this legislature if there had been more responsibility and frankness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u76	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, unlike the previous speakers, our group's senators want to escape the temptation to anticipate, out of time and out of place, the debate on constitutional reform. We must, however, point out that the speeches by Mr Malan and Mr Corsini pose a major general problem. Their words and behavior honor them and their Group. (Many senators present in the hemicycle converse with each other.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask colleagues who stop in the hemicycle to flow or to be silent. Comrade (NCD). So much so that, as we have had before to point out in this House, on various occasions on the part of the President of the Senate, there is a granitic deafness to the issues and guarantees of parliamentary freedom. It may be that the real way of asserting the independence and autonomy of the individual Member of Parliament is to resort, as I believe Mr Corsini has done on behalf of others, to having to change the Group's membership, but the tumultuous events this week in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the relationship between the Presidency of the Senate and the Presidency of the Groups, reveal an intolerable insensitivity on the part of this House and on the part of each of us as individual senators. We therefore ask you, as a matter of urgency, to submit to the Presidency the profiles that have been raised in a debate that would have been better not to do, but that once we get to this House deserves all the attention that the issues of freedom deserve in a parliamentary Chamber, and that is what we consider, and we hope that it should also be considered after the reform, the Senate Chamber. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u77	Senator Compañera, I believe that the presidency of the Senate will assess these facts, verifying their profiles of a general and regulatory nature or to verify if they stick to dynamics that, although of general importance, fall within the framework of individual parliamentary groups. It will therefore be a test to be carried out by the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u80	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I express all my political solidarity to the senators who have been removed and to the senators who have now signed this open letter. I am really sorry, Mr President, that this issue, which has to do with the freedom of every senator and every individual Member of Parliament, is underestimated: we are all a little less free. Yesterday I put the subject firmly during the hypocritical debate on the resignation of Mrs Bignami and Mr Mussini. I raised the issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where Senator Mauro was removed, always because of the so-called dissent. [[Brusio]] I'm sorry about this buzz, but I also understand how complicated the moment is. We cannot underestimate what is happening. Respect for Article 67 of the Constitution is at stake here. Yesterday I asked for President Grasso to guarantee the freedom of senators to express their dissent and their opinion. This is particularly serious, because it is clear that the Presidency of the Democratic Party Group was the executioner of an order given by the Head of Government. We're talking about not just any bill. We are talking about the most sensitive issue, where the procedure is substance, that is, the constitutional revision. This question, Madam President, cannot be treated as a simple verification of compliance with the regulations. There is a very serious violation, and I appeal to all the senators to realize that if this issue is not properly considered and is not withdrawn from what has happened, it really is the freedom of all. Among other things, Madam President, we cannot devote only one meeting of the Conference of Leaders to this issue. It deserves a debate in this House, because we cannot continue to work in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this climate of threats and intimidation. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u83	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, reforms must be done in Parliament, not in closed rooms or in private talks. This is because it is a guarantee for the citizens that the reforms, which concern everyone, are analysed by all Members with every resource of their own intelligence, of their own science and of their own will. This means that every Member of Parliament must make their own contribution to these reforms. And that means you can't see the Group as a united side, as a whole equal side. I would like to express my appreciation for the courage of my colleagues, Mr Chiti and Mr Mineo, and for the courage of my colleagues who have signed this letter. It is, in fact, with this kind of behaviour that the freedom of parliamentarians and the very essence of the parliamentary system are truly safeguarded, which sees in every Member of Parliament, in the courage and autonomy of every Member of Parliament, its strength. Come on, with these reforms, she wants to be reduced and faded. That is why we, in addition to expressing the solidarity I have already mentioned, give every support and ask the other Senators of the Democratic Party Group to consider, not only the merit of what they are voting for, but also the importance of the opinion of each of them in the future of all the Italian citizens who look to Parliament as the source of the changes to the Constitution, and not to the Government or to a political party. A political party that has had a great success in these last elections, but has not had it for constitutional reforms, but for contingent political reasons that have little to do with the Constitution. It's right that we tell each other. And I repeat that it is right that we should make it clear that the revision of the Constitution must be carried out in Parliament by Members of Parliament who are free under Article 67 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u86	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all I think that in this House few times we have witnessed moments of this tension, but also of this political value. What Mr Corsini has said and read must make us all think about the political season we are about to face. What has happened has a strong and sour smell of purging, which we have known, or rather of which we may have read in history books. What happens in a Parliament, which is still called a democratic parliament if there is no full alignment with party directives? (Some PD Senators speak to Senator Corsini.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Warriors, if you can keep your voice down. DIVINE (LN-Aut). They don't bother, ma'am. Then it comes to wonder, when we commemorate the high moments of our Republic, where we remember victims and blood shed to conquer freedom of conscience, what has been done and whether we are worthy heirs of those who wrote these fundamental principles of our Republic in stone. But we're not that silly that we can't see drawings. Yesterday something very serious happened, when the Premier allowed himself to say, after a democratic vote of a House: Don't worry, because I'll fix it. I am talking about the vote on the civil liability of judges, whose content is of little interest to us, but it seems so much that this President-in-Office of the Council has sought this obstacle, almost as if he wanted to exploit it: "Look, magistrates, for I have promised the country the reform of justice, if you do not comply with my plan..." The threat is: 'Parliament would have already decided, and I would let it vote as it voted yesterday.' Then we add that we are preparing to face the electoral law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Divine. DIVINE (LN-Aut). It is an electoral law that does not see the slightest participation of the elector, because they want lists closed and prepacked by the leaders of the party. One question, and I have really finished, Mr President, do you want this Parliament finally to be put in the hands of a handful of faithful who follow the wishes of their leaders? I leave this question open, because it seems that this is the path we are going to take. DEL BARBA (PD). What about the Porcellum? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You're Porcellum's son, remember that! DEL BARBA (PD). You made the Porcellum!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u87	Colleagues, there will be ways and locations to address the issue, which will however also be put to the attention of the President of the Senate, who will carry out the necessary insights.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u90	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are very few of you left, but I think everyone cares. I don't know how many of you have seen the movie "We just have to cry" with Benigni and Troisi. I remember a scene in which Troisi is on the terrace; he passes a friar underneath and says to him: "Remember that you must die!" He remains perplexed and responds "Mo' I sign it to me. Why do I say that? Since September 13, 2013, more than a year ago, 79,000 signatures collected for the proposal of the popular law have been unheard of in the Chamber of Deputies. Also the Senate was deposited the same bill by Senator Palermo, on March 19, 2014, to which, among other things, I and other senators have signed and which is assigned to the Commissions justice and hygiene and health. It is my belief that any proposal for a law of popular initiative must be discussed reasonably quickly, respecting the sovereignty of the people and the civic commitment of the signatories. Constitutional reform - which has been discussed today - should provide an opportunity to establish obligations for the legislator. There are not a few corrective amendments tabled to this constitutional reform with which a maximum time is proposed within which a bill of popular initiative must be discussed and voted on. I myself have tabled amendments to this effect, and I hope that they, beyond the confusion within the Commission, will be able to agree. If every bill of popular initiative deserves the attention of the legislator, we should feel it all the more urgent when the object of the bill proposed by the citizens concerns an issue that involves the suffering of people and their loved ones, and involves a reflection on civil rights. If it is not for four sick people to commit suicide every day, then perhaps we can wait for the constitutional reform, which I see far away in time. I therefore believe that this problem must be tackled much earlier, partly because President Napolitano, in an open letter of 18 March, drew Parliament's attention to the extreme conditions of thousands of terminal patients. Maybe we can keep putting it off, but I don't think we should. I think it needs to be discussed here and now. Parliament cannot ignore this issue. Worse than denying a right is ignoring the request. I am a nurse and, as such, I could tell you many situations that I have experienced of terminal and not terminal patients who have nevertheless expressed the desire to put an end to their lives. I think this is a very important issue to be addressed, so I would ask the Presidents of the relevant Commissions to ensure that this bill is discussed in the Commission. [[Applause from the Misto-ILCe Group of Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-261.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.40 a.m.
