ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 17,03 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u6	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Silvano Andriani, Senator of the Republic, esteemed representative of the Italian left and a worthy scholar of economic policy, has failed. We join in the emotion that the President of the Republic expressed yesterday with affectionate words full of vivid memories. A few hours ago, in Tor Vergata he was greeted by his friends who were still dismayed by the unexpected news. By his will nothing had been known of the disease and no word was uttered in the burning chamber. He also sought in death that reflective sobriety that accompanied him in life. Both in private and in public Silvano has always managed to put into creative tension all the differences between backwardness and sociability, between necessity and beauty, between rigor and invention, between party coherence and that libertarian spirit that in youth had drawn from the source of Lelio Basso. Maybe he wouldn't have wanted my memorial, either. I almost feel his reproach as I speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, but I think it is worth, even more in these difficult times, honoring the memory of a political man who has served the country with wisdom, foresight and honesty. Silvano Andriani represented the Italian Communist Party in this Senate Chamber, always seeking a fair confrontation with other political parties. Its debates in the Budget Committee, with then Minister Beniamo Andreatta: so different from each other for the cultural matrix and for the roles of majority and opposition, yet so close for the same curiosity about the change of the country. The eighties ran, that decade of passage between a resumption of productive vitalism and the conservatism of financial oligarchy. Andriani knew how to grasp the links between industrial policy and the financial dimension, not only in parliamentary activity, but above all in the research activity of the Cespe, which under its direction led to the growth of a new generation of economists. This attention to the links allowed him to anticipate, before others, in the years 2000, the great crisis that still holds us. It is impressive to reread today his book, published in 2006, on the rise of finance, in which - precisely - he predicts a year in advance the crisis, precisely starting from the real causes that concern the excess of inequality and the private debt, which pallates on the public one. The same attitude, in the seventies, as manager of the Tuscan PCI, helped him to overcome the paradigm of backwardness and to see the birth of new industrial districts. Crossing the studies of the school of Becattini, a virtuous circulation was created between entrepreneurial invention, social cohesion, cultural elaboration and local politics. Something similar happened also in the white regions of the third Italy and this economy of the territory was perhaps our most admired innovation in the world: so true reforms are made in Italy, never by edict, always when a policy conscious of not being able to do everything alone helps the reformers who, in society, already are doing something good. In curiosity for the districts he did not veil his macroeconomic formation, matured in the great programming season at the time of the economic miracle. He had studied at the school of Claudio Napoleoni and Svimez, then a window open to the world, from which entered the fresh air of the reformism of the New Deal and the Scandinavian experience. He had begun his militancy in the CGIL, which in those days - perhaps today's young people do not know - had a reformist culture more advanced than PCI itself. I remember when Silvano told me about those years, his eyes glowed, not for a decadent nostalgia. He knew well that the objectives and techniques of that programming were not and are not absolutely feasible in today's world, but, in order to give a new ambition to Italy, he said, we would need so much to rebuild that intellectual and political energy that was created then in the encounter between the best cultural resources of the Country: from the Catholicism of Pasquale Saraceno, to the socialist reformism of Riccardo Lombardi, to the technicians formed by Francesco Saverio Nitti, much more passionate of today's technocrats, up to the popular sensitivity of a Giuseppe Di Vittorio (his Work Plan had returned in Silvano's last writings, not as a consolation, but as a thought for the future). I retain with great affection his last e-mail: he recommended not to close us on the defensive as Italian left, but - indeed - to propose us a new idea of the company, no longer based only on the value of shareholders, but fully responsible with respect to all stakeholders, workers first of all, consumers and environmental quality. Above all, he always invited us to read the economy as a historical and social science, which not only serves to do homework, but to map out a new path for the destiny of Italy and Europe. He was always ahead and we couldn't always keep up with him. From here, perhaps, misunderstandings have come and, perhaps, lacked recognition for its value. Let us then greet Silvano Andriani with a certainty, a doubt and a commitment. With the certainty that he loved him well; with the doubt that he did not fully understand him; with the commitment to try again in his thought and to point out to young people his example as a man who honored Italian politics and culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u7	Senator Tocci, the presidency joins his memory and mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u10	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday I asked President Grasso to intercede so that Senator Puglia, a member of the Commission, could be present with us today, suspended, like myself and nine other colleagues, for the facts concerning the vote of confidence at the unblocking of Italy. President Grasso made himself available - and I thank him for that - but it was not in his power to intervene, as he was a faculty at the head of the Presidency Council. I would like to point out to the House that two Members will be missing today (I have returned today, together with my other colleagues who had seven days of suspension), who could contribute to the debate and, above all, then vote on the jobs act (or rather, vote on the confidence that Minister Poletti has already said would be placed). However, unfortunately, the 5 Star Movement - which, I remember, was the political force most voted in Italy in the political elections - will have to do without it. This is a gravely damaging act of democracy in this Parliament. Moreover, our suspensions on the subject were discussed in a Presidency Council where there was no member, the only member of ours (because unfortunately we have never been recognized as a Secretary, to whom perhaps we would be entitled), Senator Laura Bottici, detained - as we had already said - in Carrara for reasons of force majeure, given the flood. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Please listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, because it is important. Very heavy penalties were established, not least without at least one member of the Group being present. I am not talking about the fact that there is no precedent to the suspension, in my case, of a President of the Group; In fact, perhaps there was: my colleague, former chairman of the Group, Petrocelli, who was also suspended. It was also a Presidency Council in which officials were voted for this Senate, always without the 5 Star Movement being present. It is a very hard act in the face of a battle that, I believe, has affected everyone; a battle that we have waged on the unblocking of Italy, which is in favour of this Parliament and democracy, not of the 5 Star Movement. We have, in fact, taken this sanction because we have opposed a terrifying process, which we are obliged to do, which is to completely overcome the rights to legislate and to exclude this Parliament from democratic rights. That decree-law - as you know - came to this House by blocking the work of the Commission and putting trust. It's shameful! We did that battle for everyone, as Mr Tocci, who is still here, had the chance to remember. It is a battle against the arrogance of a government in which too many Members of Parliament have lowered their heads. This is unacceptable! [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] From today I have returned, together with my colleagues, and we will begin again this battle, which is for the country, not for the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You should thank us for this and be indignant about it too! I have ten fingers: to one of these I will tie this episode, because the 5 Star Movement will not forget it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1428-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Ichino, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues in front of the Commission to allow Senator Ichino to carry out the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u12	Mr President, the clear demands of the economy of our work lead me to omit a new full presentation of the bill that returns from the House of Deputies to the Senate. I would like to refer briefly, as well as to our work at the first reading, to the report I carried out at the third reading in the Commission, where I gave an analytical account of the changes made to the draft law by the other side of Parliament. In this context, I confine myself to a few general remarks and some clarifications on the most important amendments adopted by the House. The amendments have basically confirmed, first of all, the first fundamental understanding that moves the entire bill, in the sense of moving from a labour system characterised by profound disparities in protection, generating that dualism of protection which has been repeatedly reproached by the European Union over recent years, to a new order tending instead to the universality of application of the measures necessary to correct the distortions of the labour market; a market still characterized, in its broad areas, by asymmetries and imbalances of contractual power between the parties. The other fundamental understanding of this measure, in the sense of the transition from the old system, is also confirmed by the work of the other branch of Parliament, in order to defend the person who works from the labour market, avoiding it as much as possible from having to pass through it, to a system of protection instead tending to defend it in the market, in particular in the transition from the old occupation to a new one. The transition from the job property paradigm to the flexicurity paradigm, which began with the 2012 reform, is now being completed with a new structure of the protective system that aims essentially to combine the maximum possible flexibility of the productive structures, indispensable for the competitiveness of our enterprises in the globalized economy, with the maximum possible economic and professional security of the people who work in them. Safety that must be given essentially by the effective freedom of movement in the market, guaranteed to all by a modern and European level unemployment insurance system, closely linked with effective assistance services in the search for new employment. These objectives are addressed by the three pillars of the reform, consisting respectively of the new rules on social shock absorbers, market services and labour contract discipline, in particular their dissolution. In the field of social shock absorbers, the most important change is the addition to paragraph 2 (a) (1) of the adjective "definitive" to the expression "cessation of company activity". It is confirmed, therefore, the limitation of the intervention of the Cassa Integrazione gains only to the cases of temporary cessation, or of suspension of the business with reasonable prospect of resumption of the activity itself, therefore of the job of the employees, within the term of duration of the intervention. It is confirmed, on the other hand, that in all other cases the state of effective unemployment of workers is not hidden through the fictitious suspension of employment relationships, as has been widely done in recent decades, but immediate activation of measures aimed at the quickest possible reintegration of the workers concerned into the productive fabric. In the area of employment services, the amendment to paragraph 4 n) adds to the aim of enhancing synergies between public and private services that of exploiting synergies with operators in the third sector, secondary, vocational and university education. This is certainly a welcome addition, provided that it is clear the specific role that the reform intends to give, in the new system of employment services, to companies specialised in the mediation between demand and supply of work accredited to the regions. The public employment function can and must also make the most of these enterprises. This is the objective to which the scheme of a new institute tends, that of the relocation contract - referred to in the same paragraph 4 (p), which provides for the free choice of the specialized agency accredited to the Region by the persons concerned and the remuneration of the service by means of regional vouchers, payable, for the most part, as a positive result obtained. To this scheme, the delegation law entrusts the task of: providing the unemployed with a service much more effective than the one they currently enjoy; returning to the centres for central use in the system, entrusting them with an irreplaceable role of zipper between users and service providers, whether they are managed by public entities or private subjects; allowing the effective activation of the conditionality of income support, already provided for by the current law, but now almost non-existent in the facts; carrying out a redevelopment of public expenditure in this sector since the inefficient operator will end, due to the result of the payment, with the automatic marginalization from the system. The initial part of paragraph 7, which provides for the adoption of a single simplified text of the legislation of national sources relating to the different types of employment contracts and to the conduct of the relevant reports, is not affected by any change in the subject matter of employment contracts, which is commonly referred to as the simplified labour code in the debate. I would just like to stress here the importance of making our legislative texts - particularly those governing legal relations involving tens of millions of people - in line with the guidelines issued by the European Union in the 2009 Decalogue for Smart Regulation and therefore - I also call on my distracted colleagues to pay attention, because this is not only about the subject of work - much easier to read by all those concerned than our legislation on work, sometimes incomprehensible to experts today; structured in such a way as to make the individual rules much more readily available than they are today in the hypertrophic and non-form congruity of stratified labour legislation over the course of almost half a century and too often dictated for the solution of individual cases, in a hurry of emergencies; written in such a way that they can be easily translated at least into the world of international trade, or in English. Almost half a century ago, such a work was possible. The 1970 Workers' Rights Statute, composed of 41 articles written in an extremely simple and understandable way by anyone, just issued was distributed by trade unions and business associations in millions of copies in every corner of the country and, within a few months, all interested parties were able to take direct knowledge of its essential contents. Today, the new simplified code of the work will have to make possible a similar operation, being characterized by the same conciseness, sharpness of structure, ease of reading and universality of the contents. Also to remove from our work order that Byzantine aspect, opaque, impenetrable that constitutes one of the most important obstacles - together with the tax pressure and inefficiencies of the administrations - to the attractiveness of Italy for foreign entrepreneurs carrying investments and avant-garde industrial plans. The most important amendment to paragraph 7 is that by virtue of which the permanent contract must be promoted as a 'common' form (an expression replacing the previous one: 'private') of an employment contract. This amendment offers the opportunity, as well as the positive basis, for a necessary clarification in response to questions that have been insistently raised in the debate over the last few weeks. The contract with increasing protection does not constitute a different contractual type than the ordinary contract of employment for an indefinite period, a new contractual type whose institution would contradict the understanding of the simplification underlying the whole measure. It is, however, only the expression by which the whole of the new rules on permanent relations intended to be established after the entry into force of the legislative decree implementing this part of the delegation are summarised. The partial difference in the discipline of these new relationships vis-à-vis the old is essentially reflected in the different technique of protecting the economic and professional security of the person who continuously draws most of his income from the relationship, thus being in a position of substantial dependence on the creditor of the benefit. This diversity of treatment is justified at the constitutional level, not because of the diversity of the contractual type - which, as has been said, does not exist - but mainly because of the obvious and very reasonable need to make the transition from the old to the new protection technique, guaranteeing to all those who are interested in the new services in the labour market. The implementation of the new system, which is intended to ensure intensive assistance to which those who lose their posts from now on will be entitled, will have a certain degree of graduality, which is perfectly compatible with the gradual expansion of the audience of its beneficiaries. Everyone knows, moreover, that constitutional jurisprudence, and not only that of Italy, has always legitimized the criterion of temporal succession as an acceptable criterion of differentiation of the difference of treatment between cases for the rest of the same, depending on a process of incisive reform of the matter. Thus we come to the far more important amendment, among those made to the draft law by the House at second reading: the one which clarifies the content of the new permanent contract with increasing safeguards, clarifying that the delegated legislator will have to regulate it, excluding for economic dismissals the possibility of reintegration of the worker into the workplace, providing for a certain and increasing economic compensation with the seniority of service and limiting the right to reinstate null and discriminatory dismissals and specific cases of unjustified disciplinary dismissal. This amendment clearly confirms and clarifies the legislator's understanding of overcoming the peculiarities of our system in the whole industrialised West, which has in fact been maintained even after the partial reform of the subject of 2012, consisting in a very wide application in this area of the sanction of reintegration. This sanction must now be excluded for all dismissals not supported by disciplinary dispute (individual for economic-organizational reasons or for poor objective performance, collective, temporarily ineffective for failure to exceed the period of illness behaviour) and for the generality of disciplinary dismissals. The area in which it should apply is only that of cases of nullity of dismissal specifically provided for by law - marriage, maternity and discrimination or retaliation - and in particular cases of unjustified disciplinary dismissal comparable in severity to discriminatory dismissal, although of course this is a different case. The law empowers the Government to establish the extent of the economic consequences of dismissal in relation to and correspondence with the length of service of the person concerned, with the intention of pursuing a harmonization of the sanctioning apparatus with respect to the other major European systems, which consists in synthesis - to put it in the language of the general theory of law - in the transition from a property rule to a liability rule. At the same time, however, the law-law bears responsibility - even here in line with the guidelines issued by the European Union - for creating the conditions for economic and professional prejudice to the person who loses a job to be reduced to a minimum, if not reset, by income support and assistance provided in the search for a new job. The amendment to point (f) of paragraph 7 refers instead to the new rules on remote control instruments - currently covered by Article 4 of the Workers' Statute - specifying that checks must be carried out on installations and working tools, not on persons. This confirms the intention of the legislator to adapt the current regulations - dictated in 1970, that is, at a time when there were no personal computers, no Internet, no business computer networks, no mobile phones, no less satellite tracking and control systems - to all these technological developments that make the remote connection an intrinsic function of all the new computer and telematic tools, normally used by companies: a function which is certainly not liable to be subject to a general rule of necessary prior bargaining in the trade union. On the other hand, the same new technologies open up new fronts of possible harming the right of persons to confidentiality, which require appropriate new regulation. A little more complex is the speech concerning the amendment to point (g) of paragraph 7, which, with reference to the extension of the area of application of unemployment insurance to those who have been the holder of a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract, provides for the addition of the words "up to their overrun." This amendment clearly does not allude to a current or future prohibition of self-employment contracts which have as their object a continuous activity over time (such as the contract linking a commercial agent, a condominium administrator, a company administrator, and examples could multiply indefinitely): such a prohibition, which overwhelmed all continuing autonomous collaborations, should be considered unconstitutional because of manifest unreasonableness; and in fact it is not provided for, neither for the immediate nor for the future, in any part of the bill. The addition of the words "up to their overcoming" must be understood as a reference to the reorganization and simplification of the discipline of contracts and employment relationships, to be fulfilled in the new single text of the subject: in this context, in the framework of a general redefinition of the boundaries of the employee's work area, may be arranged the "overtaking," precisely, of the particular contractual type of co-ordinated and continuous collaboration constituted by the contract of work to project and the attraction of all the cases of continuous collaboration characterized by the essential traits of economic dependence from the creditor in an area where some norms of labour law find selective application. The same technique of protection, respectful of the causal peculiarity of each contract figure, can also be adopted in relation to other types of contract in which the provision of personal work is deducted. In conclusion, I would just like to mention a report a few weeks ago on Italy's progress in correcting macroeconomic imbalances, in which the European Commission identifies, among the main reforms able to address the weaknesses of the Italian economic system, just this one that is currently under our review, and notes how it, moving in line with the reform of 2012, aims to reduce the segmentation of the labour market, to increase the outgoing flexibility and to create an integrated network of social shock absorbers. The Commission itself points out, however, that the effectiveness of the reform will depend essentially on the content and implementation of the implementing decrees, which must not betray the incisiveness of the initial design. This, therefore, from the day after the entry into force of the law-law, must be the priority commitment of the Government. To us, now, the task of finally approving this text as quickly as possible, to allow the first delegated decrees to see the light in sync with the law of stability, to which this bill is linked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u13	Thank you, Senator Ichino. I apologise, also on behalf of my fellow Members, for the buzz that accompanied your speech, and if this should continue in the debate on the preliminary rulings, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we immediately say that we are absolutely not satisfied with the content of this delegation, this reform of the labour market, so announced by Prime Minister Renzi and Minister Poletti, both in terms of content and in the method used. I would remind you that this is a delegation law, which therefore contains principles and guiding criteria which will then have to be contained in legislative decrees and on which, however, trust has been placed in the House. And already here in the Senate, in these hours, the news is circulating that the position of the umpteenth question of trust will also be repeated. This fact has a fundamental meaning, which we want to denounce immediately: a serious, participatory, constructive debate has been cut off, in fact, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, although we, also here, the first time we have dealt with the matter, tried to call the government on the importance of going slower, without the haste announced, in order to really lay the foundations of constructive reform. Instead, the participation of minority forces has been cut off, as we have also seen in these hours. We have tabled amendments in the Commission but, in fact, the measure is more than armored. And, in fact, the participation of the same majority forces has also been cut off. That is certainly not the way forward. As far as the substance is concerned (later I will indicate the reasons and technical profiles for which we believe that the measure is deeply flawed from the constitutional point of view), I immediately say that the response to the labour market is certainly not this delegation, the so-called jobs act. This is certainly not what we really need to do urgently to relaunch the labour market in our country. I do not know, Minister, if you have seen yesterday's figures, but I suppose so: unemployment is at 13.2%, a historical record; it has never been this high since 1977. An unemployment rate rising by 0.3 percentage points only compared to last month. Similarly, with regard to the unemployment rate of young people aged 15 to 24, it is 43.3% in October: this is a staggering figure, rising by 0.6% compared to last month, 1.9% more on an annual basis. In absolute terms, young people under 25 looking for work have reached 708,000, while the unemployed in our country, which are indeed increasing, are almost 3,500,000. In the last month alone there have been 90,000 more people seeking employment. Then we want to say it loudly: this reform does not allocate a euro for the revival of employment; nothing is done to lower taxes on businesses, which would encourage an increase in employment opportunities; nothing is being done to promote greater flexibility. Only political questions of principle have been raised to shift attention from the fact that the Government is unable to really address what it would be important to do. We will make a very technical presentation on constitutional profiles because we want to explain... [[Brusio.]] I ask my colleagues, especially the majority, to have a little decency to listen; I do not think that the PD in this House is very attentive to the subject of work. Mr President, can you draw the attention of my fellow Members? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You will see that, when I suspend the sitting, the attention of colleagues will be there. I would also like the Minister (who is present, and we are pleased to hear this) to listen. First, Article 76 of the Constitution states: The exercise of the legislative function may not be delegated to the Government except with the determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. With the measure at our examination, however, the Government wanted to invoke to itself a sort of delegation in white to legislate, cutting off - as I said - the parliamentary debate that, on the other hand, should have been expressed in a serious and constructive confrontation, preventing to bring in here those improvements that would have been necessary. Article 76 of the Constitution requires the delegation of the legislative function to be done for well specified objects, with circumscribed and determined criteria, to which the Government must then strictly abide in the issuing of delegated decrees. On the other hand, this draft law delegates a number of general delegations, without the requirement to define the object, with a list of principles and criteria so generic and inaccurate that it foreshadows a sort of delegation in white, therefore in clear violation of Article 76 of the Constitution. In addition to this profile of more general unconstitutionality, with regard to the content we note a constitutional violation of the first paragraph of Article 3, in terms of equal social dignity and equality before the law; and second paragraph, in the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of economic and social order, which prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. In fact, in article 1, paragraph 1, of the measure under consideration, assuming an extension of the scope of the ASPI to workers only with a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract, other figures of atypical workers, i.e. the precarious and the parasubordinate, are left out, to the face of the fact that this Government is concerned before the weakest sections of the population! We still have a violation of the principle of equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution to article 1, paragraph 7, letter c), of the provision, where it is expected, for new recruitments, the application of the so-called contract to increasing protections in relation to the seniority of service, which in fact can lead to a strong discrimination between workers; equally, again in paragraph 7, where the applicability of any minimum hourly compensation is limited to the only working relationships that have to do with a subordinate or coordinated and continuous collaboration, also in this case excluding the other contractual types in force. We then have a contrast with the legislative power of the Regions, pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution, where the revision of employment services is envisaged, and, equally, where the establishment of a National Employment Agency is envisaged, participated by the State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, where to bring together personnel and offices, also territorial, suppressed and reorganized. It is said that the whole will not entail new burdens on public finance, but in reality the financial resources that have already existed in the territorial authorities are indirectly linked and, above all, in clear contrast to the principle of financial autonomy granted to the regions, in accordance with Article 119 of the Constitution. Basically, once again, the government says it takes action to invest in a certain type of reform, going to fish the resources from the regions that still produce them a little bit. On the basis of these technical profiles, but also, as I have explained above, for the content and method used, we express an absolute opposition to the measure and invite the Assembly not to proceed with the examination of this draft law delegation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u15	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we call it jobs act, it almost sounds like a medicine, but the measure in our examination is not a medicine: at most it is a placebo, one of those fake remedies, which, however, suggest the patient, who for a while feels better. If we call it by its real name, i.e. delegation of work, this rule reveals all its littleness and constitutional vices that it hides. It will not produce work, if anything it will produce new labour standards. The aim was to fight against workers' protections for mere electoral interest, i.e. to pay an account to the centre-right partner. Small businesses, which are the fabric of the Italian economy, say that Article 18 does not create problems for them and so do medium-sized enterprises and multinationals. There are other problems that hinder investment and recruitment in Italy. Now the government has partially turned back on dismissal without just cause and the Democratic Party's internal opposition sings victory. But what victory? Listen to entrepreneurs: work is created if taxes such as IRAP are eliminated, which penalise investment and recruitment, but even more so if consumption starts again. Entrepreneurs tell us that if no one buys, they will fail with full warehouses. The 5 Star Movement has put forward proposals to suppress the IRAP, but they have always been rejected and, it has to be said, the financial cover had been ok by the Budget Commission. The former Undersecretary Fassina, who today is critical with the Government, just a year ago rejected our proposal to eliminate the IRAP for companies under the ten employees, and then even for those under the five employees: the money was there, but he said that the opposition was political. Renzi, whose government has always rejected our proposals and has only recently given the IRAP a little scissor. The real issue, however, is consumption: we are not talking about consumerism, but about the possibility of making essential expenses, which families no longer have. There are 303,000 families, more than a million people, below the poverty line. Europe has been asking us for years to introduce citizenship income, but, among those who aspire to be great nations, we are the only ones who have not introduced it. Today we have a strong card to play: citizenship income is finally scheduled in the Commission for work and we have the burden of responding to people, who ask whether it is true that it costs so much. Starting the income of citizenship costs 17 billion euros, but we have indicated where to take these resources: intervening on waste and privileges and providing a remedial tax on gambling, which impoverishes families, the prohibition of cumulation for golden pensions, the cutting of advice and gold wages in societies and public administrations. It is a measure, then, that immediately reduces its own cost, because, if so many people can recover dignity and possibility of spending (food, clothes, books, maintenance of the car and the house, some small investment for energy saving), out of 17 billion 3,5 come in the form of VAT. Then there is the tax revenue from the companies that produce those goods; they are healthy taxes, because they are born of new work and new orders, finally. Then there will be a resumption of recruitment, therefore less unemployed and fewer people who will ask to benefit from the income of citizenship. That's where the new job comes from. He was also in Matteo Renzi's program: but what did he do in this sense? 80 euros given to those who have a working income, below 1,500 euros, but - it is a given CISL - they are taken with new taxes that fall on even lower incomes. An increase in taxation, in times of recession, brings even more recession, fiscal depression and deflation. And God does not want to increase VAT - as I hear it - to 25.5 percent! The time has come to end this policy as a waiter, which changes the cutlery on the table, but on the plate does not put anything. And it must end the abusive occupation of legislative power by a government that thinks only of its own survival. Let's go back to the words: delegate work. According to Article 76 of the Constitution: "The exercise of the legislative function cannot be delegated to the Government except with the determination of guiding principles and criteria" - stringent - "and only for limited time and for defined objects." On the other hand, the government presents on its own initiative the delegation it wants to receive from Parliament, amends it and gives us confidence. In this regard, Mr President, since some say that the good evening lady will arrive and ask for confidence, then I ask her to suspend work as long as the Rules of Procedure Council finally decides whether here - and we are in the Senate - the House has the priority to ask for a non-turn to the articles or the Government to put trust, and also to put an end to the slightest possibility of amending this text! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I said that this erosion of legislative power violates Article 76 of the Constitution. Attention: the Constitutional Court could point out the excess of delegation, as has already been the case with the sanctioning rule on drugs. Then what do we do? We are going to touch the undiscovered nerves of social cohesion, very delicate issues! We can't take false steps. Or isn't the Fornero law enough for us? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] All the more so because the delegations contained in Article 1 on social shock absorbers, active labour services and policies, on simplification of procedures and compliance, on the reordering of the discipline of working relationships, all these delegations must be exercised within six months of the approval of this bill, with a further twelve months reserved for the approval of supplementary and corrective provisions: in all, eighteen months, within which the Commissions and Parliament would have the possibility to implement a rule truly in line with the Constitution. If we then go into the matter, here too we find vices. The provisions of paragraph 7 of Article 1 on variable safeguards mean what? It means that for the first time the protections to new recruits do not apply, then, when the term expires, they can still be fired and can remain precarious for life, without ever making them mature what is their right. Here, Article 3 of the Constitution, which bears the principle of equality, is damaged; moreover, the principle of rationality of a law is violated: the measure under consideration, in fact, says that it wants to extend the protections and instead reduces them. I remember the text of Article 35 of the Constitution, because it is resounding what happens: "The Republic shall protect work in all its forms and applications" and, again, Article 3 thereof, which reads as follows: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. I'm barely aware of the remote control discipline. [[Recalls of the President]] With the discipline of remote control workers are likely to suffer a humiliation precisely because the delegation is wide, and we do not know on which side will shoot this Government when we hand a gun in his hand. And then again, there is the matter of active services and policies, due to the general legislative competence of the Regions, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 17 of the Constitution. We cannot accept that an invariance is imposed and, that is, that the Regions see their financial and organizational autonomy damaged. Indeterminateness is then found in paragraph 9 (a) with regard to working women. In summary, therefore, for the violation of Articles 1, 24, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 76, 117 and 119 of the Republican Constitution, I ask you to vote to interrupt here. There are no requirements to approve this law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u17	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u18	Mr President, this bill of delegation is nicknamed - let us say - jobs act. We still wonder if it derives from the translation of "act for work" or whether it is the acronym of an act of different scope of President Obama that concerned businesses, even if the suspicion that it was only and only carried out for a part comes to us and has strengthened us by the examination of this bill in all its passages. We believe, first of all, that this bill of delegation is in clear violation of Article 76 of the Constitution. This article clearly provides that Parliament may delegate the Government to enact acts having ordinary law only on the basis and with the punctual observance of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. Therefore, the delegation must contain very strict and detailed criteria, defined and approved by Parliament, to which the Government must strictly adhere. In a law delegates the lack of principles and guiding criteria means that the free appreciation of the Government becomes the voluntas legis that determines the content of the delegated decrees, but also the fundamental political choices and the identification of the objectives. This possibility was considered unconstitutional by the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 340, according to which the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a principle or a governing criterion, as to the antipodes of bound legislation such as, by definition, delegated legislation. On the contrary, the draft law that we are examining today, as far as we are concerned, contradicts these fundamental principles, because we find in many parts of its unique article a sort of indeterminateness in the guidelines and objectives which, in themselves, shape it as a real blank delegation to the Commission. Then, in our opinion, there are other violations that even concern Article 81 of the Constitution. We believe that in this draft law of the Government, which has even been presented as the act of labour market reform that increases the protection of workers, the rights of workers, which our Constitution guarantees, are constantly and widely violated by the same indeterminateness of the reference of the increasing protections that is articulated in a real violation of Article 3 and the same principle of equality. The presentation of the bill was highly mystifying and demagogic, because it was intended to make people believe that even this so-called reform was the instrument for intervening in a dramatic situation, also from the employment point of view, in order to be able to restart the labour market and employment itself. We know perfectly well - we do not understand what changed the Government's mind, since this summer it said that it was certainly not the rules that created jobs - how this measure has been carried out which, in our opinion, will not give answers to the main problem, whose data are increasingly dramatic every day, and it will weaken even more the system of protections, already largely tampered with, and will not produce - it is not clear in the delegation for how it is written - any kind of serious and rational intervention on the many and varied forms of precarious contracts. The Government could have made another choice with regard to the determination of clear principles and, therefore, to indicate with extreme precision the type of flexible contracts that would have been repealed. This has not happened and, therefore, the absolute indeterminateness and indeterminateness of the delegation is clear from this point of view. We also believe that a mystification operation should be carried out if we consider what is written in our Constitution. Article 18 of the Workers' Statute is based on the principles and therefore on the Part before the Constitution itself, which we could recite very precisely here: I am not only referring to what I referred to before (the principle of equality), but also to Article 4 on the promotion and making effective the right to work, to guarantee a fair wage sufficient for a free and dignified existence (Article 36), to the protection of women's work and maternity (Article 37), to support the living conditions and to ensure the income of workers in the event of accident, illness, invalidity and old age, involuntary unemployment (Article 38), to confront free trade union representatives based on the democratic participation of workers (Article 39), the right to strike and all that the Part before the Constitution indicates - not only Article 1 - and that in the great reform brought about by the Workers' Statute he then found its application. Article 18, already largely tampered with, finds direct foundation in the Part before the Constitution. In recent months a continuous demagogic campaign has taken place and even attempts have been made to transform into a privilege a right in the face of arrogance and injustice; that is, to have passed the idea that the law still exists in the workplace and that being able to turn to a third judge for abuse and illegitimate dismissals was no longer a right but a privilege was an operation from an ideological point of view truly incredible! It was a thesis in clear and total violation of constitutional principles. Even in the part that concerns the system of intervention on the precarious and on the social shock absorbers, the delegations are - I repeat - absolutely vague and indeterminate. On the part of the social shock absorbers we did not want to deal clearly with what we consider the fundamental question, namely that of guaranteed minimum income - and we hid behind an abhorrentness, because the only operation we wanted to take home was the definitive removal of the principles of labour law transformed into commercial law: in fact, this is what has been produced in open violation of constitutional principles. Not only did small businesses ask for it, dear Minister, but, to be honest, there was a time when even the current president of Confindustria did not ask for it, also saying that the problem was not Article 18. For all these reasons and for the violation of Articles 1, 3, 76, 4, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 43 of the Constitution we ask not to proceed with the examination of this bill. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u19	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u20	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also calls for this measure not to be examined, first of all for a very procedural and formal reason, but for an extremely important reason. The delegation is extremely generic and puts in the hands of the Government, through the legislative decrees that it delegated to issue, the possibility to choose, in reality, what type of reform of the work to do. Parliament gives a blank delegation; in some cases this is so explicit that it is almost ridiculous. Unfortunately, it is not ridiculous to think that very delicate rules, which affect the lives of citizens, the lives of companies and the rights of workers, are reserved for dark officials, who are respected, but who are certainly not represented by the people, nor do they work, nor should they work with a public procedure in the light of the sun as, by force of things and by law and Constitution, Parliament works. This is really unacceptable, because it means that rules involving huge interests are reserved for government decisions through ministerial offices. Parliament cannot intervene. This is far from merely a matter of form: it is a matter of content. For example, in paragraph 2 (a) (6) it is expected that ordinary contributions will be reduced and that they will be remodulated between sectors. How? You don't know. The Government is free to lower certain burdens and raise certain others to certain sectors or types of workers in full freedom. Therefore, here we are voting, at the same time, to allow the Government to lower or increase the contributory charges for the various categories and decide independently how to proceed. It will be said: there is the opinion of the Commissions. We have very negative experience of how the opinions of the Commissions are received in certain cases of legislative decrees. It reminds me of the reordering of judicial geography, where opinions rendered practically unanimously by the House and Senate were completely ignored. You don't see why it should be different in this case. Another not bad point is the one in which we talk about "any" (so the Government can do it, or not) "introduction, after the use of ASpl, of a performance, possibly without figurative coverage (...)": therefore, I repeat, the Government can do it or not, can introduce figurative contributions or not introduce them; in other words, it can do exactly what it wants. It would have been more dignified to abolish this point, so at least it would not have given itself any criterion; it is a pity that the Constitution provides for it and that the common sense and convenience of citizens, workers and companies would also provide for certain rules. We know, in fact, that the uncertainty of the rules is one of the main causes, perhaps the first cause, of the lack of investment and, therefore, of the lack of recruitment by the companies: a company or a private investor invest and assume on the basis of the certainty of the rules. The uncertain norm is worse than the bad norm, from the investor's point of view: those who are familiar with the financial markets know it well; and the labour market, however, that has to do with people and not with shares, responds to the same logic. In another part of this provision we read: "rationalization" - the word "rationalization" is used many other times - "of existing recruitment incentives," to be linked to the observable characteristics for which statistical analysis evidences (...) ". Rationalization? In an electoral programme, perhaps for a municipality, where there are vague expectations, we can write "rationalize" the offices, but not in a law order. What does "rationalization" mean? It means once again that the government does what it wants. Later on we have another beautiful rule: "to valorize bilaterality through the reordering of the current discipline in this matter (...)" - that is, no criteria. Again: introduction of active labour policy principles which provide for the promotion of a link between income support measures for the unemployed person and measures aimed at his/her integration............................................................... It's like saying, make a good law. But this can be, to the limit, the mandate that voters give in elections. Oh yes, I forgot: this government was not wanted by the voters, but by maneuvers of the palace. Or: the introduction of experimental models, which include the use of tools to encourage the placement of job seekers and which also take into account good practices (...). There are many other things, but the situation becomes dramatic when we arrive at the types of working relationships, where, for example, we talk about "rationalization" - again - and simplification of procedures and compliances, including by repealing norms (...), with the aim of drastically reducing the number of acts of management of the same relationship (...). The original text used to say: "to halve the number of management acts" and now we write "to drastically reduce" because it seemed too precise as a criterion and we went on further genericity. Then, perhaps, the most representative point: introduction, if necessary again - even experimentally - of the minimum hourly compensation, applicable to the relationships with which a subordinate employment benefit is concerned.................................................................................................................................................... In other words, it is expected to set a minimum wage. In our country there is no minimum pay for workers, it is only provided for in national employment contracts; sectors that do not have a national employment contract do not have the minimum pay. It is given mandate to the Government, if it wishes, possibly experimentally (it does so for a while and then it may not do so anymore), to introduce it, without establishing any criteria of its level, this minimum hourly compensation. In the United States of America - but certainly we are a much more advanced democracy than the United States of America, so advanced that neither the people nor Parliament decide anymore - to determine what the minimum wage is (20 or 30 cents or half a dollar more or less) is the subject of long parliamentary debates and election campaigns: I repeat, on the basis of this point. In this text, instead, we mandate the government to do exactly what it wants: it can establish that the minimum pay is 50 cents or that it is 50 euros per hour: total will. This is the most evident proof of the total expropriation and total incorrectness of this delegation. Alongside excessively general things, which give the Government a freedom that is not its own (in the Constitution, in Article 76, it is very clear that the Government can be delegated to legislate only with precise criteria, which here are declared generic), we have something almost comical. At one point in article 1 paragraph 2 of the draft law we find something that is really worth reading: "introduction" is well noted the word "introduction" of the prohibition for public administrations to request data of which they are in possession. A rule that has existed for decades. Then it would be up to the government to govern, instead of making the laws expropriating Parliament, it would be up to the government to govern and impose on its offices to apply this rule, not as the Revenue Agency does, which constantly asks for documents already in its possession, tarting the citizens in time, in ways and with fines if they do not then carry the data already in its possession. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Finally, there is a problem of substance. This rule, for its generality, for its intention to abolish co-ordinated and continuous collaboration contracts, ideally replacing them with a permanent employment relationship with increasing safeguards, but in reality, in most cases, replacing it with unemployment (no longer - I repeat - with an indefinite relationship, but with unemployment), not only will it create no jobs, but it will lose a lot of them. Unfortunately, they will pay the young and not young citizens who will lose their jobs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u21	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u24	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, I rise to announce the New Centre's vote against these prejudices, which we consider to be quite weak in the reasons, sometimes even artificial. We in the New Right Center have supported and followed closely, playing a leading role, the formation of this delegation law, so we believe that its approval can give an important boost to the government, along with other reforms that are in the pipeline, to restart the engine of growth and employment. In the measure there are some measures and rules that convince us: the reorganization of the discipline of social shock absorbers; the reform of labour services and active policies; the simplification of procedures and obligations in the field of work; the reorganization of contractual forms with the overcoming, at last, of Article 18; the strengthening of measures to support motherhood and certain forms of self-employment; the introduction of technological means to support good practices in the workplace. We also believe that this measure fulfils all the requirements laid down in Article 76 of the Constitution, so we firmly and openly reject the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u27	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that in the light of the explanation of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, it is important to stress the absolute consistency of this bill with our Constitution. I am speaking very briefly on three points. The first concerns generality. I do not think it can be argued that the discipline contained in this delegation law is generic and therefore violates the fundamental principle of a delegation law. I believe that the forecasts contained in it with respect to the simplified labour code, to the new types of contract, to the overcoming of the existing legislation on protection, which certainly respects the fundamental principles of our Constitution, as well as the definition of relations with the Regions, are relevant and consistent with the constitutional dictation. In this regard, I recall, starting from the fund, that is to say from relations with the Regions, that in our Constitution the protection and safety of work are among the competing subjects, but certainly not among those delegated to the Regions and that therefore it is normal for the State to use the delegated law in order to be able to legislate in this matter. I would also remind you that it is the exclusive competence of the State to determine the essential levels of social benefits and rights, as well as civil rights, and that therefore some of the matters dealt with in this law delegate other is the establishment of general principles to which the Government of the Republic - not obscure officials - will have to wait in order to be able to translate them into concrete. Finally, I would like to remind you that on other very important issues which affect the fundamental rights of citizens in their economic, ethical and social relations - I think, for example, those on taxation - it is normal to have a delegated law in order to order the legislation of that particular sector. Therefore, the delegation for the simplified labour code, which goes to re-discipline the rights and duties in working relations, is also consistent with the Constitution. For the reasons which I have briefly explained, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling can therefore only be rejected. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u30	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am obliged to renew the request to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise we would not have the opportunity to know whether what we are going to do in this House is in line with the rules we have given ourselves and which are second only to the Constitution. It must be understood whether Parliament's sovereignty with regard to legislative power should be considered to be inviolable and whether the government's right to put the question of trust should therefore be subordinated to it, whereas it is already presented in writing and in advance by a parliamentary group - and therefore with all the chrisms of formal correctness - the request for no passage to articles. We are awaiting an answer from the previous vote of confidence, despite the fact that the issue had already been raised in earlier times. At this point I would ask you to anticipate the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because we know that events after that could have a course that could no longer be taken. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to speak on this point and to accept this request. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u31	We're not there yet, Senator. I will, however, convey to the President of the Senate your request, which has already been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u34	TONINI (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course quite legitimate to disagree on the substance of this measure, but I have found the arguments which aim to consider it unconstitutional to be rather weak and fragile. It would be good if there were a more sober use of the preliminary constitutionality, if we did not want - inflating it - to end up emptying it. If the arguments put forward by the senators submitting the questions for a preliminary ruling appear unfounded, it is precisely because, in the light of the constitutional and case-law provisions cited, those same preliminary rulings appear entirely unfounded. Let us look analytically at the three issues that have been raised. The first had as its main reference Article 76 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the arguments developed in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling all lead to a common conclusion, that is to say to consider the law delegates to our examination a list of principles and criteria so generic and imprecise as to prefigure a sort of delegation in white in clear violation with the aforementioned article of the Constitution. Thus, in support of this conclusion, certain judgments of the Judge of the Laws are invoked, in truth pronounced in favour of the arguments supported without recalling the extreme prudence with which the Court intervened to stigmatize the behaviour of the delegated legislator, which determines the specific content of that same constitutional jurisprudence. In fact, the Court has clarified that the delegation law can take various forms more or less wide, that there is a phenomenology of different delegations and that it is perfectly legitimate that the delegation ends up describing in a clearly accomplished way, but not detailed the main purposes that the Government must pursue through delegated legislation. Now, if this does not, of course, exempt from the obligation to examine carefully and prudently the jurisprudence of the Court with respect to the draft law delegated today to our examination, I would like to recall only a few passages of one of the most recent judgments of the Judge of the Laws, n. 230 of 2010, which seems to me to summarize clearly the guiding principles of the jurisprudential path that the Court has carried out on this sensitive matter. In that place the guidance of the Judge of the laws is confirmed, according to which the legislative delegation does not exclude any discretion of the delegated legislator, which may be more or less wide in relation to the degree of specificity of the criteria set out in the delegated law. In particular, the Court notes that: Article 76 of the Constitution does not preclude the issuing of rules that represent an ordinary development and, where appropriate, a completion of the choices expressed by the delegated legislator, since it must be excluded that the function of the delegated legislator is limited to a mere linguistic scan of the forecasts established by the first; Therefore, in the implementation of the delegation it is possible to assess the legal situations to be regulated and to make the consequent choices, in the physiological activity of filling that binds the two levels of regulation. Added to this is the consideration that, since the end of the 1980s, Parliament's delegation on the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been giving increasing attention to procedures, developing mechanisms that strengthen parliamentary opinions in the face of more general principles and criteria. In other words, it is thought that it is more effective to bind the Government to parliamentary opinions on the concrete schemes of decree that rigidly predetermine the results of content, and the most used mechanism is that of double opinion. Turning to the second point, totally unfounded considerations appear on the alleged violation of Article 3 of the Constitution in the light of the provisions on the subject of the so-called growing protection contract. It is clear that, by recalling a language in use in dealing with gender issues, Article 3 protects the same situations in their diversity. In judgment No 81 of 1969, the Constitutional Court added: As the case law of this Court has consistently held, Article 3 does not correspond to a criterion of mere formal and formal equality and therefore does not exclude that the legislator may adopt different rules to regulate situations which it considers to be different, thus adapting the legal discipline to the various aspects of social life within a margin of discretion which essentially justifies the criterion of differentiation adopted. Therefore, there is no violation of the constitutional dictation, where the bill delegates to our examination introduces rules that provide for increasing protection precisely because it looks at different situations from each other, which mature over time, and takes into account the different differences and needs that companies and workers have at different times of their work and professional journey. Finally, unfounded are the alleged violations of Article 117 of the Constitution, with reference to the division of competences between the State and the Regions in the discipline of the National Employment Agency, based on a preliminary position, but not in the constitutional sense. As always explained by the judge of the laws, with the judgment n. 50 of 2005, regardless of which is the complete content that must be recognized in the matter of the protection and safety of the job, there is no doubt that it includes the discipline of the services for the employment and in particular that of the placement. It should be added, however, that, since employment services are designed to satisfy the social right to work, the prerequisites for the exercise of the State's power to determine the essential levels of the benefits of civil and social rights that must be guaranteed throughout the national territory, as referred to in Article 117, second paragraph, letter m) of the Constitution, that is, a typically state prerogative, as well as that the discipline of subjects nevertheless entitled to carry out mediation may require regulatory actions falling within the powers of the State for the protection of competition as provided for in Article 117, second paragraph, letter e) of the Constitution. So these two disputes, as well as others raised, seem to be finally overtaken by the regulatory contribution made at first instance by the significant changes made here in the Senate a few weeks ago, but also more recently by the 11th Commission and the Chamber of Deputies. In conclusion, let us divide, let us also debate animately and passionately about the content and merit of this delegation law, but let us leave aside the Constitution, because there is no unconstitutionality in this delegation, which indeed aims to implement the fundamental principle of our Constitution, that is to make substantial the equality provided for in Article 3. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u35	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Munerato and other senators (QP1), Senator Catalfo and other senators (QP2), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP3) and Senator Malan. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u36	Madam President, I do not think I am saying anything new, but I cannot help but reiterate how the job act marks a crucial step in the field of work and marks it even more because our country is, without the issue of denial, in a very difficult situation from the point of view of work, employment and more generally of the economy. In the first half of 2014, 8,000 companies took books to court in Italy. Exactly 730 more cases than in June 2013. Compared to June 2009, the rate of failure increased by 79 percent. A fact that underlines the economic difficulties of our companies. Last year there were more than 14,000 failures throughout the country: 54 percent more than in 2009, the year when the crisis was beginning to make its heavy impact on our economy. From 2009 to today there are about 67,000 companies that have brought books to court, in a trend of constant increase in the course of quarterly surveys. This is the disturbing picture of the analysis of failures in Italy. In parallel with this dramatic situation of companies we have that of the world of work. The labour market, in fact, lost a million jobs from 2008 to the first half of this year. Why did I want to quote this data, which most certainly already know? Because I don't think you can understand the soul of this law if you don't drop it in the context in which it is born. A context characterized by a great fragility, by a situation of precariousness now crystallized, determined by 20 years of questionable political choices, by the progressive loss of jobs, by the fear of companies to invest because paralysed by a system too cast, by an asphyxiating bureaucracy, by a series of rules and rules that prevent any kind of bet on the future. In this context, the Government and the majority intervened with a single objective: to restore confidence in this country. There are two lighthouses for this measure: companies and workers. And the relationship between the two factors is the cornerstone of this jobs act. I believe that it is possible - and this is the objective of this law - to create positive dynamics between entrepreneurs and workers, so as to revive the employment system of this country. A few days ago I met, in a seminar attended by the Minister, some very high-level companies operating in Italy, and I realized how they look with interest and with a hint of hope the approval of this measure. Because then, in the end, when it comes to work, one must also think about who creates this work. Many, too many are the companies that, because of this crisis, have closed. We saw it from the data I mentioned at the beginning. And so are those who are now afraid to invest, because uncertainty is too much and because some regulatory and bureaucratic rigidities do not allow to bet, to assume on itself that risk of enterprise that is certainly precisely of those who have a company but that must not represent for these an insurmountable obstacle. This measure tries to rekindle hope, it puts in place a profound and radical simplification, eliminating a series of rigidities that scare entrepreneurs, thus allowing to restart the investments. It aims to give companies greater certainty about the costs they will have to bear. In short, it puts entrepreneurs in a position to do business and, therefore, to create jobs. By that, I do not mean that there will be less protection for workers, who are the second beacon of this measure. In fact, there are many guarantees given to those who did not. I think of moms with a precarious contract: the resignation in white can and must be only horror of the past. I am thinking of all those young and older people who have come across the labyrinth of co.co.pro, co.co.co and the like in recent years, which have reduced an entire generation to insecurity and uncertainty. All of this can now be greatly reduced. I am thinking of the extension of social shock absorbers in constancy of employment or in the event of unemployment. I think (and this is very important) of the centrality that is given to permanent work, introduced with the contract to increasing safeguards, clear and simple attempt this to reduce the elements of precariousness. Jobs act, in its complexity, aims to stabilize jobs. Filippo Taddei said well in a recent interview with "Il Sole 24 ORE": "It is only with more stable contracts that human capital is increased." With stable jobs there is 40% more likely to be offered training and personal retraining in the course of a career. The jobs that last are the ones that create the most productivity. Businesses must then return to investing in human capital as well, in order to remedy the investment deficit that we have seen progressively over the years. So - and I start to conclude - I cannot help but reiterate, with conviction, that in making this law it has looked to the real world, to those many women and to those many men who are suffering the crisis and, with this, the lack of prospects and the future. Because then, after all, this is the task to which we are called in this House: to give a perspective to our fellow citizens; to give them not only hope, but also the certainty of a future. This measure goes in the direction of having a more definite and clearer working condition, in the interests of workers and businesses: the two headlights I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, which we must continue to bear in mind and which we must, over time, exploit and develop in their full potential. I'm sure we'll be able to do it on this road. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u38	Madam President, at last we are about to adopt a very long-awaited reform, worthy of being called such a reform, of a structural nature; as such, it could not help but provoke the controversy and contradictions that have emerged vividly in the political debate of these months. Minister, finally, after forty-five years, let us finally send to the attic the Workers' Statute, which at the time was wanted not by the Communists, but by the true reformists of the time, aware, as they were, for a principle inherent in the spirit of those who have a reformer soul, that a reform is not forever. That is why the true reformists of today, whether lay or Catholic, right or left, Labour or liberal, all together can exult for having brought into the final straight line a historical reform for a nation still blocked by ancestral ideological models and destined to radically change the approach not only to rights, but also from the cultural point of view with respect to the topic of labour and the labour market. This delegation law aims to profoundly change many aspects of our labour market. And it's not just Article 18, as many people want to think. Of course, we have always supported and hoped that this rule will be definitively exceeded, which, in our view, is a brake on permanent recruitment and an obstacle for domestic and foreign investors, and that it will be replaced by a monetary protection contract, linked to the seniority of service in the event of unjustified dismissal. The so-called growing protection contract, together with the other rules contained in the delegation law, creates the conditions for a more streamlined, dynamic and flexible labour market for companies, but also safer for those who up to or today have remained on the margins, excluded from all forms of protection, protection and support, true training, guidance for the search for a new job. It is not possible to think that, while the world changes at an impressive speed, we stand still and anchored to 50-year-old work patterns. Technological change has upset entire production sectors, many of which have disappeared or are destined to disappear. The entry into the world market of poor countries with low-cost labour inevitably polluted the labour market of Western countries, with inevitable consequences on certain production chains. This is why, today more than ever, the fixed place for life or the rigidity of certain jobs that, increasingly, push the enterprise and, consequently, the worker, out of the market is in question. It is certainly true what I have often heard in this House and in these months of political debate on jobs act. It will not be this measure alone that will give job, but without these rules that we are going to approve, we would risk to compress and hinder all efforts in the other directions that the Government is trying to do and that it will have to make in the coming months to restart with more momentum and more confidence the economic and employment growth of our country. There can be no rule in the whole world of labour discipline, however the best it can be, that alone can create new jobs. They are created by improving productivity, to put on the market goods and consumer products that can be sold on the global market. For this to happen, an important effort is needed to invest in technological research, in process and product innovation and in the relaunch of our Made in Italy, which is the true brand of genius and the consequent production specialty of Italy and Italians. Jobs are created, therefore, by investing in scientific research, innovation, logistics, the ability to attract investment and capital and therefore on the credibility of a Government. In this logic we have the duty and the task, sometimes ungrateful because often unpopular, to propose serious and innovative reforms, in step with the times, able to simplify the rules and sburocratizzare the paths that lead to the growth of the country system. This is certainly a reform that aims to eradicate and rewrite the great chapter of Italian labour law, which, over the years, the stratification of thousands of rules has made intricate and incomprehensible even to the most experienced. With this reform we put an end to this tangle and with the adoption of the so-called simplified code of work (a few dozen articles that can represent a safe and sure reference for those who want to come to invest in Italy) we give simpler, better understandable, less rigid and more shared rules. In the legislative structure of the reform there are some fundamental points that decline essential aspects for the protection of workers' rights, but also for the protection of the State in relation to these rights. I am thinking of the system of social shock absorbers: an important step to make our welfare system more efficient. With their reorganization they will come to limit the abuses and distortions, the use of instruments such as the Cassa Integrazione and the Cassa Integrazione in derogation, often used even when the company had already ceased its activity and which gave the illusion to the workers of being still such, when instead, in fact, they paid people to do nothing and, what is worse, they were not used to do something else. These are forms of collective aid, which we can no longer afford, so we need to limit and possibly strengthen these prerogatives in certain cases, but to abolish them completely when we are faced with a cessation of activity. I am thinking of support for motherhood, sickness and other rights that must be extended to all forms of work, including self-employment. I am thinking of the reform of active policies, where it is probably necessary to allocate more resources, with the strengthening of school-work paths, of continuing training also within companies, of orientation paths, of job change - even in the case of job change, now planned - to strengthen employment companies: I am thinking ultimately of improving the employability of the worker. So, to conclude, this great reform will help us create more favourable situations for businesses, for investments, to avoid discrimination among working citizens, to help change this country for the better. Allow me to conclude my speech, Madam President, by thanking the Commission for its work and the rapporteur, Senator Ichino, and a warm and affectionate thought to our President, Mr Sacconi. [[Applause from the NCD, FI-PdL XVII and Senator Berger groups]] , at this time abroad to cure himself, because not in good health, and to dedicate to his person, to his commitment, to his enthusiasm and to his reformist and Juslavorist beliefs the definitive approval of this great reform. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u39	Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this draft delegation law could close the first act of intervention on labour legislation which will be fully implemented in the decrees. Those decrees that, out of respect for the Government and in spite of those who ideologise such an important topic in the current dramatic economic phase, we want to consider a later fundamental moment of confrontation and overcoming the still controversial aspects. Already now, with the law of stability, there are painful points regarding the coverage of social shock absorbers and active policies. The confidence that some of us voted in the transition to the Senate was permeated by a strong sense of political suffering, because not a few were the criticalities and these, with that method of closing the dialogue, could not be dissolved in the debate in this House. Yet we voted for it, moved by a sense of political responsibility towards a country hungry for work and reliability in the institutions, aware that social tension must be understood and must also be guided towards a constructive outlet. However, this attitude was little shared by the Government. It is undeniable in fact that a different result has reached it: the attack on the union has obtained the unionization of much of the country and, in my opinion, not to dialogue in any form and laugh at the confrontation with the unions or with any other intermediate body of the society is almost always a sign of weakness of self and own arguments. This responsibility is dictated by a history, that of the left, that does not condition us, because it does not stand statically in front of us or behind us, but constitutes us and puts us in the open gaze towards a epochal challenge that globalization and the crisis have placed to all countries. Challenge to which we are looking at a socialist reformism that - as Macaluso described it in a recent and interesting interview - has helped to make this extraordinary and complex country a protagonist in the European and international space. A left that has been able to fight to obtain that Statute of the workers which has as part of subtitle, the following diction: "norms on the protection of the freedom and dignity of the workers". A Workers' Statute that I want to see who will have the courage to say that it is passed or will be exceeded. He will have to deal with it, of course, with a not insignificant opposition, of which I will certainly be part, also because symbols may die, but symbols are always significant and the meaning, in this case, lies in the dignity of the people who work and who are the weakest part among the contractors. Certainly you can change what is not current today, looking at the whole of the new problems. But doing so by attacking only the weakest part is a Pavlovian reflection of the past centuries. For our part, if it is a question of putting hand to the now unsustainable level of precariousness that youth work above all, but not always that, has now reached, the objective can only see us in the front row, in order to achieve a change adapted to the needs of a constantly evolving socio-economic reality. Just as the extension of the protections to those who do not have it today is a fundamental aim, so that the dignity and justice of the person are again protagonists in economic policies; everything for which we have struggled in the various historical conditions and for which we feel it is worth fighting even today, to change that line of neoliberalism that is somehow eroding and not resolving the problems of the economic crisis. Of course, without a serious industrial policy programme, we risk frustrating any effort. On the other hand, when it comes to structural reforms, we always think about deregulation of the labour market and its devaluation, but none of this has anything to do with a genuine and growth-oriented policy. Returning to the delegation, as it came from the Chamber, it is undeniable that the work at the Senate before and that at the Chamber then produced some changes, between formal and substantial, that we can define positive. We cannot, however, fail to note how deliberately and obstinately we have pursued the approach of double binary in the world of work, restoring that apartheid, that dualism that was the black beast of the Government in supporting the delegation, but then proposed and maintained in the content of the same: on the one hand, the workers already hired, for whom the protections of Article 18 remain; on the other hand, the new recruits (younger and not younger), who will have the new contract to undefined protections, more than increasing, or it would be better to say the new contract with reduced protections, in particular with regard to dismissals for economic reasons. On this aspect, the infamous Article 18 remains a clear and profound dissent and not for abstract ideological reasons, but for the conviction that the structural increase in inequalities between permanent workers does not help the recovery but rather widens it, and widens the rifts produced by the crisis in the fabric and social cohesion. With equal work and income, unequal regulatory rules, believing that we favour those enterprises that today grasp a sterile debate - the ideological one - when their problem is finding jobs, and not new laws and decrees. Beyond the legislative aspects that the Government will want to give to the contract for increasing protections, it must be remembered that the new legislation, in order to be effective, must be consistent with the measures already in force. The government, in May, liberalised fixed-term contracts, making them a kind of three-year trial period. In fact, up to five renewals are allowed over three years, without companies having to specify the causes of such extensions in a contract that continues to be on a fixed-term basis. If the contract for increasing protection becomes law, it will therefore be necessary to return to this first measure, making the use of fixed-term contracts less flexible over time. We cannot imagine a young man who first is hired for a total of three years in term, with five contracts lasting six months each, and then he must start a new employment relationship with the contract to increasing safeguards. A labour market of this kind would really be B-series. Moreover, we would have preferred that the proper reform of active labour policies and social shock absorbers, in order to build a new and more modern integrated model, should have been considered a priority (with the consequent allocation of adequate resources), and should therefore have rightly and consistently preceded the amendment of the contractual rules. Quotes often help and clarify the speech. Among the speakers I have heard in this House, I have not found a better one than the one heard in the dozens of meetings on the ground in recent weeks: Guys, when I started working in the late '60s, I was a bum, starting out as a school. At the first job, I immediately engaged in some demands in the factory where I was employed, more for the workers than for myself. They gave me the "folio di via" without even "good morning" or "good evening." There was work, I entered another company, this time with the bitter awareness that I could not afford, with mom and sisters on my shoulders, to think about justice and my youthful desire to give myself up. Then came the Workers' Statute and the protection of Article 18. If it hadn't been there, my life and my approach to reality, my commitment would have been different. Article 18 allowed me to make the choices I made later and made me proud of what I am. It will not be granted to you. There's not much to add. There is no ideology; there is no misunderstanding of the changing world; there is no distance with children who do not find work. Today we will be attacked by those who have just fears about the preservation of the dignity of work. We will be attacked by those who hope, desperate, that the devaluation of the work will serve the recovery. There are, however, still vertical women and men. I say to the government: keep the bar straight, don't row like a boat pushed into the past. He's rowing against the current, you know that. And the danger of a new division, the danger that lies in the meaning of that signifier that is believed to be only a symbol is the dignity of people, of those people who build our civil society from the bottom and who need the legislator to stand on their side. We're on their side. I look forward and we all expect the government to give some substantial response to this issue even now. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u41	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the improvements made to the House are mild or, better, they have implemented the guidelines by better defining the frame, but at the same time they leave a canvas to be drawn. At the moment we have in the background, which would like to be on the green suggesting that you can open immense prairies from green pastures, a grey sky that leaves the question of what time it does and will do. It may open, perhaps, but it is likely that the fog will thicken or that it will start raining or, better, that it will start raining again, because of course it always rains in the wet. We start from employment centres: up to now we have not been able to make them work, even when the historical moment was from a more favourable work point of view; they have always struggled to link demand and work supply, to facilitate a decisive meeting between the parties, employer and worker. Why didn't they work? Why do we think tomorrow will work? The lack of operation of the centers is caused by several factors, starting from the staff in force, probably with not specific and congruent capacities, as well as under organic, that has not guaranteed and facilitated the encounter. Today they have and tomorrow will have a further aggravating: it is the lack of work supply because not only of a contracted economy and a recessive historical moment, but above all of the political choice not to implement an expansionary policy. In fact, investment in research, training and infrastructure are needed to keep pace with the times; a renewed industrial policy aimed at encouraging the new economies; putting a stop to the entrepreneurial exodus; being attractive to do new business; rethinking working hours by favouring 36 hours per week, as in the public employment, in order to work less all, for a better quality of life. Before starting to deconstruct some of the labour rights it was and is necessary, in my opinion, to act on these levers (as well as at the same time on evasion, corruption and justice, legal certainty and punishment) in order to be able to respond to the demand for work and supply. The crisis and the lack of work inherently generate a social mobbing, which could be aggravated by some choices put in place by this delegation work. The worker is at a disadvantage, he knows that it is difficult to relocate and, therefore, tends to accept situations in which his professional capacity is degraded and sometimes not rewarded by a fair pay as he should have. To touch on the discipline of tasks (referred to in Article 13 of the Workers' Statute) in the light of the stistic moment in terms of offering work is not a virtuous choice. On this subject, that of tasks, it should be noted that these are defined and identified by virtue of the principle of contractuality, contained in Article 2103 of the Civil Code and reaffirmed by Article 96 of the implementing provisions, where it is established that the employer must inform the employer, at the time of recruitment, of the category and qualification assigned to him in relation to the tasks for which he was employed. The law, therefore, provides for the employer's obligation to guarantee to those who hire at their company a professional and economic framework adapted to the task that they are called to carry out and that the employee is also protected from possible penalties as regards remuneration. It has been established that the tasks which the worker will be called upon to carry out within the production and organizational structure are defined in a contractual and individual way at the time of recruitment, and we must note that it is always the employer's power to change them. It is precisely thanks to the rewriting of Article 2103 by the Workers' Statute that the employer's power to change the work of the worker is not, however, uncontrolled. In the event that the employer does not comply with these statutory directives and that the application is made, the employed and dequalified worker may, by right, claim compensation for the professional, biological or existential damage. According to the current regulatory data, the changes are allowed only for tasks equivalent to those contracted to the assumption or to those carried out with the character of stability, any different agreement is null, except exceptions. With jobs act, the rules would seem to change for the worse. The current rule in fact has as its aim the protection of the professionalism of the worker, as a sum of experiences. To speak of equivalence means to consider both the remuneration and the professional aspect, to nothing by detecting the contractual levels that pertain to minimum tariff aspects. To refer to the professionalism of the worker means to evaluate the position of the worker within the organization of the company, therefore apparently equivalent tasks may not prove such if, within a given context, they have different career prospects or if they imply an under-utilisation or dispersion of the occupational assets of the worker. On the contrary, tasks belonging to different professional profiles can be considered equivalent if assessed from a career development perspective. It can be concluded that a correct contractual phase at the beginning of the relationship, with the precise identification between the parts of the assigned tasks, which on the one hand are necessary to the company and on the other hand there is the availability of the worker, allows to keep the employment relationship on the correct track, avoiding delicate and dangerous unilateral interpretations. I therefore believe that regulatory action is more appropriate in order to regulate cases within the area of exceptionality, i.e. cases which allow, in the light of the regulatory framework and the provisions of collective labour agreements, derogations from the prohibition on the modification of the worker's duties. The choice made, albeit limited to a demand which, at most, sees the worker falling by a level with the maintenance of the same pay, does not guarantee and does not mean that in the last line of the pay envelope (the net to pay) the treatment will be equal to that of the previous pay envelope, in which the worker was assigned to a higher level of duty. This, in a short and certain future, will be possible, without going through a trade union bargaining; it could leave in this choice wide spaces for there to possible dismissals for economic reasons. In paragraph 7 (e), Article 4 of the Workers' Statute is corrected, which states that the entrepreneur is prohibited from using systems allowing the remote control of employees' work. Since, however, it is possible to install systems that have organizational or productive purposes (as in the case of digital phones, computers and magnetic cards) and that also allow remote control of workers, provided that an agreement is reached with the trade union representatives (RSA or RSU) on the methods of use of such equipment (i.e. prior to installation), I wonder what is now meant by: revision of the discipline of remote controls on plants and working tools (as added to the Chamber) taking into account technological evolution and containing the productive and organizational needs of the company with the protection of the dignity and confidentiality of the worker (as added to the Chamber). If there is already the possibility of reaching agreements on the use of audiovisual installations or other equipment which have only organizational and productive purposes, what should, in my opinion, result from such action is a certain regulation of existing systems, differentiated on the basis of the different reference sectors taken into account from time to time. In other words, one account is to use new technologies to promote forms such as teleworking and, therefore, to meet the needs of both the company and the worker; another is to remove the prohibition on the subject from Article 4 of the Workers' Statute on the use of systems that allow remote control of employees' work. With regard to Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, after the correction of the Chamber, in paragraph 7 (b), the addition of "common" is expected, i.e. that the contract without a time limit must aim to be the contract most used in the employment relationship. At the same time, it is expected that there will be a worsening in terms of job security compared to Law No 92 of 2012, since the worker's reinstatement is excluded if dismissal is economic, but there is a monetisation directly proportional to the seniority of service. It limits the reintegration into the workplace only for null or discriminatory dismissals and specific cases of unjustified disciplinary dismissal, providing for certain time limits for the appeal of dismissal. We do not know what the unjustified reasons are; we do not know the details yet. It seems to me that monetary compensation is not an irrelevant detail, especially when compared to the existing situation. However, at the same time, the increasing safeguards mentioned in the text cannot replace in this way, given the absence of any regulatory details and appropriate assessments, the safeguards provided for in the cases of dismissal. Moreover, this would lead to greater confusion in the already extensive regulatory framework on dismissal, which has already been modified in a complex way by the Fornero reform. A well-known newspaper wanted to synthesize the world that could prefigure itself in the field of work through the delegated decrees: History of an employee in the world of jobs act. Descent to the next venture hell: from the PC controlled to the cameras, from the downgrading to the dismissal (and re-hire half-salary). In the light of the lack of structural improvements that could be made to the House, noted that even the Senate there were no variations and in the light of an alleged - I seem to have understood - request for trust, I declare that I am not in a position to trust and trust, especially with respect to the first decree delegated regarding the matter of the contract to increasing protections, in spite of the guidelines outlined. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and the Senators Mussini and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u43	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u44	(IT) Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us close here the process of this measure, which is fundamental for work; a measure, which has had the merit, let me say it, to bring to the centre of the attention of a debate, plastered and often sterile, the present precariousness of the world of work, trying, after analysis and sad findings on the state of the art, to try to move from words to deeds. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, as Beppe Severgnini reminds us, while the world of work was gradually being turned upside down by increasingly precarious employment contracts and forms of underpaid or unpaid work developed, saying "Italy is a Republic based on internship," politics has retracted allowing our children to know only precariousness and insecurity, with contracts and contracts repeating themselves, when lucky, for years, without an adequate contribution either in terms of salary or in terms of social security. This situation has gone too far in silence and, even when it has been highlighted, the problem has never been in priority. Politics was engaged in other things, in rhetorical and roboating discourses, while the world of work, as we knew it, with rights that we gave for acquisition, became increasingly fragile; it broke, crushed, pulverized in project contracts, coordinated and continuous collaboration contracts, occasional contracts, call contracts. Today we have over forty contractual forms. Who wants to work must move in a scenario in which representation, that of the unions and that of politics, is largely unsatisfactory, limited and in fact, often disinterested, to the real destinies of the people who, despite everything, despite these conditions, work. Even the right to motherhood has been put in perhaps: in these years of crisis, in fact, the work of women has kept only because of the over fifty (because of the increase in the retirement age), while the employment rate of women between the fifteen and the forty-nine years, as the annual report ISTAT 2014 recalls, has dropped, leaving our country nailed to 46.5% (in the case of mothers, one in two works in the North Center, one in three in the South), against 66 percent of Great Britain and 60% of France (which have, respectively, a birth rate of 1,9 and over two children, while Italy is still at its sad 1.4). Chiara Saraceno and Manuela Naldini write in a documented search: "Those who work on a fixed-term basis are less likely to have children in the future, while among those who have children, those who have a short-term job increase tensions in the family." And this is perfectly reflected in the fact that, more than others, it must make us think: the increase of women who do not work two years after childbirth, raised from 18.4% in 2005 to 22.3 percent in 2013 (we have gone back): which means that, today more than yesterday, and almost always due to temporary contracts and precarious work, many women remain unemployed after pregnancy. However, we do not talk about this, we do not talk about it enough, the debate is all too often focused on ideological and a priori confrontation, and the reality, the real urgency, is left out. The reality, fierce in its evidence, tells us that one, indeed by now several generations, those of our children, but for some of us we can also say of the grandchildren, not only do they not have the same rights as their fathers, but they often have no protection. This bill of delegation has the merit of trying to remedy such injustices, also because our country needs, in order to restart and return to growth, its best energies. Paragraph 7 (g) refers to minimum hourly compensation, by establishing that a minimum hourly compensation, applicable to employment relationships, is introduced in sectors not governed by collective agreements, after consultation with the social partners. Already with this aspect we turn to many people until now invisible and forgotten by everyone. Too many people work today without the possibility of engaging in collective agreements and are paid on the basis of private bargaining: we can imagine how free they are. With the new rules, these persons will have a minimum laid down by law, in compliance with the constitutional requirement laid down in Article 36, for which the worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure a free and dignified existence for himself and his family. The reduction of contractual forms makes the same with another very clear indication, contained in article 1, paragraph 7, letter b), in which it expresses the will to promote the contract indefinitely as a common form of employment contract, making it more convenient - not denying or prohibiting - than other types of contract in terms of charges. Quite simply: businesses must be cheaper to work stable than to work precariously. They are precise indications of attention to a generation that fails to keep up despite the work, who works under pressure or who does not work at all, and that only with great sacrifice and courage, despite the work, decides to build a life as an adult. A generation to which we finally owe concrete answers. In the same way, the desire to review the forms of social shock absorbers, the new forms of protection for those who lose the job are based on the need to guarantee income protection with a remodulation of the ASPI, with a homogeneization of the discipline relating the duration of the treatments to the past contributory history of the worker; but also leaving not only the worker in the search for work, through tools of support and training and continuous help, involving also different actors such as schools, operators of the third sector and private in this iter. In addition, again in this delegation, there is talk of simplifying recruitment procedures, which today are obscure Byzantineisms, and the creation of standardised procedures for the granting of wage integration funds. Of course, we all know that laws alone do not create jobs. We are in a period of economic crisis that does not seem to have an end and has an impact on employment, but the decontribution to new recruitments, with a reduction in labour costs of 24% of the wage bill for new recruitments made under the permanent contract of increasing protection from the law of stability, is a necessary and indispensable first step. Not to mention that this measure is combined with the reduction of IRAP for new recruitments. A step that someone, after so many words and too few facts, has the courage to take and that we will support with full conviction today and in all the stages of implementation that will follow this law delegation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u46	Madam President, Minister, Undersecretary Bellanova, let us start with this figure: in 18 years, taxes have increased twice as much as income. The average household tax has increased by 40%, while incomes have increased by even 20%. Maybe it's better to tell Renzi that this is the 40-20 report that interests Italians. Today it is equivalent to an annual contraction of almost 5,500 euros per family. That's the data. In other words, people squeezed into the bone and with less purchasing power available. Other information. We have reached 3,410,000 unemployed, we are 13.2%, and the figure represents an absolute historical record that has not been equal since 1977. Despite these elements that set the perimeter of a catastrophe, Minister Poletti and the Premier invite to see the glass half full - theirs is for sure - and make pirouettes with numbers. Renzi from the media balcony continues to provide numbers of employment growth, while the only thing that has grown is the level of general crisis. He announced days ago: "Since I'm here, there are 153,000 more jobs," and then, after a few days, they went down to 100,000, finally to see that there are only 51,000 out of 22 million people in employment! What does that mean? Tinning, all stopped and a year ahead in the midst of recession. I mean, since Renzi was here, nothing's changed. In the face of the much announced: "We change towards". And then, as if it wasn't enough to shoot the numbers on the Premier's side, the Minister of Labour also tries to put the load on it with the announcement of the increase of the workers indefinitely. Poletti announces that these new contracts increase by 7.1 percent and takes credit for them; therefore, according to him, the facts would certify the goodness of the choices of the Government. That, Minister Poletti, is a lie. That increase in permanent contracts is in fact the son of the only increase that occurred this year, but in the first quarter, when the decree was still in drawers. On the contrary, in the second and third quarter of 2014 new open-ended contracts decreased compared to the previous period. Translated: the action of this Government has not increased and has not facilitated employment growth. Today, 70% of new employment contracts are fixed-term, i.e. people who live continuously in precarious employment and blackmail. The story art-built with the numbers of contracts wants to hide the truth, that is the percentage of work that citizens consider to be "stable" has fallen this year, as it continues to do since the beginning of the crisis, so it is increasingly difficult to plan a family and a future. I mean, the house burns and here tweet and play the harp! If the house is burning, the first thing to do is to save our loved ones and not straighten the paintings to the walls. You have burned precious months using them to turn the country upside down with reforms like the one for the Senate, which for now is stranded - and less bad - instead of starting to give urgent social answers, as always we of the M5S have asked, starting to work immediately on a guaranteed income for every citizen who does not have work and is in difficulty and to give breath to the minimum pensioners, raising the miserable pensions of 495 euros to figures decidedly more dignified. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizenship income - which is the only sure thing that Europe asks of us - would have saved the people and the economy of the country by now. Gentlemen, what's your plan? Have the courage to tell the Italians publicly, without hiding behind false slogans or, worse still, behind lies. For months, from these benches, we have firmly condemned the authoritarian drift assumed by this Government. We have not gotten tired and we will not tire of reaffirming our political disapproval of a parliamentary majority pursuing the only petty aim of safeguarding positions of personal privilege, of relatives or acquaintances: a majority that has legitimized and continues to legitimize the scientific suppression of democratic garrisons that are grounded in our Constitution. The delegation of work, which you will soon impose on the country, is yet another demonstration that our reproach was based on specific reasons. It is easy to understand that at the end of this path there will be a condition of insecurity and social instability, a consequence of a radical precariousization of existence. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work warns us: in 2020 the first cause of illness or absence from work will be stress due to insecurity, insecurity of life, workload and strong competition. Is this the future you have in mind? What makes this scenario even more alarming is the appalling awareness that these choices destined to generate a continuous condition of social desertification are not only the result of dullness and political shortsightedness, but of a precise and subversive will of democratic institutions. What is your plan, gentlemen? You find six billion to build warships, but you can't find funds for flood victims, exodus or social shock absorbers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Roosevelt said: "The hungry and unworking people are the pasta of which the dictatorships are made." It is now clear that the strategy adopted by the Government aims exclusively to relegate citizens into subjects, with the powerful more and more powerful and untouchable masters. A context marked by strong precariousness, such as that which the Government is setting up, in addition to generating social insecurity and a vicious circle of clientelism, facilitates the mechanisms of control of the consent of the powerful of turn that conveys the votes with populist promises (the 80 euros, to understand us). We are embarrassed by the Government's attempt to try to make believe that the elimination of labour protection can restart the economy, also with a blank delegation to zero investment. Do you want to attract foreign investors by selling out our workforce? Then have the courage to hold a consultative referendum and ask your voters what they think of the abolition of Article 18! The reality is that the only subjects destined to benefit from this reform process will be the members of the usual clique of predatory multinationals, will be those who support the Premier's choices and who have treated the country as a territory to be plundered for years and to them, in a servile way, Renzi promised the scalp of Article 18. Admit it! All this is done with the complicit support of a very large part of the media. Why does no one make it clear that even the last changes made to the Chamber do not shift the final effect by a comma? Why do you not make it clear that the recovery of some hypotheses of reinstatement in case of disciplinary dismissal, that is the sugar given to quell the restlessness of a part of the Democratic Party, will only result in a massive and exclusive recourse to dismissals for economic reasons? Tell her these things, tell her! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The arrogant announcement of the Premier on Sunday: The job act likes or doesn't like it now is a reality! An invitation to social relaxation or yet another provocation of an authoritarian leader? Only an irresponsible person would act in this way in such an explosive social fabric, as it has manifested itself in the squares clearly even in the past days, and with the announcement of a general strike shortly that has not been seen for twenty years and that, for the first time, it is understood that for many of you it is almost a physical annoyance. And I shudder to see that the annoyance is felt by both the right and left benches! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This lawmaking of yours is a race at full speed against a gigantic wall. You will have to answer for choices that eliminate conquests of epochal civilizations by exchanging them with false myths disavowed by the reality of the facts. What further shakes the conscience and is hard to believe, is that this action is not undertaken by an extreme and ultra-conservative right-wing government, but by the so-called Democratic Party, which acts as a modern and progressive center-left! Stop proclaiming falsehood! Authorizing remote control of workers will not lead to new jobs. Introducement of authorised demand will not lead to new jobs. Fire at will simply by paying will not bring new jobs. Your goal is to select workers, through unscathed controls and legalize mobbing. Demansion is the center of all the cases of mobbing and I don't say it, says a Juslavorist with forty years of experience like Professor Alleva. You are building a delegation work on the sand, ask for confidence on a blank text that the Government will write at will on bases announced via tweet, on journalistic confidences: a way of lawmaking that everything is less than regular. And you know very well that it won't take long to go to the Constitutional Court. Renzi knows these things. With the laws you are imposing it will be possible to eliminate a worker simply because he is weak physically or elderly, and replace him with one younger and with more physical strength. You are leading us to a genuine selection of the productive human species. In short, you are laying the groundwork for managing men as scientifically selected breeding chickens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is this your project? Gentlemen, is this your project? No, we're not! The State cannot and must not be a blind and deaf authoritarian master. The State must be a service tool for the personal and professional growth of citizens. The State must be the instrument for enabling the development of the whole of society. Your choices direct us elsewhere, lead us straight to a diametrically opposite condition, where the only common denominator will be poverty and widespread insecurity and where building a family will become a sort of heroic choice for most people.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u47	Senator, I invite you to conclude, as you've already passed ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u48	Mr Paglini (M5S). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. But what can we expect from a Premier who comes with phrases of the type: "At one by one I will rip them all off," or "Am I going to make them talk but in the end I'm going to decide? These, gentlemen, are difficult years, and never as now have we needed people of high ethical standing, and who make harmony, harmony and sharing the lever of their work, through shared choices, which means feeling bound by the same fate, delivered to the same destiny, so as not to fall into the presumption of omnipotence. Gentlemen, this delegation of work humiliates us deeply. You're writing one of the blackest pages of our democracy. "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights": let's start from here and give a real service to our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u49	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Valentina - the name is fantasy, because I do not want to preclude her from finding another job, albeit precarious - she wrote to me that she worked for five years at a call centre. Her last project contract has expired and now she is looking for another job, even the humblest, because she must keep herself and a four-year-old daughter. He responded to a report from a telecommunications company. The first day he waited for five hours in the anteroom without anyone talking to her. The second day she returned and was entrusted to a tutor, who however had much less experience in the communications sector and with whom she did up and down the city, trying to place telephone subscriptions. The third day the tutor changed and the list of shops and offices to contact was left to her to arrange for herself. All this without an initial job interview, without a written contract, without an order, without knowing the employer, without being clearly explained what he had to do, as if Valentina were any object, not a person in the flesh: Valentina as an object. The fourth day the office was closed. I could not, moreover, tell this true story. It was enough to quote a French film that is in the halls these days, which all synthesizes, describes and collects them. It is two days, one night, by Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne, who tells of a reorganization of the company - just like that - in the result of which a woman in illness loses her job. Your pay is redistributed between the other workers and the head of department, when you return from the disease and ask for your place to be given back, organizes a referendum among others to know if they want you back as a colleague. Obviously it ends that others prefer to keep their money and leave her hungry. To say that jobs act opens the doors to these stories would be too much: these stories are already there. Jobs act generalizes them and does not fight them. I am told by some of my colleagues that the House has improved the text. I think whoever says that has never worked in the company; I do, and I know what I'm talking about. I am told that there will be the deforestation of atypical contractual forms. But what do I do with an indefinite contract that has been emptied of all guarantees, from the ban on remote controls to the ban on demise and free dismissal? Do you really think that the institute of disciplinary proceedings will still exist in practice? If as an employer I risk that disciplinary dismissal can be judged serious and unlawful, with annexed reinstatement, I will make the economic, and so many greetings. Another point I would like to stress is that the law of stability cuts resources for the recruitment of labour inspectors; so, how should we read the part of the delegation that talks about simplifying inspections at work? I fear that instead of simplification we should talk about dismantling, with the accompanying mortification of civilian inspectors and the NIL of the Carabinieri, whose vast experience risks being thrown into the nettles. This law runs counter to the spirit of Article 1 of the Constitution, which founds the Republic at work. I was hoping that this would therefore be a proxy for work, not a derogation law against work. To Marchionne and to Minister Guidi I want to say that it is better a real industrial policy and investments to put back Italian workers to manufacture mufflers and shock absorbers than to put four change in the law of stability for social shock absorbers. We needed a law that would give back confidence to the Italians who are looking for work, and not a confidence in a provision that would further insecure them. No, I am sorry, Madam President and members of the Government, I did not vote for this trust in October and I cannot vote for it in December. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u51	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u52	Madam President, I would like to begin by trying to clarify one point that is still outstanding: the employment relationship is not a commercial relationship in our country and the labour law in our country is constitutionalized, therefore changes, even important, that have been made within the measure we are discussing do not change this sign. I would like to say, on the one hand, that nobody puts anything in the attic after forty-five years, as has been said here about the Workers' Statute; on the other hand, that there are some points in the measure under discussion that I would have avoided. But on this point, concerning Article 18, I shall speak later. I am interested in two fundamental issues right now. The first is that we really need precise interventions in working relationships, especially in relation to two points: the management of social shock absorbers and their universalization in this phase of the crisis (I am not so convinced that the crisis will pass so quickly and that the ASPI, which came into force in 2013 and is going to be in a position, is the only instrument able to manage even such a complicated situation) and the assessment of the resources that have been placed at this time in the law of stability for social shock absorbers, in particular their ability to ensure decent coverage for people who are still in cash integration by way of derogation, at the end of mobility etc. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Experience tells me, however, that these resources are then placed also during the period, evaluating the situation that develops. But we are in a strange period: we are in the phase of the crisis really harsher, and the poison is in the tail (we hope that this is the tail of this crisis, I have difficulty thinking about it). The second issue is labour policy. In this case, Minister, the problem is to set up a series of resources that are able to guarantee the reorganization of a public system for the meeting of supply and demand, and I have some difficulty in thinking so. In this regard, I would like to stress that I do not like the advertising that is currently on television about how private agencies work well. I think that in this country we need a public direction that can connect with private agencies, but that does not allow them to assume control and programming of interventions. That is why we had tabled an amendment that these interventions and the implementing decrees relating to shock absorbers and the organisation of employment centres should precede those of the reorganization of the labour market. Minister, the part relating to paragraph 7 and the whole part of the contractual reorganization is really too general and with few guiding criteria. This will require very careful action and I hope that the parliamentary committees will be sufficiently involved in the next phase. There is another point on which I would like to speak, because I did not do it last time, and it is about vouchers. If you say you want to cancel the most precarious types of work, you have to be very careful. Here, if you will excuse me, Minister, I have a particular speaker, Mr Bellanova, who is well aware of the agricultural situation. Thinking about extending vouchers to agriculture means permanently insecuring that labour market. We have already had this experience, which has then been modified by Mr Fornero's intervention, and we have had clear evidence that, with the introduction of vouchers in the places where there is seasonality, a large amount of low-level unemployment disappears - and this is the most accurate figure. This means, Minister, that it is not that black work is brought out; it is simply seasonal work that is done only with vouchers. We cannot afford this, because entire economies are also organized on one element, namely that agricultural work focuses, for periods of non-employment in seasonality, on unemployment to reduced requirements. You have to be careful about these things, especially avoiding, given the way in which that paragraph came out, to find yourself in the summer seasonality with the workers with vouchers in the assembly chains of scooters. I come from Tuscany and in the Province of Pisa these things I wouldn't want to risk seeing them. Let me stop this point on vouchers - and here I really ask for your attention and commitment, if you think you can intervene - to the crucial point, namely Article 18. I would not have spoken on this, Minister, but it really seemed to me to be a kind of surrender to a coalition government with a number of different pressures. If one assumes that there is a form of permanent employment contract with increasing safeguards, one should be able to reach a point where these safeguards become full and growing; one gets to a certain point and there is a roof. Instead, these protections have become reduced, and this is not good. I insist that, as Article 18 has been structured, there is a risk that unjustified, unfair dismissals, that is, without just cause and justified reason, will be given reparation simply by means of a monetary allowance, or something of this kind. Minister, in this way anything can pass; I told you also at the previous reading: this rule will become the Trojan horse through which to pass many types of dismissal, even of different order. Minister, I have a very great difficulty and concern: I think that our production apparatus is very weak. This also applies to the quality of this production apparatus, which has identified competition based on reducing labour costs as the solution to all problems. Minister, we have already travelled this road and brought us to the present conditions, so we should avoid retracing it. This point of the measure, in particular, seems to me to be directed in this direction. I hope that the quantities put in place - because the productive apparatus is also weak from the economic point of view - will somehow be able to repair the damage done. One final point, Minister: we need the country to leave and we know perfectly well that no rule can in itself be a bit more work. I am concerned because Juncker's EUR 21 billion, which should stimulate growth, seems to me too small and very little adequate to determine the revival we need. As far as the other issues are concerned, Minister, we have a problem with the Stability Act, which concerns young people and older people, who have a VAT-numbered employment relationship. Minister, these boys and girls, under the current conditions, we cannot increase their contributions to 33%. We have to think of an intervention, even for just one year: we have to think of blocking the increase in contributions for these people, because otherwise it will result in the abandonment of VAT matches and a florilegio of new undeclared work. That is the other point I want to make, Minister: there is an increase in undeclared work at the moment, which we see every day. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups and Senator Taverna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u53	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u54	Madam President, Minister, I will make a few comments, because of the limited time available to me and also the fact that during these weeks, within the very strong political polemic that has crossed the country, there has indeed been an opportunity several times to explain the reasons why we, the Left ecology and freedom, together with our party, have opposed and still intend to oppose, with great force and clarity, the measure under consideration, which from our point of view is very wrong. I will not repeat - or I will do so very quickly, by slogan - the reasons why we have expressed this argument during these weeks and even a few minutes ago in the debate on the constitutional prejudices. We have had the opportunity to point out that on such an important and decisive subject, which concerns the living flesh of the country, it would have been a very different institutional framework, and we really think that the damage to Parliament's fundamental prerogatives and articles of the Constitution - such as Article 76 and Article 81 - is very serious. Mr President, I am among those, even among the opposition, who do not like and have contested the abuse of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because I believe that when an important instrument is abused, it ultimately loses its meaning and demeans it. In this case, however, I think that the constitutional prejudices were sacrosanct and that we are really faced with a measure which, on the other hand, would have deserved another kind of approach. Over the course of these weeks, we have naturally tried to explain the reasons why we have challenged this underlying hypocrisy - if I may say so - and this idea, which is regarded as modern, but in reality very ancient - indeed, I have to say old - which is based on the reduction of acquired rights and on a sort of separation of the world of work in two categories: that of the guaranteed and that of the not guaranteed. On the other hand, I believe that it does not lead and will not produce any progress towards that gigantic mass of precarious workers present in the country, but that instead, much more likely, will lead to the construction of a real mechanism to the decrease. We have contested another fundamental point, on which we have expressed a disagreement. I am referring to the idea that the economy of our country is not in crisis because there has been a structural difficulty with which we have measured ourselves over the past ten years (not only in Italy, but also in the other economies of this continent and also outside of it); the economy would not work because there have been mechanisms of protection such as Article 18. Telling this story means simply making political propaganda. But I frankly believe that, on such serious issues, before a country that is impoverishing itself and a social and economic crisis that is undermining the foundations of the Republican State as we have known it, we would have deserved more than just a call to propaganda. We have also had the opportunity to say - and we also say this in the light of the changes that have been made and that, from our point of view, they are obviously not enough to solve the problems that I am talking about - that we do not think at all that the mechanism introduced by the contract to protect increasing in some way eliminates the jungle of the thousand types of employment contracts that we have known throughout this time. On the contrary, we fear that this may be a further contract which is offered in some way and which does not solve the issue that has been advertised over the last few months; that is, it is not true that this mechanism affects the precariousness that goes first and foremost through the young generations of this country. Again, can I tell the Minister that there is a very strong contradiction to one point? You, on the one hand, say - and that is why you are contradictory - that stable employment and fixed employment are residuals of the twentieth-century thought, that the costs of rights should not be borne by the company, but transferred to the market with the help of the State, which must accompany people and promote employability, but then it is argued that access to temporary employment and the opportunity for a progressive protection contract are precisely the places of entry for that stable employment that can then be secured over time. Of the two: either it is worth a reasoning or it is worth the other, or we are out of the twentieth century or, even if we are out of the twentieth century, obviously some fundamental elements remain in all their seriousness and in all their complexity. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time, but I would like to make at least one political point, in the light of the debate we have heard over the last few months. The jobs act is treated and doomed - let me use this expression - as if it were the turning point, the novelty, the attempt that this Government makes to respond to an inevading social issue, just as we have known it in the past. We believe that precisely on this point the element of deception is unveiled. It is not true that the jobs act is in discontinuity: it is in perfect continuity with the underlying political choices that have been made over these years. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] There is a thread that starts from the Treu package, which passes through Law No. 30 of 2003, which arrives at the jobs act and defines a single underlying idea. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Cristofaro, please finish. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing, ma'am. Moreover, my colleagues Ichino and Sacconi, who have been the forefathers of this political thought, claim these things, and they do well, from their point of view, to claim them; it is those who during these years have contested those policies in the streets that today, on the contrary, are wrong in failing in relation to this fundamental point. Mr President, let me make the very last point. Maybe there's really an old guy in all this. I hear too often this element of old coming back, even when I hear some cultural appeal to political assumptions that have developed in the past, when I hear about Tony Blair and the Third Street. We are in a completely different historical phase. Those recipes have already failed once, but at least fifteen years ago they were new; today they are not, indeed they are old and old. I think you will notice this, but I am very sorry that, when you realize it, it will unfortunately be too late for the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u55	Given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u58	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I am only speaking for a few moments to remind this House of a small eight-year-old boy who was brutally murdered in my Province. This is a dramatic moment for the whole of our community and from this House I would like to give a symbolic hug - I think it is shared with all of you - to his family. Beyond and beyond this, however, before the spotlight turns off, before tomorrow none of us will remember who Andrea was - certainly, his family will never be able to do so and his companions will always carry him in the heart and that community will take so long before healing this wound - and just so that the story is not to be overcome by other bad news, I would like the attention if it were possible, Madam President, of our Ministry of Public Education. I would like to express a wish and a request in this House, and for this reason I am speaking. I would like, as happens in so many schools in our country, to ensure that an alert action can be carried out, in the sense of sending a message to families via cell phone if their child is not present that morning at school. Some schools in our country already do it out of practice, others don't. In my opinion it would be desirable for us to learn from this terrible and painful story, which happened a few days ago in Santa Croce Camerina, in my territory, in the province of Ragusa, so that such events never happen again. We don't know how to act. We cannot defend ourselves from the ogres except by an important, long action of education and listening to our children. We must all educate ourselves in dialogue, both young and old, but before this happens it will take a long time. One way to block, to brake and try anyway to reduce and prevent these dramas, which really shake and upset each one of us, could be a very simple text message, which becomes a practice and not an occasional choice limited to some schools. The Ministry, if it considers it useful (it would be desirable, in my opinion), could issue a circular inviting all school leaders to ensure that the family who accompanied their children to school can have news in case, in fact, they never entered the classroom. I don't think it's a complex thing, given the technology, but it would be an investment in extraordinarily important prevention. [[Applause from the PDe M5Se groups of Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u59	Senator Padua, the Presidency will ask for your request and, if I may give you a council, it would also be appropriate to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u62	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, mafia-type association, extortion, usury, corruption, auction disturbance, false billing, fraudulent transfer of values and money laundering: these are the crimes that the Public Prosecutor of Rome disputes to an entire political class that, in recent years, has governed the city of Rome and the Lazio Region by stealing and eating behind the backs of the Roman citizens. It seems the plot of a episode of "Romance criminale", but unfortunately it is the reality that the Romans have found themselves in front of the eyes this morning, and it is much worse than a fiction. To scroll through the list of the 37 arrested and of the more than 100 investigated, the chills come: inside there is the former mayor of the Capital, Gianni Alemanno; the regional councilor PD Eugenio Patanè; the group leader in the Region for Forza Italia Luca Gramazio; the president of the Assembly of Capitoline Mirko Coracati of the PD. We didn't miss anything. Their names are mixed with those of terrorists and bosses like Massimo Carminati, former extreme right-wing terrorist of the NAR - I remember the initials: Revolutionary Armed Nuclei - and former member of the band of the Magliana; Riccardo Brugia (in the past arrested for robbery and near the NAR environments) Roberto Lacopo, Matteo Calvio and Fabio Gaudenzi (with previous for robbery). In the middle, in this black skein in which the attorney of Rome has put his hands, excellent names also end. I remember only a few, because there are so many that it would be impossible to quote them all: the former CEO of the Eur Agency, Riccardo Mancini (already known for the bribes for the trolleybus of Laurentina), Carlo Pucci (a former executive Ente Eur), Luca Odevaine (a former deputy chief of staff of the former mayor of Rome Veltroni and head of the provincial police). Today we know with certainty that for years the city of Rome has been in the hands of right and left politicians who have made agreements with crime, that they have divided armchairs and public contracts, that they have taken bribes and lucratato on the services that were to make Rome a modern capital and that instead they have reduced it like an old and consunted woman, from which everyone has drawn and in which nothing works. Today we know with certainty that there is a corrupting system aimed at awarding public contracts and funding from the Municipality of Rome and the municipal companies, with interests also in the management of reception centres for immigrants, just to remember some events that have happened recently. We know that on the Capitol the Mafia reigns, a partnership rooted for years with widespread infiltrations into the entrepreneurial, political and institutional fabric. Today the Romans know why they have a system of public transport from the third world - the ATAC has 1.6 billion debts - because the roads flood in the first rains, because the sidewalks are full of piles of garbage, because the suburbs are in decay, because the schools are infested by mice - I saw it with my own eyes - and the gardens next to the nursery schools are full of bottles of methadone. Today the Romans know why all this: because those who had the duty, political and moral, to work for the good of Rome preferred to come to terms with the devil and eat, devour everything as long as possible. While respecting the principle of presumption of innocence enshrined in our Constitution, we demand that suspects pending trial take a step back. We also ask this House, as we have been doing for months, to immediately schedule our draft laws against corruption, mafia infiltrations and self-laundering of dirty money and those amending the current statute of limitations. The 5 Star Movement has been fighting for this for months, but the truth is that, beyond the usual proclamations, you have no intention of changing the state of things, of preventing that in the management of public bodies you can nest the underworld. You do not want to put your hand in the reorganization of the participants, an emblem of waste and corruption. Paolo Borsellino said: "Politics and Mafia are two powers that live on the control of the same territory: either they wage war or they agree." You preferred the words of Peter Lunardi who said: "The problems of the Mafia and Camorra have always been there and there will always be, unfortunately there are, you have to live with these realities" and you live with them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u65	BOTTICS (M5S). On 28 November a municipal council was held in Carrara entirely dedicated to the flood that hit the territory on 5 November. The Council took place in the presence of citizens who have remained - and I should like to stress this - since day 7 in a peaceful and constructive manner in the permanent assembly in the representation hall, now called the room of resistance affectionately. After listening to the speeches of the public, the motions presented by the various political forces began to be discussed. Some of these require a direct commitment to the Government, the Parliament, especially the local parliamentarians and the Tuscany Region. I therefore make myself spokesperson and ask to leave to the acts the motion presented by the council group of the 5 Star Movement, voted unanimously, in which the Government is asked: a new allocation of funds for the Urban Free Zone; the exemption for municipalities affected by events calamitous by the cuts foreseen by the revision of public expenditure for the 2014-2015 biennium; the freezing until 31 December 2014 - I ask, if possible, until 31 December 2015 or, at least, until 30 June 2015 - of the installments of the bank loans and of any other form of financing, without additional burdens, burden on damaged buildings and enterprises; the recognition and the relative compensation of 100% of the damages suffered; the enactment of a national law on natural disasters in order to respond in a unique way to the management of the great emergencies that favor and support the safety of the territory. I would also ask that tax deadlines be postponed until 31 December 2015, without additional charges for all those who have suffered damage. This motion, like other acts presented by the 5 Star Movement, is the result of the collaboration between active citizens, who every day undertake to make civil policy without asking for anything in return. A better Italy would be possible if each of us stripped of our arrogance and learned to listen and help those who live every day the problems we discuss in these closed classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u66	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of the motion you referred to in order to be annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-363.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, December 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.07.
