ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Last August 14 he died in Milan, on the eve of his 93rd birthday, Francesco Servello, said Franco, deputy from the III to the XI legislature and member of our Assembly in the XIII and XIV legislatures. The disappearance of Franco Servello was commented with regret and regret by personalities of all political affiliations. He was born on October 3, 1921 in Cambridge, United States. Back in Italy, in February 1946 he became, very young, editor-in-chief and later director of the magazine "Meridiano d'Italia," founded by his uncle, Franco De Agazio, killed in Milan by political opponents. His commitment to the Italian Social Movement from that moment was uninterrupted, becoming City Councillor in Milan from 1951 to 1963, as well as director of the federation of the Lombard capital. A member of the central committee, the national direction, the executive and the political secretariat of the Italian Social Movement, he performed the functions of national administrative secretary, vice-secretary vicar and president of the central committee. It was he who presided over the Congress of Fiuggi in January 1995 and again, in 2009, the Congress of National Alliance that sanctioned the dissolution of the party and the confluence in the People of Freedom. His parliamentary life began on 25 May 1958, with the election of a deputy in the Milan-Pavia constituency, where he was confirmed in all elections until 1994. During this long period he was a member of numerous standing committees and in particular of the RAI Supervisory Committee. He was also President of the Parliamentary Group of the Italian-National Right Social Movement of the Chamber of Deputies. On 21 April 1996, he was elected Senator at the Abbiategrasso-Magenta College in Lombardy, and during the 13th legislature he was National Alliance Leader in the Bicameral Committee for Constitutional Reforms and member of the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, as well as Vice President of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee. In 2001 he was re-elected to his college and, in June of the same year, assumed the position of Senator Questore "elder" to the Senate of the Republic in the XIV Legislature. The primary idea of his political ideal was the pacification of the Italians: "to transform shared history into widespread value" seemed to him as the way to achieve the full maturity of the Italian people and the nation. As a Member of this House, he was also a member, from 2003 to 2006, of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the causes of the concealment of files relating to Nazi-fascist crimes. He stated: I believe strongly and sincerely in the possibility that our country can finally win a shared memory. I think the time is ripe to look at history without the deforming lenses of ideology. I believe that Parliament should set the right example for a true pacification of the Italians. I think that in Italy the solemn moment has come for reconciliation and a tribute to memory. We must take for example the sense of civilization that has allowed other countries, also devastated in the past by civil war, to heal the plagues of their history. On February 28, 2006, Franco Servello gave a farewell speech in the Senate Hall from parliamentary activity, communicating that he would not return to the upcoming elections of April 2006; on May 3 of the same year he was appointed Grand Officer of the Republic and subsequently awarded the Ambrogino d'Oro by the City of Milan. In one of the most intense steps of that speech Franco Servello stated: As you all know, I belong to a political movement that has been present on the public scene since the difficult years of the post-war period. I was a representative of this formation in the institutions at the beginning of the 1950s, when I entered the City Council of Milan very different from today's. Well, I can say today that I have helped build, over time, the full institutional legitimacy of this family. Along with so many who are no longer there today, I worked to keep the right not only, of course, within democratic legality, but also to stop representing the excluded pole of Italian politics. As a man of the institutions who looked to the future he had to say, in an interview in 2006, immediately after leaving the parliamentary classrooms: We are not guardians of any museum (...). We must give a future to our past. Franco Servello was a political teacher for many, even in Italian politics. So, in memory of Franco Servello, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u7	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, it is up to me to remember Franco Servello, who was an undisputed protagonist, not only in the history of the Italian right, but in the political life of our country, as demonstrated by his eleven legislatures: nine in the Chamber and two in the Senate, where he ended his parliamentary career. Franco Servello had a high vision of the nation, of pacification and of the state. He writes in his autobiography: I have always considered that the sense of the State must exist even when the State pursues you. The sense of the State is first and foremost an internalized value. And you own it, or you don't own it. His political history may or may not be shared, but Franco Servello was a man of the institutions and for this he deserves our remembrance. With his authority and his balance he knew, even in difficult years of heated political confrontation, to earn the respect of his opponents, contributing to the full institutional legitimacy of his party, the Italian Social Movement. In the historical events of the Italian right he was always present, representing for many young people engaged in politics, especially in his Milan, a human and institutional point of reference. Finally, his ability to look to the future has made him the protagonist, as President of the national assembly, of that historical evolution that, with the turn of Fiuggi, led the then Italian Social Movement to become a modern party and Government, which was National Alliance. So, roots and future, to preserve the memory of the past in a shared memory, to look forward: this is the great lesson of Franco Servello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u10	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, having read many years ago Giulio Andreotti's famous book "Visti da custo" has taught me that, speaking of someone known and great, it is perhaps better to rely not on historical considerations, but on that anecdote that can allow you to better know the person you are talking about. Franco Servello, a great figure in the Italian Parliament and in this Chamber, certainly had some flaws too: she, President, referred to her commitment as manager in the capital of Lombardy, touching the fact that she was an interrist; everyone has some flaws, and this was that of Franco Servello, who, however, had many merits, such as that of being a young man voluntarily passionate about politics. Son of the Southern, born in America, he returned to Italy, not to Milan, but to the South of Italy, so not where the Red Flyer was already preparing for those years really lead, in which they killed his uncle; he still did not attend those places, but had knowledge of it as a family in the following years. In fact he chose to engage strongly in politics, at Abbiategrasso, where he was first elected city councilor of the surroundings and where he was then continuously elected, except in the period 1994-1996; years that he remembered with some pain for not being appointed at that time in the Government as responsible for tourism, which grieved him a lot and which he sometimes found himself talking about. The anecdote that concerns him is simple. As soon as I arrived in this House, a bit like all of you, I realized that there was an annoying air-conditioning system, so so many of us, sometimes, felt a breeze that caused a certain annoyance. For he had also been an engineer and was I asked him to intervene in this sense: looking at me with a mixture of sufficiency and paternalism, he told me to care about it personally and that, if I had solved the problem, he would give me a prize. In turn, somewhat annoyed by his sufficient paternalism, I made a commitment and discovered that that breeze was very difficult to eliminate because there were still no precise systems of regulation and minimal detection as there are today, when, after fourteen years, it was possible to install one making the annoyance of conditioning in this House lighter. Some time after this meeting with Franco Servello my father died, who was the same age. It was then, as we read so much in literature and as life then teaches, that I realized what a difference there could be between our generations. What had been a relationship determined by education turned into a relationship determined by consideration and admiration. That irony seemed to me, at that point, dictated by the enormous and enormous experience that only those who could develop an enormous experience of political battles in very difficult times, supported and defended by the love of politics, could pour into everyday life. So I try to imagine what would have been the astonishment of the senior commissioner in this House if, as today, someone had seen the President of the Council talking with his shirt out of his pants. Since Flaiano has been mentioned, I try to quote something better. I try to quote Leopardi, who said that the future is always better than the present or the past. The future of President Servello is our present, but perhaps he meant an even more future, because this future, today, I do not take it, while between the future and present I believe that one thing we must remember: when, responding for him to the appeal "Franco Servello", we must all still say "present." [[Applause from the LAG Group and the Senators Alicata, Amidei and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u13	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, at the age of 93, a historic father of the Italian right disappeared: Franco Servello. Servello has been a protagonist in the Italian Social Movement: parliamentary for eleven legislatures; executive of the federation of Milan, the city where he has always lived, precisely in terrible years, the famous years of lead; in more recent years he has also been administrator of the "Century of Italy." Servello was born in 1921 in the United States, but his family was of Calabrian origin. Immediately after the war he returned to Italy and in February 1946 we find him, still very young, former director responsible for the magazine "Meridiano d'Italia," founded and directed by his uncle, Franco De Agazio, who, however, at the time, could not direct it because he had been suspended from the order of journalists as director of newspapers of the Social Republic. He worked in the Italian Social Movement, becoming a city councilman in Milan from 1951 to 1963. In 1958 he was elected to the Milan-Pavia college in the Chamber of Deputies and was then reconfirmed. Later he also made two legislatures in the Senate, where in 2002 he was appointed Senior Commissioner of Palazzo Madama. Among other tasks, he was also a member of the RAI Supervisory Committee and also President of the Missino Group in Montecitorio. He never, in fact, denied his roots and opinions. In 1975 he founded the first radio on the right - Radio University - whose antennas were right on the roof of his house. Between the seventies and eighties his figure as a parliamentarians was poorly reconciled with those youth circles of the Italian Social Movement and with those environments of San Babila where, at times, a political extremism with suspicions of evil and anything else was fed. He was probably also aware of the limitations of a ruling class that deluded itself in those years of being able to combine subversivism and the call to order, an alternative to the national system and right. Servel to politics had truly dedicated an entire existence, had even sold some properties of his own property to pay the debts of the Social Movement. Just to remember that those were years, in 1972 he had saved himself from the lead of a terrorist who was waiting for him on the stairs of his house, only for a providential change of program: he had returned home before usual to watch - as it is said - on television at an Inter game, of which he was a fan and manager. We remember him when he spoke with his tone of loud voice, almost as a tribune: as many exponents, in fact, he was accustomed to keep a tone of the voice very high precisely because of the long practice of meetings in the square. We conclude, therefore, briefly with the contribution that we want to give: to the family and colleagues who knew him and esteemed him, come the condolences of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u16	FORMIGONI (NCD). Mr President, Friday, 3 October 2014 - as you said - Franco Servello would be 93 years old. Surely the event would have been celebrated by the many friends and admirers, even not of its political part, who have always appreciated its generous activity for the common good and who would come around to show their esteem and affection. Before a politician, Servello was a careful and prolific writer, he was a keen chronicler of the political history of the country, of which he was also an undisputed protagonist for many years, covering institutional and party positions. Servello was certainly political of race, proud of his political position, both in the difficult moments of the Social Movement to the opposition, and when his party assumed positions of government; he had, at the same time, moments of heated conflict with the political opponents, who did not prevent him, however, from always seeking a relationship of respect. We remember him as the protagonist of gestures of relaxation and attestation of esteem, often returned, both in his activity in the City Council and in the parliamentary one, a sign of his deep respect for the institutions. Servello has contributed with his authority to the full institutional legitimacy of the political part of which he has always been a part, actively participating in the historical evolution that has transformed the Italian Social Movement into National Alliance, a modern and European right-wing party. Servello certainly always represented the courage of the ideas, but also the deep respect for the political opponents. He was a person who never gave up and his tireless political activism was manifested both in daily political activity and in the electoral campaigns during which he was always engaged. Franco Servello has interpreted his long march in Republican Italy: from the risky action of political construction in post-war Milan to long parliamentary activity, from the responsibility as vice vicar secretary of the MSI of Almirante to the role of President of the last Congress of the MSI in Fiuggi, from the function of administrator of the Century of Italy to the office of Clover of the Senate in the 14th legislature. Mr President, you have mentioned some of the passages from your farewell speech to Parliament. I like to recall another expression for which I believe Servello must be remembered. He expressed in these terms his great sense of the State. He loved to say: I have always considered that the sense of the State must exist even when the State pursues you or is convinced that this is the case. The sense of the State is first and foremost an internalized value. Either you own it or you don't own it, and this is particularly significant said by a man, like Servello, who in 1947 had suffered an arbitrary and intimidating arrest and whose request for justice for the murder of his uncle always found a rubber wall. I believe that today we can remember Servello as an example of consistency and honesty, and this moves us to preserve the memory of the past to look forward. We can make our own, I think, his words, written in a sort of autobiography, where he said of himself: I don't allow myself to vote. I believe, however, that I can say that I have spent a difficult and sometimes almost closed life to the hope of a better future, but full of ideals, affections and renewed energies. So we can say, by Franco Servello: "Dear Franco, rest in peace." [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u19	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Franco Servello has left a journalist, a writer, but above all a politician, who has served the right and his ideals and values during his long existence. Since the foundation, Servello has been a protagonist of the Italian Social Movement and then, after the Congress of Fiuggi, of National Alliance. He has held many elective positions, as you mentioned, Mr President, and also by all those who preceded me, but despite being a Member of Parliament for many years, he was proud of his first election in Milan, in 1951, as City Councillor of that city. To remember Servello just mention the role of Parent Company in the House. Those who lived with him those years will remember that early in the morning he went to his office in the House and had the habit of preparing the files for all the Commissions and writing the observations on a note, which he then delivered to the MPs who went to work in the various Commissions. Rereading his long biography we realize how deep his political commitment has been, never split by his many other passions that he curated with extraordinary interest, including that of giving the prints numerous publications of political and historical content and, last but not least, the passion for football, which led him to be also an executive of his Inter. Servello had not lived in Italy the bad years of the civil war, but I think it is important to remember his great courage when, in February 1946, just 24 years old, he directed the magazine "Meridiano d'Italia" founded by Franco De Agazio, who was his uncle, then killed in Milan by Volante Rossa in 1947. De Agazio could not direct his newspaper as he had been suspended by the Order of Journalists because he was director of some newspapers of the Social Republic and had entrusted to his young nephew the direction of the newspaper. As is well known, those were not easy years, especially for those who professed right-wing ideals. The experience of directing the Meridian of Italy and then the tragic end of the founder forged the character of Franco Servello and probably pervaded all his later life. In the journalistic field Servello's commitment continued with the newspaper "La Fronda" and, subsequently, with the direction of the "Meridiano d'Italia" illustrated. He also served at the Century of Italy, which he administered for long years. It was already mentioned when, in 1975, he founded the first radio on the right, Radio University, whose antennas, as was mentioned earlier, had been placed right above his house. This channel in those difficult, turbulent and tragic years determined a sort of persecution against the adherents of the Italian Social Movement. Servello, however, was among those who did not give in to that fiery climate, also aware that the Italian Social Movement did not have among its members and among its representatives in the Chamber men involved in the prevailing clientelism and continued its political and truth battle. As I said, it was difficult years: young people on the right and left who clashed, while in Milan the silent majority was born. Servello was the protagonist of the great victory of the right in 1972 and discussed with Giulio Andreotti, who had declared that the votes of the right were in the refrigerator and that therefore Christian Democracy could resume them when he wanted, with an article written on the "Century of Italy," which was much appreciated not only by the men of the right, but a little by all those who looked at democracy in a certain way. Here, I like to remember Franco Servello as a man of action, operative, determined, faithful to his ideals and his values, who coincided throughout his life with those of the political right, who never betrayed and of which he knew how to grasp the evolutions over the years, including in 1995, for example, at the Congress of Fiuggi, which had come the time, after the long crossing in the desert of the first Republic, after the long years of pure and simple testimony of the Italian Social Movement, to assert the votes of so many millions of Italians who recognized themselves and still recognize themselves in the political right. How many times Servello said to us younger: I will be happy the day that we can say live peace among the Italians precisely on the occasion of a April 25th. This was Franco Servello. I think it is not only a political part, the part of which I am honored to have been a part of all my life, but I was very pleased to hear that politicians from other parties have also taken the floor to remember this character in politics. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u22	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, Franco Servello was a colleague who devoted his life to politics; of course, he was a journalist, militant, party leader, but above all a parliamentary, almost uninterruptedly and for almost fifty years. He presided over the last Congress of Alleanza Nazionale, which sanctioned the dissolution of the party and the confluence with Forza Italia in the People of Freedom, but he was above all one of the most prominent figures, as has already been mentioned, of the Italian Social Movement, particularly in Milan and in the North of Italy. Arrived in Italy at the end of the war, he was born from within the Social Movement and was probably among the missins the one with greater capacity for relations. A probo man, he was also available to sell some properties in order to pay his party's debts. I have highlighted these qualities, not having known him and therefore having collected in these days some elements on his political life, obviously not being able to support and share his ideas and also his way of doing politics, profoundly different from those of the party in which I militate. We recognize, however, and not from today, to him and to that political part of that epoch, as more authoritatively illustrated and testified by my colleague Gasparri, also other qualities, above all a genuine political passion and an absolute dedication to party life and to the care of militants, for whom Servello was a sure reference. With sincere and heartfelt participation, all the colleagues of the Democratic Party Group join in remembrance and commemoration of Franco Servello's family and the political community of which he was a member. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u23	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the government's information on recent alluvial events and related motions 1-00178 (text 2) presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00253, presented by Senator Fucksia and other senators, 1-00308 (text 2), presented by Senator Ruta and other senators, 1-00314, presented by Senator Tarquinio and other senators, 1-00316 (text 2), presented by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00324, presented by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, 1-00325, presented by Senator Bruni and other senators, and 1-00326, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, on the ground. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon's sitting the discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place. I inform you that a rewording of motion 308 (text 2) by Senator Ruta and other senators has been tabled. At the same time, motions 178 (text 2), 324 and 325 were withdrawn. I call on the State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Degani Sea and the Degani Sea to give an opinion on the motions submitted. (17.10 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u24	Thanking the senators for the work they have done on the text they have just presented, the Government gives a favourable opinion on motion 308 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u25	I would also ask the Government representative to give an opinion on the other motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u26	Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. With regard to motion 253 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators, the Government expresses an opinion contrary to the premises and, as far as the device is concerned, proposes a request for reformulation. Points (1) and (2) are in fact acceptable as a recommendation, while points 3), 4, 5, 6 and 7 are acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u27	Madam Undersecretary, we are not in the presence of an agenda, some of which can be accepted as a recommendation. The Government may, where appropriate, propose to give a favourable opinion if certain parts of the text are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u30	RUTA (PD). Mr President, in order to avoid misunderstandings about opinions, I would ask you to suspend the sitting for exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u31	Gladly, Senator Ruta, provided that there is a clear answer on the opinions. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u32	Colleagues, I address a greeting to the representatives of the association "The red pomegranate" who are attending our work, to which goes a personal thanks for the work they carry out in the field of disability. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u33	Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to announce the withdrawal of motion 326 at my first signature, which is contained in motion 308 (text 3), having found in the mechanism of convergence points. Therefore, all signatures at the bottom of motion 326 will be recorded in the motion of which Senator Ruta is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u37	I also inform you that motion 314 has been withdrawn. I call on the Government representative to comment on the motions in question, bearing in mind that a favourable opinion has already been expressed on motion 308 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u38	Mr President, as far as motion 253 is concerned, I am against the premises, whereas, with regard to the operative part, the opinion is contrary to points 1 and 2, and in favour of points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. On the other hand, with regard to motion 316 (text 2), I am opposed to the premises, whereas, with regard to the operative part, the opinion is in favour of points 1), 3), 4, 5 and 7, and contrary to points 2 and 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u41	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for the split vote on motion 253. I would also like to point out that the first point is taken up, virtually identical, at the last point on the unitary motion. In fact, all the points contained in motion 253, of which I am first signatory, from (1) to (7), are contained in motion 308 (text 3). The only difference is that in the unitary motion the Marche Region is not named. This had a logic inherent in the greater weakness compared to the specific motions, since intervening throughout the national territory there was a greater limit of tolerance to judge the different situations, because, precisely, the unitary motion includes all the national territory. I would therefore stress that all the points of my motion are contained in motion 308 (text 3) and that the only thing that does not appear in the single motion is the word "Marche". I therefore want to see who will feel like voting on this motion because that would certainly make the citizens of the Marche feel like a B-series. We do not understand why, instead, being more protected, being the Marche one of the regions that has recorded the greatest number of victims and major damages, it must even find itself in the background. This seems to me to be an incongruity and a lack of common sense. It would have been more logical and more common sense to vote for the generic motion for the whole national territory, but also to accept the other two motions that entered more specifically two territories such as the Marches and the Gargano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u44	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I also call for the separate vote on motion 316 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When the time comes, we will see if the House agrees. WOMAN (M5S). I ask in advance to avoid doing so at the last minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u47	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak in order to acknowledge that all the political groups have done an important job in drawing up their own motion. However, I would also like to point out that these motions have not been included in another motion. In fact, a unitary motion was built. The Forza Italia Group, the New Centro-Right Group, the Lega Nord and Autonomous Groups, LAGs and SEL have withdrawn their motions because we have made our own proposals that came from all the Groups. We shared the best demands; the same thing we did with the 5 Star Movement Group, collecting, as my colleague Mrs Fucksia said, all the most important and qualifying intentions. We have come, even with Mrs Donno, to consider a number of issues and to highlight 23 points for a simple reason, and not to say everything and not to say anything. The whole of those points and the requests received constitute a complete frame of reference, with respect to which it is clear that we intend to abstain from the rotation of the other motions, if they are not withdrawn. We do not want to vote against them because we have made them our own, even if not in all their points. It is not, therefore, the problem of protecting one region rather than another. In one of the main points, we made it clear that, at the next Council of Ministers, the Government is committed to declaring the state of emergency. We have put it as a qualifying point, specifying in the premises that the Environment Minister has given the guarantee in this House that he will declare the state of emergency in the next Council of Ministers. We put it back on the premises. There is, therefore, no act against it, but there is a desire to unite and keep the guard of the entire Parliament, and therefore of the Senate, against the Government, to ensure that those points are respected in its daily action. Let me give you one example, President. In the motion of Senator De Petris an investment of one billion euros was required, at least every year since 2015, for the Extraordinary Plan of interventions on hydrogeological failure. This point was taken up and shared by all the Groups. I could make the same speech for some points highlighted by Forza Italia as by the New Right Centro and the North League: they have become shared points and I think this is an excellent method to which I want to hope that the 5 Star Movement can join. If that is not possible, we will abstain on their motions and vote ours firmly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u50	WOMAN (M5S). President, I would like to make a brief comment on the latest statements made by Senator Ruta. First of all, I would like to point out that we have not tried to take many decisive steps or steps in relation to our motion for my first signature, but of course it concerns the whole Group. With regard to certain clarifications that we wanted to include in the motion, I must say that they were rejected with the justification that, from their point of view, they could not be accepted because the Government had already undertaken to convene the Council of Ministers to have the state of emergency declared. The government would actually have had to declare the state of emergency at the time, but that is not the point. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The main issue concerns the failure to accept our proposal for reformulation regarding the motion that has been tabled, not only for the Gargano, but for all the Italian territories affected by the latest atmospheric events. We would like to point out that the money that must be paid to compensate for the shortcomings of the Government already determined throughout the national territory derives from the fact that it does not want to include the expenditure forecast in the Stability Pact, providing compensation for the affected territories where a significant financial balance had possibly occurred. I would therefore ask Senator Ruta to be more precise in the presentation of the actual facts. One more thing, and I'll finish. Since there has been a favourable opinion from Mr Degani on the motion that we have tabled and to which I am referring at the moment, I do not see why Senator Ruta and the Group he represents should not vote in favour of our motion, as Mr Ruta announced a vote of abstention just now. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to compensate the citizens who have suffered damage throughout the national territory, let us see that you are on the side of the citizens, not by abstaining, but by expressing your support for the points of the motion to which the Undersecretary referred, by means of a split vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Colleagues, I remind everyone, even if perhaps I should not have to do so, that after these motions - on which we are discussing, excluding this morning's sitting, since noon yesterday - we must proceed to the examination of the decree-law on dejurisdiction - I was able to say this for the first time in my life without mistake - that I think it should end by tomorrow's day. I therefore think that self-quotas are absolutely compulsory, otherwise the examination of the measure could end in an emergency which has been exceeded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u54	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, I will do my best. I would, of course, like to thank the Undersecretary for having spent all her energies in trying to bring us, at the end, to the unitary motion in question, which addresses the issue of hydrogeological failure with great competence, offering considerable ideas for reflection that we can all share, as well as clear guidelines on the problem, lines that, among other things, fully reflect what Minister Galletti announced in his information regarding preventive measures and the approach itself to the issue of hydrogeological failure, an approach focused on prevention. I fully agree with what the Minister said: investing in prevention means saving human lives and protecting the territory, in addition to the not insignificant fact that prevention involves a targeted and effective management of resources that can achieve savings for the State, because the resources must be allocated and used, but used well: this concerns the operational choices that are made, also in a strategic key. In this sense our country is called to assume specific responsibilities, because the intervention in the local center must be favored, facilitated and supported in a concrete and efficient way by a policy and a strategy that come from the center and that in the matter of prevention know how to invest intelligently in all those ordinary maintenance operations (from the beehives to the banks, from the pipes to the sewers, from the wooded land and anything else) able to effectively contain the risk of failure. It is clear that this is the most useful approach, we need resources and operational tools, as well as a review of the legislation, which allows agile action but also determination of responsibilities. All elements on which we are fully in line with the Government's instructions. The definition of a special steering booth on hydrogeological failure in the Council Presidency gives us the measure of how important this problem is being given, and it is also a positive factor with a view to defining the priorities and strategic lines of an intervention which, in order to be effective, must be forward-looking. It is no longer a question of making an analysis of the problems, which have been analyzed and deepened for a long time over the years, every season, flood or calamitous event, precisely because we now confront ourselves seasonally with the tragicity of alluvial events; the many of our fellow citizens know it well that now, with great bitterness and anger, they find themselves shoveling the mud. The picture we know now and we know the criticalities of the territory in a punctual way. It is a question of putting in place effective actions, identifying the priorities, accelerating the security of the territory, using fully the resources available, making clearer and more effective the decision-making and operational centers in charge of the Regions, to ensure the realization of the works in front of a constantly hostile bureaucracy, and flanking the maintenance an act of contrast to the abuse and a safety of those areas in which this has irremediably conditioned the territory. I would also like to remind you of a point on which a thoughtful reflection must be carried out: the prediction, where possible, of a progressive relocation of housing and productive settlements in areas at high hydrogeological risk. Because where the soil has been manipulated and consumed irreparably, in spite of any safety standard in the design, the only prevention of the effects of the failure, in the impossibility of restoring the territory, is the relocation of the settlements. To this must be added the safety and emergency management plans, which should not be thought of as an alternative remedy to the lack of maintenance (also because in this case they are destined to be irreparably undersized in relation to the problem). I greatly appreciated the speeches that have been made on the subject today, even in a heated way, because the hydrogeological failure is a wound for our country and for every citizen. I agree with the many initiatives that have been proposed on this subject and which give the idea of how necessary the facts are now and a concrete and shared commitment, which leaves no room for the logic of partisanism. That is why I voted in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. For Italy in motion 308 (text 3), in the persuasion that, as I have had occasion to recall this morning, the problem of hydrogeological failure affects us all and on it we are all called to responsibility. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u57	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we must, unfortunately, point out that we have been talking about hydrogeological failure for over a year and a half now, almost always saying the same things. The analyses are already done: the Italian territory is fragile, the resources available are often insufficient and, above all, we have all understood how there is a lack of governance of the system. As far as we are concerned, we have said so on many occasions: we have already said this to the previous Government last year, during a question time with the Environment Minister; we have said this in our Environment Commission; we have said this at the ANBI conference; and we have said this on many other occasions, such as in meetings with naturalistic engineers. This Senate - it has been remembered several times - last 4 October 2013 approved an agenda that officially committed the Government to provide additional financial resources to be allocated to the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk, the establishment of the National Fund for the defence of the soil and, above all, to affect the governance of the water and the soil. Now, once again, after the tragic events of late summer, we find ourselves examining these motions, which sincerely taste like a frustrating repetition. Similarly, I must sincerely say that it is sad and frustrating to observe this minute of silence every time to remember the victims. It is good that, at this point, the government instead acts and finally moves from analysis and minutes of silence to something concrete. We are here to give all our support in what is our responsibility, but we must face the situation, because finally there must be an authoritative and serious government, that ferries the country from the stage and logic of the emergency to those of the prevention and ordinary maintenance of the ground. The proposals are clear and the problems are essentially three. On the financial front, as has been said several times, President Renzi has the opportunity in recent days to use the precious opportunity of the next European Council to raise the issue of funding and to ensure that these funds are decommissioned from the Stability Pact. Moreover, this is done whenever damage occurs, because all emergency interventions, which cost ten times as much as prevention, are then broken down by the Stability Pact. It would be a matter of common sense to do so instead because of the cost of preventive measures, rather than then having to intervene in the disasters that have occurred. On the governance front - we have said it and repeated it a thousand times - we need a single steering booth: it seems that the government is oriented in this direction, but now we hope to see it at work. Having shared the Ruta motion, of which we are signatories, we support the idea, for example, of having a structure already present throughout the territory, such as the reclamation consortia, the ordinary action of soil maintenance. Then there is to look at the type of interventions. We recommend that we change our strategy, as I believe everyone has understood. We cannot continue to tackle this problem by putting cement on concrete again. Instead, I think we need to use the sources of naturalistic engineering, which explain how to intervene and with what attitude. There is another very important aspect, namely the need to avoid abandoning agricultural land and instead to encourage the return to agriculture and land maintenance, as it used to be. We will therefore vote in favour of motion 308 (text 3), which is shared, since it identifies many of our approaches. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u60	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in the light of the arguments that have already been extensively developed in the debate, I must say that I agree with all the considerations that have been brought to this House. However, I would like to submit two brief and simple considerations, with reference to the fact that the hydrogeological failure represents a decidedly challenging challenge for those who have the task of administering our territory. More and more often - we have already remembered - we are faced with events - such as flooding, landslides of hills and mountains, earthquakes and landslides - that bring to their knees entire Regions, unfortunately with loss of human lives and serious damage to our landscape and architectural heritage, as well as economic damage increasingly difficult to sustain. These events in recent years seem to be happening more frequently than in the recent past, so the simple question that citizens ask themselves is: is this fatality or is there a clear human responsibility? Evidently, the two causes are intertwined. Climate change, more and more sudden and sudden, often finds man unprepared, who has lost his natural vocation of bond with the territory: an ancient bond, made of respect, fears and skills matured over the millennia in managing the hydraulic aspects and in carefully choosing where to install the most suitable housing units and materials in the buildings. I take, for example, the tragic flood of October 2000 in Valle d'Aosta, where, in 24 hours, there were 20 deaths. Well, the only safe places in the course of that hell of water, mud and stones were the old medieval villages, churches, castles and the quadrilateral of the Roman Aosta, the ancient Augusta Praetoria Salassorum. In these places there was irrelevant damage, all around hell. Let us then take back the ancient wisdom of our ancestors and their ability to look at and observe nature, with respect and complicity. Our ancestors did not depend on European regulations, laws and decrees that add together, overlap and tangle. I personally believe that the current legislation is sufficient. We must be guided by common sense, respect, humility and experience. Attention to impoverishing local authorities and regions - I know I am going here in countertrend - of resources: scandals and bad examples must not weaken the authorities, who are the guardians of the territory par excellence; good local administrators are the only ones who know and know where and how to intervene effectively; let's give them still confidence to build a serious policy of protection of the territory. On behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, I express my full solidarity with the affected territories and my condolences to the families affected by the grave mourning, declaring the vote in favour of motion 308, of which Senator Ruta is the first signatory. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u63	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Senator, Mr Galletti, with yesterday's information, said: It is no longer acceptable that in a civil society, modern and well-structured like ours, the consequence of a storm often becomes a catastrophe for entire communities, with innocent victims and enormous difficulties to return to a normal life. Good. The Minister also added that a profound change of mentality is needed and that the Municipalities must have the courage and seriousness, which have often been lacking, to ban construction in areas with high hydrogeological risk. All right, Minister, but the North League wants to point out that, in this area too, not all municipalities are equal. There are local authorities that are virtuous and other responsible, to which it is necessary to give the right prominence, for good and for evil. There are municipalities that for years have been endowed with the geological study of the territory and of the PAI, the plan extracted for the hydrogeological order, establishing zones of absolute inedificability, and others that do not have these plans and that, therefore, still allow irresponsible cementifications! There are municipalities that, although with more and more limited resources, maintain the hives, the sewer pipes and those of the meteoric waters (also with the simple, fundamental, but often neglected cleaning of the drains), and others that, instead, do not and prefer to spend their money on fireworks or other futile initiatives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There are municipalities that, for years, have had the civil protection plan for emergency management and others that do not yet have it. In Calabria, for example, only 54 percent of the municipalities have the plan, but it is not the worst: in Sicily the figure stands at 49 percent, in Lazio at 40 percent, down to 39 percent of Campania. Why do we never take action for manifest inability against unfulfilled administrators and, therefore, co-responsibility for environmental disasters that cause considerable material, economic and social damage? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You see, Minister, the mud angels of all of Italy, young people, citizens always ready to roll up their sleeves, operators and volunteers of the Civil Protection to which my and our praise goes, must not be functional to rhetoric and be transformed into heroes in order to hide the absence of the defaulters. The Minister also said yesterday that the issue of countering hydrogeological failure has been at the heart of the government's political agenda since its establishment. In fact, I recall that one of Prime Minister Renzi's first slides indicated appropriations of EUR 1.5 billion. But it was yet another election ad. The reality speaks differently: from 2008 to the present state funding has fallen sharply; the majority of the 2.3 billion euros available to the territorial authorities that finance the program agreements has still allocated it to the Berlusconi Government, with Lega and PdL, together with the Regions involved. But, for example, the Law of Stability 2014 of the Letta Government (supported substantially by the same current majority forces), which had to respond to the commitments of the agenda of September 2013, approved unanimously, authorized a cost for prevention in the three-year period of only 180 million euros, of which only 30 million for the current year. Also the decree unlocks Italy, currently under examination of the Chamber (returned to the Committee budget because it does not cover), with the exception of 110 million euros for interventions of hydraulic installation of the water courses, but in the metropolitan areas alone, does not allocate new resources, while it establishes a withdrawal fund where - with an ulterior role attributed to ISPRA, that as a North League we do not share - should converge the funds allocated also on date before 2009 for mitigation interventions, for which the works have not yet started. It is an illusion to think that there are significant figures in this fund. There will certainly be appeals. And we come to the Stability Act for 2015. Through new slides, the only information available to date (we are, in fact, still waiting for the signature of the Head of State, the boiling of the General Accounting of the State, but also of the letter with prescriptions of the European Commission), seems - I say - there is nothing. On the contrary, there is a certainty, the spending review in the renziana version, which has a consolidated feature: very heavy linear cuts to the territorial authorities. There is a cut to the municipalities: to them with the left hand you give the carrot, a ceiling of 1 billion euros as a derogation to the Pact (not new money, but the authorization to spend their own), but the problem is that with the right hand you use the stick with a cut of 1,2 billion euros. A mockery, a mockery! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And so the virtuous mayors will be forced, on the one hand, to raise the local taxes and, on the other, to reduce the services, to close the schools of the hamlets and of the mountain municipalities and therefore the abandonment of the territory and therefore the neglect of the same. But it's gonna get worse in the provinces. No derogation from the Pact for them, but only a heavy cut of EUR 1 billion. These bodies, not eliminated, will have no money for heating in the schools and for the maintenance of the roads, let alone what they will do for the containment of the failure: little or nothing. I'm gonna finish. In order for today's sitting and yesterday's sitting to be useful, therefore effective, and not to be remembered as yet another production of fried air, Minister, the Government must, first and foremost, exclude from the Stability Pact expenditure on ground protection and maintenance operations. Secondly, it must promptly recognise the states of emergency demanded by the territories actually affected (underline: really) by natural disasters and speed up the transfer of resources for damages actions to private individuals, in particular for economic activities, and to territorial authorities. Thirdly, it must put more resources not only for prevention, but also on the Emergency Fund managed by Civil Protection in order to meet the many emergencies and needs of the territories: because prevention is better than cure, since the damage found for 14 of the 21 national emergencies declared in the last three years only amount to 2,3 billion euros. Gabrielli's words must be taken seriously when, in the aftermath of the events in Genoa, he compared himself to a doctor sent with a box of aspirin to the front of a war in a country where they were made sanatories only to make cash. A real accusation of politics! Not just Genoa. There are Parma, the Maremma, the area of Muggia in Trieste, that of Alexandria (as Mr Fornaro pointed out), the Gargano. But there is above all the Lombardy, Region that since June is continuously hit by bad weather and that already from July 25 has asked, with successive integrations, the recognition of the state of emergency. Minister Galletti, in his reply yesterday, made a commitment to recognize the state of emergency at the Gargano. Good. The Minister Galletti knows that Governor Maroni has already long carried out the reconnaissance of the damages: they are heavy, quantified in more than 80 million, of which 5.6 in my province of Lecco alone. Many expenses have already been anticipated by the municipalities. I therefore hope that the forthcoming Council of Ministers will also consider the Lombards of many Provinces, including those affected by the Seveso flood. The joint motion, in which almost all the motions of the Groups converge, then withdrawn, sees the favorable vote of the North League, which has made a decisive contribution to the shared document. It is now up to the Government to follow up on its commitments. The North League will not make discounts in the face of any decommitments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u66	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we believe that the best way to concretely express solidarity and closeness to all the territories and communities that have been affected not only by recent events, but by all those that have occurred punctually, alas, in recent times is to ensure that the issue of soil protection and hydrogeological failure becomes the absolute priority of government intervention. We cannot continue to underestimate, as unfortunately has been done in all these years, not only the dramatic data coming from the various events, landslides and floods, but also the scientific data, now completely in our hands, in the hands of the Ministry of the Environment and of all the agencies in charge. These data tell us about a country that is chronically ill. I do not want to recall here the pointy elements that my colleague Cervellini, in illustrating our motion, wanted to recall with precision, but I would like to add to them the consideration that our country, so marked by the drama of the disaster, is one of the countries most exposed to climate change. We can no longer consider the events that inevitably happen as extremes, because they have now become almost the norm. In fact, the latest data from the IPCC report are clear and show that we are now immersed in what almost all scientists consider climate chaos. Not only that, but when I say that our country is particularly exposed it is because precisely in that report it is said that the Mediterranean area is perhaps the most at risk for a number of reasons and peculiarities. In the Mediterranean area, our country, not only because of its orographic structure, but precisely because of the interventions and continuous violence it has suffered, is certainly in a situation of perennial risk. This is the result not of a general underestimation, but of an idea that has meant that the development, in this country of ours, was continuously conceived as cementification, as the realization of works; and not only those abusive, look, because many of these interventions have been made, alas, in the full regularity and legality of regulatory plans and concessions that have allowed to build in areas at high hydrogeological risk or in areas of expansion of the river, with all that followed. It is clear that this means that we need not only a general approach, but to understand that the only way to reverse the trend is to consider as an absolute priority intervention for soil protection and therefore a multiannual organic plan, which means identifying interventions, identifying resources, identifying and making a map of all settlements and therefore starting an operation, for example, of relocations: these actions must become, I repeat, the absolute priority. The Minister has come here to tell us that we must change: we expect this change not only to be recorded in the motions that we regularly vote, perhaps even unanimously, but to become a real and concrete fact. We therefore need clear and certain resources: it is no longer enough to repeat the 2.1 billion chant that has been recovered from the unspent funds. In the meantime, we need to review all the projects and update them and have, as we asked for in our motion and as it was included in motion 308 (text 3), certain appropriations of resources in the next stability law and not the four money that was included in the last maneuver. A different and faster mechanism for the proclamation of the state of emergency must also be developed with punctuality. We take note of the Minister's statements regarding, for example, the Gargano, and we hope that the actions will follow. Mr President, today we are going to vote in favour of unitary motion 308 (text 3), to which we have contributed by withdrawing our motion and by having a large number of important points included in it, but we also have to be frank that last time we adopted a unitary agenda, but then, in the debate on the Stability Act, we have all been given opinions which are contrary to the amendments and therefore perhaps we will have to move on to a phase of self-government in Parliament, which takes on itself the role of starting this which is an absolute priority! Otherwise, we will no longer be able to tolerate the commemorations of the dead, because it will mean that all will be responsible for those who will not act promptly and will not have realized that you can no longer joke! The development, progress and economic recovery of our country also pass today for the restoration of our territory and for the protection of the soil. These are the works that serve our country. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] That is why we will once again vote in favour of a joint motion. We will then see whether the stability law and the Council of Ministers will keep their promises on the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u67	Conclude, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u68	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). This time, however, we will no longer be available to do discounts to anyone, because I believe that the country will no longer be able to endure a situation of total disinterest. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u71	Senator Marinello, I raise yet another useful appeal. MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, I will try to join your invitation and I will not talk about what happened in Genoa, in Maremma, in Parma, in Gargano and in other areas of Italy, nor about the activities carried out in this period since 13th Standing Commission, which I chair, nor do I intend to talk about climate change, as issues are well known. Among other things, the expression "water bomb," which we often hear in the media, does not appeal to me personally. It is certain that we have dissipated resources over the last few years. When I speak of dissapearing resources, I refer to the waste of land and to man's disasters. They have been carried out beyond latitudes, in the South and in the North: there is from this point of view no part of a virtuous country that can give lessons to the other part of the country. For once, friends who are used to giving lessons can, in my opinion, be silent, for good reason. As far as the issue of soil consumption is concerned, it is well known, and I believe that we must follow on from this, taking legislative measures as soon as possible, starting from the principle that soil is not available and not renewable and that a wise use of this resource is the only possible strategy for such disasters. But what is urgently needed today is to try to relaunch a real plan for reducing hydrogeological risk. In the joint motion that has been drawn up, a number of points are well established, which contain the main issues. In my opinion, a fundamental concept that we must absolutely consider is the return of man to a series of traditional activities, which over the centuries have ensured prevention. One of the main concepts we need to take care of is the wise use of reclamation, through a reinterpretation of the role of reclamation consortia. On this subject, the National Association of Irrigation Bonifications and Land Improvements (ANBI) has several times presented a national plan, which provides for a series of small but significant interventions, which spread throughout the national territory can certainly help to mitigate the disasters that we have recorded during this last period. In motion 308 (text 3), these points are well highlighted. I believe that we must try to encourage the Government to continue with the initiatives it has undertaken so far, but also to work on legislative and regulatory simplification, because on these issues there are several bodies involved, the bureaucratic and administrative delays and the interlocutors: therefore, focusing also on simplification can represent a good strategy. Let us then begin to vote with a significant majority from this evening, because there is clearly no division on these issues. I believe that giving a signal of cohesion is a significant political moment. So let us vote on a motion of this kind with important numbers, but, beyond the vote we are going to make tonight, let us try to use all the regulatory moments, which in the coming weeks and months will affect the work of this House, in order to put an end, piece by piece, to the bureaucratic and administrative delays I was talking about earlier and, above all, to find the fundamental resources to give the answers. The password must be more prevention and less intervention in emergency situations. This, I believe, must be the mission shared by all of us and I believe that this evening's vote acclaims the unanimous will of this House. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u72	Thank you, Senator Marinello, for accepting my solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u75	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, even those still immersed in the mud, which I hope will listen to this debate, have recently passed away on 9 October. I say this date because perhaps many of you do not remember it: it was October 9, 1963 when 270 million cubic meters of rocks and landslides in the Vajont basin. It's been 51 years. Last year was the 50th anniversary of this massacre that is not due to natural events or calamities, but to man's faults and I, as I have been doing for eight years now, went to those places to be together with some of the survivors. Last year I went with the MPs of the 5 Star Movement. We talked to the survivors to tell us the long wave, what happened after the events of Vajont. Today we are talking about hydrogeological failure, as if it were something else. We have heard from the words of Ministers and Undersecretaries various interventions and always blame someone, cementification and who did it. We have always talked about others by forgetting that the first culprits are here, in this Parliament, people who have been in here for twenty or thirty years and have not legislated when there was need and have legislated in other cases, when there was no need to legislate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have heard Mr Lupi say at Porta a Porta, another of the Houses of this Parliament, that it is the fault of the citizens and businesses who resort to the TAR if the work to fix the hydraulic works necessary to avoid these disasters is blocked. Do you understand? It's the business's fault. Now I am told that in Genoa it is the fault of the companies that have resorted to the TAR because the procedure was illegitimate or there were other vices. Instead of thinking about the decree unlocks Italy as a measure that unlocks the works of reconstruction, I would point out that probably that measure will unlock all those works that will be added to that wild cementification that has been there in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The unblocking Italy, of which this Government boasts because it will help to unlock the works in order to put this country back, will actually add to the many works that have devastated this country. Today we are here to discuss these motions. Everything comes from a push we wanted to give. We pressed to discuss this after the events of the Gargano with a motion tabled at the time, which concerned precisely the events that took place on 2 and 3 September in the Gargano. Afterwards there were other tragic events, as often happens in autumn and spring. These have been added. What I want to read now, however, is a heartfelt appeal from a Gargano citizen. It's not my words, it's Pino's, a friend of Peschici's. I make myself his spokesperson, of those who have experienced the tragedy and still live the long wave of it. Pino writes: 47 days have passed since the last calamity that directly struck Peschici and Gargano, after the fire of 2007 that devastated much of Gargano (...). The material and human damage are immense, the channels that convey much of the water of the Umbra Forest are insufficient, dirty and in some cases non-existent. On TV and through some journalists the idea has been passed that everything is due to abuse that, of course, there is and is a problem, but not in this case. An atmospheric event of exceptional magnitude that has not found its vent in the existing instruments. The carelessness is the watchword and the failure of those who had to clean the channels! The money for the works is never there, it would take 40 billion euros and in the last law of stability 180 million are allocated. On the other hand, it seems that for the F-35 there are, of course: EUR 10 billion. I am sorry for Genoa and for the Genoese, as well as for all the other cities in northern Italy affected by the last events: I see their eyes, their despair and the thought of not being able to start again. But I would not want every tragedy to make us forget the others that happened a short time before, even as our case was very short before. We don't beg money to guarantee our previous dignified lifestyle. No! We are asking for real, concrete help. Yes. Entrepreneurs who are torn apart, who in addition to the damage suffered do not have the money to start again, the insurances that entrench themselves behind clauses and do not recognize the due, bank loans and enterprises that still today suffer from the loaning by Equitalia & Agenzia delle Entrance, as well as from the state and municipal taxes, have nothing more. The army instead of making absurd peace wars could help to rebuild a nation hit by a war, yes, devious caused by the crisis and the guilty negligence of entire generations of politicians, who is giving my children an Italy in rubble, starting from the realization of canals, helping farmers in difficulties that cannot bear the expense of private vehicles and vehicles (...). I quote in this regard the cry of a farmer who for 70 years hoeed his land producing the organic product, which from the earth comes directly to the consumer who created an income, with his daily sweat for his family also realizing tourist houses. He doesn't want a penny for furniture, furnishings, furnishings, he just wants a concrete help so that his land can be cultivated again, to continue to produce those organic products that his arms have made famous all over the world (...). Now, as expected, perhaps for a few weeks still for us, the usual technical tables and endless discussions will be chased. We will see as jackals the usual politicians and technicians of all the regional and national authorities, always the same ones that create the damage and that after words want to solve it, but the channels, we are sure, will remain dirty and emergency situations always on our communities. Renzi has come, for the first time on the Gargano, to take the helicopter walk in Peschici and on the Gargano, with the usual promise "we will not leave you alone" (...), but only now - only now - he remembered to deliberate the state of calamity, the state of emergency. This was followed by a rise of voice, of these hours, and the usual lawsuit of the discharge: it was the Government; no, the Region did not present the account; no, it is the Municipality that gave us incorrect data, etc. etc. Do you want to see that it's the citizen's fault in the end? In these disasters a citizen should not be found alone, but be sure that at his side there is the State, but history tells me that it is only thanks to the help of local volunteers (...) and of all Italy that you can face these situations. The institutions, as well as in the fire of 24 July 2007, intervened after hours and hours from the alert launched at 6.30 a.m. As usual, they have abandoned us to our destiny and then intervene in mass accompanied by the usual media to disaster implemented. Unfortunately, in this immense misfortune many have lost one of their loved ones, others have been injured (...). But we Garganici are rocks and just like in 2007 we will be able to get up and continue to make our activities even more beautiful and comfortable and we will fight so that our town and our beautiful bay of Peschici return to be that beautiful postcard that all South Italy envied us. These are the words of Pino, but they can be the words of any other citizen who has been struck in recent months by natural disasters and not only. I think of L'Aquila, I think of Emilia Romagna. All the citizens finally rolled up their sleeves and made their lands more beautiful than before, but with difficulty, without the state next door. As far as the motions presented are concerned, what we imagined happened: the ballet of the single motion which, in the end, led to a beautiful text that includes so many "value", so many "foresee" and "value the opportunity." The demands made in our motions were clear and contained in six precise points. These included, for example, measures to suspend the payment of taxes, to suspend the payment of taxes for businesses and people in difficulty, interventions to remove the costs of interventions to combat hydrogeological disruption from the Stability Pact. Clear, precise commitments, not opportunity assessments, or forecasts. Our goal is not the policy of trying to achieve a result against or in favour of someone. Here our goal are the citizens of Gargano and all the lands that have been affected by disasters. Our objective is a concrete aid. That is why we will vote in favour of Mr Donno's motion in all its parts and we will not oppose the other motions that have been tabled, despite having general commitments. We will be here as a beacon to observe that every commitment is guaranteed, observed and brought to a successful conclusion. That is what we are going to do these days and we will commit all the citizens of the communities affected by disasters to ensure that what we have written in our commitments today is completed. They will be the first to be a watchman and to communicate to us every non-compliance, and we will remember it here every time. We will refuse to indulge in the usual celebrations of manner that are done every time we register victims, in which we beat our breasts and pretend to be affected by the pain caused by calamities, by the victims, by the wounded, forgetting that the first culprits are in here, and I refer to those who legislate grossly, to those who legislate giving ample space to the Government that then does not carry out what is foreseen by the approved motions. I remind you that, as early as April 2013, motions had been approved on the hydrogeological failure: it has been a year and a half and of those motions we have not seen any feedback, no results. Mr President, I may have run out of time, but - forgive me - this is something that strikes me personally. In the Gargano I went without reflectors and helicopters, with shoes inside the mud, and I saw what happened and I spoke to the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Allow me to conclude the intervention by saying the words of a person whose name I immediately tell you. It is Sandro Pertini who, in 1980, intervened at the beginning of his speech at the end of the year in the following terms: I confess to you that I hesitated long before presenting myself before television to offer my usual greetings to you for the new year that is coming. I hesitated because I fear to bring a note of sadness to your homes. In my soul there is nothing but bitterness. I am thinking of the victims of the seismic cataclysm that has unleashed in southern Italy. I went straight to the scene and saw scenes of pain that I will never forget. And I think of the survivors, who today remember their deaths and think of their country completely destroyed and their house which is a heap of rubble. Well, not with words, but with deeds we must try to comfort, to help the survivors of the earthquake. We must try as soon as possible to rebuild their countries and their homes with anti-seismic criteria. And here the government will have to ensure that the anti-seismic criteria are truly observed. To speak was Sandro Pertini, the President who will never forget, at the beginning of his speech at the end of the year in 1980. More than thirty years later, a President of the Council, Renzi, led by the Government without passing the vote, did not feel that he had to bring his greetings to the victims of the flood in Genoa. Maybe because he had to go to Barbara D'Urso and make the catwalk. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u78	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, last year, at the sitting of 4 September in this House, before various motions by the parliamentary groups, an agenda was presented for the prevention of the risk of hydrogeological disruption throughout the national territory. This agenda was based on the premise of the priority of the protection and security of the Italian territory and the consideration that soil is a non-reproducible environmental resource, the transformation of which has permanent effects on the environment and landscape. This was followed by a series of conclusions which committed the Government to achieving important objectives on this subject. In particular, the agenda called for the implementation of a new governance of actions to defend the territory, affirming the need for a unified direction in order to overcome the fragmentation created by the different level of competences to contrast, instead, a full and effective implementation of policies of protection of the soil and water, entrusting them to the authorities of the basin and the Regions. However, this request has remained almost completely unfulfilled: almost entirely because, on paper, the missionary unity was established in the Presidency of the Council. But, in the face of this institution, no concrete initiative has followed in the last few months, as many commentators have pointed out following the events of Genoa. We could say that that mission unit has been an unfinished one in recent months. With the exception of the communicative "zelo" that emerges from a rapid vision of the website "italiasicura", that unit of mission to date has not had any positive effect and therefore it can be said, without question of denial, that the unitary direction desired by the agenda of September 2013 is still not implemented. As proof of this, without any intention of instrumentalization, the case of the work of Bisagno, which was not carried out because the procedures were subject to the scrutiny of the administrative judge. Yet, one of the priority objectives of that directing booth had to lead to the simplification of legislation and administration and to the reduction of the interpretative doubts that block every invitation to tender and every call in Italy in this area. In the same document, accepted by the Government, reference was also made to the need to increase the quantity of the financial means necessary for the different works of soil defense and reduction of hydrogeological risk, while raising the sums allocated to local authorities, which are then the most exposed and the most necessary of economic resources. This commitment was also not honoured by the Commission. Another qualifying point on the agenda was the one where normative and administrative interventions were called for, aimed at greater integration between urban planning and public land defence works, in order to arrive at a virtuous link between municipal urban planning plans, large-area plans, hydrogeological planning plans and public works planning. It is mortifying and needless to say that this objective has not even been touched. And what about the sums already available a year ago, almost not used at all? And what can be added about the objective of not reconsidering the role of reclamation consortia? These bodies, considered as examples of useless administrations, could be re-used at least for the know-how they have, which could be decisive for serious and efficient prevention strategies. Finally, the document also sought to enhance the functions of national civil protection, aiming at better coordination with the various territorial authorities. After months this goal is still in the midst of good intentions, but nothing more. And so, precisely for these reasons, our Group has tabled two motions, which largely follow that agenda. As Senators Tarquinio have already said - for Gargano - and Piccoli - with a look at the various areas of the peninsula affected by calamitous events - it is necessary to ask the Government more forcefully to renew and, if necessary, increase the commitments made 13 months ago and not fulfilled. It is necessary to share from the good practices of many bodies, small and not (common, river basins, reclamation consortia), which have been able to prove themselves, starting and completing works for mitigation and prevention of hydrogeological risk. On the same site, reference is made to a list of works relating to the so-called "secure schools" programme. I would ask the Government to verify how many concrete interventions are being carried out and, in those few really started, how difficult it is to carry out in conjunction with the school year started and with the pupils housed in the same building that was the object of the works. I did a sample survey of high school in my home province. Well, only two buildings out of more than 100 schools are involved in the programme: less than 2%, therefore. I would like to take this example to make it clear that the slogan "italiasicura" cannot be the answer to the problems indicated in our motions. Ladies and gentlemen, it has just been 25 years since the approval of the famous law n. 183 on the protection of the soil and we cannot say that the objectives identified by those rules have been achieved. We continue to waver between promises of new public works and the creation of new bureaucratic boxes, without incisive interventions and without the implementation of efficient policies for the realization of a new culture of soil protection and risk reduction in the 6,633 Italian municipalities affected by this tragic problem. As said, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group had presented two motions to recall and engage the Government on the above issues, highlighting all the delays and emergencies to be faced. With a constructive spirit and free from intents of instrumentalization we decided yesterday to arrive at a unitary motion, which however reaffirms the necessity for the Government to carry out the commitments already requested in its time, starting, already from the next hours, from the scandal situation of the failure to recognize the state of calamity for the Gargano. As Senator Tarquinio reminded us, today is the 47th day without answers from the Government. Having therefore agreed on the premises and the reasons for that unitary motion, we are nevertheless announcing our vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u81	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, once again since I began my first parliamentary term, in the face of yet another extraordinary meteorological event, which has become more and more frequent on our peninsula, causing mourning and major economic damage and perhaps a very rhetorical debate with the dispute between the catastrophists and the negationists that I am not passionate about, I am here to intervene to try to act as a sounding board to that cry of pain for too many years that has not been heard, coming from our territories, from our priceless landscape heritage, so mortified by man, as well as from the common good that is the environment, which we are all called upon to protect and preserve for future generations. The time has come to say enough, just to do justice to the many dead, to do justice to the many who have suffered damage and lost so much. The consumption and the production model we use are destroying an infinitely more fascinating and complex world than the goods we produce. The mistakes made over the decades by man, in the use and consumption of the territory, are now manifested with tenfold effects. The crazy climate of recent years is nothing more than the most obvious example of the devastating effects that current climatic changes can cause. All this is now supported by certain data and incontrovertible scientific studies. Yet, with regard to the dangers of climate change, there is some sort of optimistic prejudice that prevents public opinion, but also governments, from grasping the urgency to intervene to mitigate them. Even if we say that we are concerned about their effects, we believe that others will suffer: distant populations and unknown exotic territories. Instead we must run, run to secure our cities, our territory, our excellences with their devastating effects. This is true for Genoa and Liguria - my Region - but I can say, without being denied, that talking about Genoa is like talking about Italy, and every delay will make us guilty. What is needed today is a proposal, a long thought, which even before it translates into political action, must take place in society as the acquisition of a new cultural model. And then let us all reflect, but with the necessary awareness, on what to do, starting with this Assembly that on such important issues as climate change, soil protection, prevention from hydrogeological failure, should organize more sessions, in which to involve also experts of the subject, to show how this problem already has convenient practical solutions, on which to converge collective projects that bring together the communities to achieve a common objective: the safeguarding of our environment. There must be increasing awareness that the beauty of our environmental heritage, which distinguishes us internationally, is the most important force we have and, at the same time, how fragile it is and the victim of disinterest. Just in the coming weeks, Parliament is preparing to examine the new stability law while the government, in its Presidency, will be engaged in the debate on CO2 emissions in Europe, although some Member States seem to be able to put a brake on the 2030 targets update plan, and that is certainly not good news. This morning President Renzi confirmed his commitment to achieving the highest and most ambitious goals at the highest levels. This is why it is vitally important to act decisively on both fronts, in order to give life to that change of pace that is no longer procrastinable. A change of pace that allows us to use the extraordinary skills and knowledge accumulated to change the way we organize ourselves, to challenge and reverse the trends that have determined our relationship with the planet. This is a change that cannot be without the approval in Europe of an incisive legislation aimed at protecting the soil and preserving its peculiarities, as well as the closure of the negotiations on the 2030 climate-energy package, with more ambitious targets for reducing emissions, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy. This legislation must also aim to adopt as soon as possible in Italy the National Strategy of adaptation to climate change, in order to prepare the country to increase the resilience of natural and socio-economic systems, and to implement a reform of governance in the field of hydrogeological risk and adaptation that, eliminating fragmentation and overlapping of competences, clarify the tasks of the different technical institutions, in order to finally make efficient the system of planning, management and monitoring of interventions. It is not acceptable, in fact, for a work recognized as an urgent one to end up in endless administrative disputes: the courts cannot determine the times for the realization of works necessary to prevent disasters. For this reason, simplified procedures must be provided for, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty. Finally, we must combat deforestation and land abandonment and recognise the strategic value of agriculture, not only as a garrison and tool for the ordinary maintenance of the territory, enhancing the function of reclamation consortia, but also and above all as a tool to promote youth employment. Not only that, I am also thinking of the promotion of innovative projects for the maintenance of land and watercourses, involving workers temporarily benefiting from social shock absorbers and prisoners. In order to do all this, fellow senators, it is necessary to allocate certain and adequate resources, to be allocated from the Stability Act of 2015, and to unlock those existing, which can be immediately spent by local authorities excluding them from the constraints of the Stability Pact. And let us not forget the many, too many who have suffered damage to their productive activities: the State is close to them. It is also a priority to restore strength, dignity and autonomy, especially financial, to the Department of Civil Protection: it is paradoxical that it is left without resources to operate in a timely and effective way in the field of combating the damage caused by natural disasters. Colleagues, the reformative capacity of a country is also measured by the degree of attention that arises on important issues such as these. The transmission of positive and lasting values, such as the protection and enhancement of our territory, must become an essential element in the action of direction and government, which, starting from Parliament, arrives at the level of every local administration. We have the political and moral duty to counter a weak thought, that of managing the decline of our cities and communities, taking example from the enthusiasm and the desire to act demonstrated in Genoa by the many young people who voluntarily started to shovel the mud: this is the emblem of their passion and their will not to resign to the decline and to be protagonists of their future. I believe that we will give a positive signal to these young people, Mr President, if we vote in favour of an act which is the result of the great work that has been done to respond to the Government's request for a united motion. On these issues, in fact, the ability to govern, the determination of politics and the authority of Parliament are measured. I therefore hope that there will be a great deal of support for this united motion, to which the Democratic Party will not fail. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u83	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u84	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I shall be voting in favour of my Group's first-signed motion by Senator Ruta and I would like to give a brief explanation of the reason for this disagreement. In part, Senator Caleo gave me the lift, and that's because I don't want anyone to be able to say: you also voted for this motion. That's because I don't want to make fun of people. You may argue that people are not being mocked, but we are, in fact, doing so, because a motion of yours which contained these measures had already been tabled, voted on and adopted. However, this motion has not been implemented. Every time there is a natural calamity, it comes to a motion, but never to a decree-law that, in this case, would instead have its raison d'être, because it would be necessary and urgent. I repeat, a decree-law never comes! A motion is approved to which the Government, on time, does not implement. But let's go see why this motion, after all, is fake. You say, for example, that you want to declare the state of emergency - and that is fine - for the realities that have been affected by natural disasters in recent months. But how many last months? You're talking about exceptional events, but what does exceptional mean? The definition of exceptional event is relative and not absolute. Three millimeters of rain in the Sahara is an exceptional event, where 2,000 millimeters in the Valli del Torre in Friuli are not. So, that's a joke already. You say that it would be wonderful to promote a review of the regulations on controls to prevent, protect, etc. It's certainly nice, but use the formula "Evaluate the opportunity" to do so. However, this means deleveraging. Is it a commitment, or isn't it? With the use of the formula "to evaluate the opportunity of "to " is not. You also say that land maintenance and hydrogeological defense are a top priority for the country. It is true, but in the motion on the substance you write: "To consider it a priority". I answer: all right, I considered it, but then nothing else is done. This is for me to make fun of people! Then there is the question of deferment of the time limits for the payment of taxes. Yeah, but you still want the tributes. You only want them later. To the people who lost the house we say they have to pay, but later. Perhaps - instead - you could make a discount, this would be an act of goodwill and that is why I do not feel like looking in the mirror and voting in favour of the motion. The best I can give, for the sake of Fatherland, is my abstention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u85	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I recall that motion No 178 (text 2) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 253. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the voting of all motions to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). With no objection, motion 253 will be voted on separately. Senator Fucksia, the representative of the Government has been given a negative opinion on the premises of the motion and on the first and second paragraphs of the device. I propose that these parties vote first and then proceed with the vote on the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs, on which, on the other hand, a favourable opinion has been expressed. Do you agree with this proposal? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premise and the first and second paragraphs of motion 253 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remaining rulers of motion 253 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot motion 308 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I remember that motion 314 was withdrawn. Moving on to motion 316 (text 2). Senator Donno, do you accept the proposed rewording of the fifth paragraph of the device? (Some Senators of the NCD Group report to the Presidency that Senator Cotti uses an electronic device). Senator, live television is from upstairs, not downstairs. [[Comments from the NCD Group.]] Let Senator Donno answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like the Undersecretary to be able to state the proposal for a reformulation in this House. Is that possible? [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u87	Senator, if you keep the current wording, the Government's opinion is against it, not in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u88	[[Brusio]] WOMAN (M5S). No. I misjudged myself. [[Brusio]] Can you ask the House to be quiet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I should ask everyone. WOMAN (M5S). Ask everyone. I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u89	On the fifth paragraph of the operative part - just as it should have been explained by the Undersecretary - the Government gives a favourable opinion if the words "to assess the possibility of" are inserted. Do you agree to include this amendment? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I now address the same proposal that I made to Senator Fucksia, namely to vote first on the premise and the second and sixth paragraphs of the device on which there is the contrary opinion of the Government, and then, to follow, to vote on the forewords on which the Government expressed itself favorably. Do you agree? WOMAN (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premise and the second and sixth paragraphs of motion 316 (text 3), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Brusio.]] Vote for these motions is more challenging than voting for a budget. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first, third, fourth, fifth, as well as reworded, and seventh of the operative part of motion 316 (text 3), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I remember that motions nos. 324, 325 and 326 have been withdrawn. That concludes the debate on the motions before us. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u90	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1612. I would remind you that the general debate took place at the sitting on 16 October. I call the rapporteur. 18.49 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u91	Mr President, I will try to be extremely brief in my reply, only to point out certain aspects which have emerged during the general debate, which certainly deserve clarification. Meanwhile, I would like to express the total sharing with respect to the content of Senator Filippin's intervention. I would stress this point not because she belongs to my own group, but because she has been able to grasp the true spirit of the measure that we are examining and has presented it masterfully in this House, clearing the field of any doubt or misunderstanding. In this regard, it is necessary to remember that no one wants to trivialize anything, as has been said in the course of some intervention; let alone no one wants to trivialize marriage or the theme of families, just as Senator Gasparri, for example, said that, speaking of Articles 6 and 12, said that this measure trivializes the theme of marriage and of the family. On the contrary, the aim of this measure was to offer the citizen more agile, faster and less expensive means of resolving pending judgments, with clear benefits for users, for the whole of judicial activity and for the judiciary. This applies even more to the matter of separations, divorces and the cessation of the civil effects of marriage. In my view, there is a fundamental misunderstanding which has probably led to many of those who have not gone into the subject of this measure and which needs to be clarified. The measure that deals with us takes into account only consensual separations, offering in the cases envisaged instruments that, as I said, are certainly more agile, faster and less expensive. It follows that it concerns only cases where the will of the parties regarding separation, cessation of the civil effects of marriage or divorce has already been formed responsibly. Moreover, there are also some corrective measures or, in any case, some temperaments, such as the mandatory attempt to reconcile and other measures that serve to make the decisions that two spouses are taking better weighted. A further element that must be clarified in order to clear the field from the misunderstandings, besides the fact that it is always and only consensual separations and that therefore the system of judicial separations is not touched by the provision, is that in any case remains available to the spouses the possibility to use the system currently in force. That is to say that alongside these instruments, which are certainly innovative, the possibility of appealing to the court and following the procedures provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure remains always firm. I am more than ever convinced that the novelties introduced will benefit the system, being understood that it is necessary from all an effort of renewal and innovation that, as I have said in the initial intervention, can be accomplished only by putting aside the corporatistic and ideological logics that up to now have accompanied the discussion of the issues that we are facing. I also intend to mention the valuable intervention of Senator Caliendo, as usual punctual and competent and that deepens the issues under consideration. I must say that his amendment on arbitration would have deserved great attention, except that with his approval he would have entirely innovated the institute of arbitration itself, thus leaving the path that the decree intended to outline. It would be desirable for the whole issue of arbitration to be taken into account by the Commission in a short time and brought to the attention of the House, and I believe that the scheme outlined by Senator Caliendo is absolutely worth considering. The same is true of the matter of short divorce. In this sense, I intend to reassure Mr Cappelletti that no secret agreement has been reached with Senator Giovanardi or anyone else. It was simply preferred not to introduce such a delicate issue as that of short divorce into a decree-law that has different purposes. We do not want to hide and hide and we are convinced that it is useful and necessary for the short divorce measure, given that it has already been approved in the House, to be dismissed in a short time by the Senate Commission and brought to the House's attention. There is therefore no intention or will to hide, nor any secret agreement, simply the matter was out of the canons that imprint the structure of this measure which, I repeat, is extremely innovative and important. A further clarification must be made regarding the assisted negotiation, another highly innovative rule that must be framed according to a new vision, more modern and advanced and that, like the change of rite provided for in Article 14 (although to inverted parts, because in that case the magistrates choose and the decision is not delegated to lawyers as in the assisted negotiation), also in the cases ex Articles 3 and 14 it is necessary to abandon the corporate vision of the institutions. Assisted negotiation - this too is worth remembering - is an optional institution, except for very few exceptions in which it becomes a condition of processability, but there is always the compulsory assistance of at least one lawyer who assists the parties, and in any case the decision whether or not to promote assisted negotiation or accept the negotiation proposal is put to the parties themselves and, of course, in case of non-acceptance, always remains the system that currently exists, that is, that of ordinary judicial action. In conclusion, therefore, the measure under consideration certainly marks a turning point in the management of the issues of justice, with a very modern and very innovative vision, which has gathered the general consensus of the operators of the sector, magistrates and lawyers, and for this I believe we must give credit to the Minister, who bravely wanted to propose this measure and who I am sure will continue along the path he has taken. Finally, may I, even before proceeding to the vote and regardless of what will be the final result, emphasize, as I think it is necessary, the relationship of great collaboration that has been established with the offices of the legislature in the Senate, as well as, but to this we are absolutely accustomed, the effective relationship of loyal collaboration also with the officials of the Commission, in particular with Dr Piccione, who once again showed, as well as great professionalism and competence, also a willingness as always out of the usual. In particular, I myself have abused Dr. Pigeon's patience during this period. I therefore believe that the measure must be taken for what it is, namely as a measure that marks a new step, a new system of tackling the issues of justice, and I believe that we should also get used to future reforms, which I am sure the Minister will propose to this House in continuing the path that he has courageously taken already with the proposition of this decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u92	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am obliged to thank those who, with the debate that took place first in the Commission and then in this House, have made it possible to highlight this measure, to improve it and in some cases also to strengthen it. I would also like to thank all those who, by giving up absolutely legitimate and sometimes acceptable demands, have renounced, as it were, to overload the measure, which would then have made its parliamentary process more complex. I believe that this move to the Commission sets out a method which I would also like to follow for the rest of the measures that make up the comprehensive framework for the reform of justice: a starting proposal, which is available, however, for a discussion with all political forces and with all the senators, of course, but also for a fruitful and profitable relationship with the opposition forces, where they indicate solutions that can be better than the original ones. This measure is, as I said, a first step in the reform of justice. This is a first step which I believe should be welcomed on one specific point: the reform of justice, after twenty years of discussing almost exclusively criminal justice, is addressed from civil justice. It may seem trivial and obvious, but it is not, not only because the civilian for many reasons imposes less on the public, but because the civilian is the point where, over the years, there has been a vertical fall in the ability of the jurisdiction to answer the questions of the citizens. The civilian is the one that weighs most on the dynamics of the market and of the enterprises; the civilian is the one that - alas, in a dramatic way - weighs on many family events: the civilian or, better, the non-functioning of the civil. Improperly, there was talk of privatisation, at a time when other parties were called upon to support jurisdiction in its role and function. This is something I reject, not just because I think it is unfounded. Any measure that will pass in front of paths such as that of the transfer to arbitration or assisted negotiation will always and in any case be under the control of the jurisdiction. I believe, however, that there is a hypocritical emphasis on those who talk about privatisation, because it is obvious that the real privatisation is the one that comes to be determined when a case lasts eleven, twelve or thirteen years, and in which inevitably the weakest part, i.e. who is not able and in the condition of being able to wait, inevitably succumb. Any reform cannot fail to deal with a given in advance: from this comes the choice of the decree-law. Ours is a country that has a great demand for justice. I do not want to define it qualitatively, but the question is great: in the civil sector it is equal to three and a half times that of Germany, which also has 20 million inhabitants more than Italy. No kind of reform, neither legal nor procedural is able to withstand an impact like this and, since you cannot conculcate this question, you have to ask yourself whether you can answer it in a different and more articulate way: this is exactly what the measure under consideration does. Does it prove from a question - is it necessary for everything brought before the judge to go directly before the judge? - and tries to give some answers, with the transfer to arbitration, with the assisted negotiation and with the negotiation for the separation and the divorce. Of course, we know that this is only a partial answer, and I will say in what sense later. We know that these measures must be accompanied by a qualitative leap in the organizational capacity of the machine - for this reason, in the stability bill, it will be possible to hire 1,000 staff of chancellery and administrative staff - and must be supported by technological innovation. On 30 June the telematic civil process started, and for this I thank my predecessors who have worked for this purpose. However, I believe that the measure before us is an answer which, apart from the numbers it will produce, opens up roads. The first is this: in Italy there are more than 200,000 lawyers. Now any interview that deals with this theme reproposes this element as a mantra. I do not link this to the growth of the demand for justice: I believe that this is an excessive and sometimes trivial scheme. Above all, I do not believe that continuing to remember and recall this fact in itself solves the problem. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we can try to use this professional force, which has been formed for many reasons, such as the lack of programming and the blocking of turnover in the public administration, to make it become from an alleged part of the problem to a part of the solution. This opens up new avenues, because it asks the lawyer to be not only the one who is before the judge, but also the one who is able to prevent and resolve the conflict even before he is incardinated before the judge and within the jurisdiction: this is the first step. It has been said that there is the limit of the convenience of these paths, and we are working, in the law of stability, to strengthen a system of incentives that pushes us to go in this direction, but above all - and this is the fundamental point - we are working in parallel to implement the legal reform of the forensic profession, voted by Parliament in the last parliamentary term, which is one with the reform of justice. In fact, to a lawyer who is asked to perform a different function, it is also a question of giving a profession, a method of access and a degree of specialisation objectively different from the current ones. In the same way, very stir and attention drew the theme of separations and divorces that pass, in consensual cases, in front of the civil state officer. In this case, I would like to say that here too there is no choice to alter, which Parliament can and must do, the path through which we get to divorce. On the contrary, there is the will to answer that question that I initially asked: where the activity of the jurisdiction is little more than an administrative taking of the act is so necessary that one remains in front of the jurisdiction increasing the loads of the question? In this case the decree responds no, with a series of cautions and elements that guarantee the full awareness of the parts that take this step, opening, in my opinion, a road, that is to bring back to the administrative field what is administrative and avoiding to overload the jurisdiction of a weight that, for the conditions of departure of which I have spoken, has become objectively unsustainable. Then there are measures - and I would like to remind you that a great deal of attention has been paid to this and great attention in the area of the forensic profession, also because there are other discussions with regard to the issue of separations and divorces - which I think are of great importance in relation to the objective of speeding up the process: the issue of compensation for expenditure, as an element which in some way discourages reckless disputes; the issue of late interest: today it is particularly convenient for those who do not want to pay when they know they are wrong and it is right that interests discourage this form of attitude; by introducing the summary rite, or by making sure that for minor problems there can be a simplified procedure and, above all - this is something that has emerged less in the debate and in the way in which this measure has been told to the public - a strong innovation on the executive stage. One of the problems of civil justice is that what the sentence has established often remains dead letter with a vertical fall in the credibility of jurisdiction. We innovate on this front and create institutions which, among other things, have found - I say this without fear of being denied - a strong convergence of all the subjects of jurisdiction, of the staff of the Registry, of the lawyer and of the judiciary. It has been said that this will not solve the issue of the civil process, and it must not do so. We just want to clear the field so that we can then intervene with a reform of the process that is not yet another egg of Columbus, that is, the timely introduction of procedural changes that have often complicated the process over the years rather than simplifying it. We want to intervene in an organic way with a delegation which will in fact be framed very soon in the other branch of Parliament. With this delegation we want to try to respond to another topic, I say this because it has been recalled in some speeches. In the face of a situation in which the question is so articulated and so large, it is also a question of articulating the answer through a path of specialisation. There can no longer be an all-purpose judge, without prejudice to the prohibition of the introduction of special judges contained in the Constitution. Above all, it is also a question of selecting the most urgent question of justice from the social and political point of view at this historic moment: the answer we had given is what immediately impacts on businesses and families. It is therefore a question of reading this measure in a more general context. This reading has not always been there in recent weeks, in my opinion also for reasons of instrumental nature. I say this because we have been reprimanded for singular things: for example, that we have not dealt with criminal issues using the decree, which - alas or fortunately - is precluded by established practice. We were accused of not having solved the whole issue of the functioning of civil law: that was not our intention. We want to take a first step with this measure today, which is to articulate the way in which we give support to jurisdiction, to empower lawyers in a role that is partially different from that of the past, at a time when the attorney is facing a dramatic crisis due also to its social function, its status and the crisis that has affected it. In short, we are trying to experiment with new ways that we believe should be supported by further measures. The way in which, at a time when jurisdiction is the very high field of confrontation and controversy, this measure has been greeted and discussed, I believe, recognizes a justification for the road we have taken and, above all, constitutes the prerequisites for this road to be supported, beyond the declarations that will be made, by all political forces. In fact, I believe that the relationship with the operators, the way in which we have discussed these weeks, tell us that there is an expectation, there is a willingness to change, that can and must be encouraged by everyone. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am about to table. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] , entirely replacing the sole article of the bill no. 1612...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u95	Applauded at the end of the surgery. I know it surprises you, but there is a technicality that requires the Minister to do his speech...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u96	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Continue, Minister. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Thank you, Mr President. As I said, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1612 of conversion of Decree-Law No 132 of 12 September 2014, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] NUGNES (M5S). Defenest her!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u97	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. The Conference of Group Presidents shall be convened immediately to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.12 p.m. and resumed at 734 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u98	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the decree-law on civil trial. The debate on confidence, for which two hours have been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will begin at tomorrow's afternoon sitting, after the opinion of the Budget Committee on the financial coverage profiles of the amendment. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 13 o'clock. The agenda of the afternoon session of tomorrow also provides for the Presidency's communications, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2 -bis, of the Regulation, on compliance with the public accounting rules of the related bill of reorganisation of public administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u101	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, while you were speaking, I received a large amendment, which, however, tells me that an annex is missing. The fact that there is no annex means that there are things in this amendment that have not been dealt with in the Commission. We think we've heard of tables and so on. I would also point out, at a glance, that there are some things that have not been approved in the Commission. Therefore, I would point out that in the past trust was not the only instrument through which decree-laws were converted, but, despite this, when confidence was imposed there was the practice, which several times recalled the Head of State and the Presidents of the Chambers, according to which they were not added, nor were they taken away approved content in the Commission. It could be removed only in cases where something was approved in the Commission without cover: in that case the matter was explained. We are now adding content here; there are even things that, even now, when the sitting is closing, as you were rightly doing, we do not know each other. I do not think this is an acceptable practice. We will see the merit when we read the text, but that is certainly not acceptable and, if you will allow me, Madam President, that should not be said by a senator, but by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u102	Senator Malan, as to the first relieved aspect, I know they're making photocopies. I'll tell you why the suspension was a few minutes and, therefore, we are now proceeding to make photocopies. As for the other matter, I can only take note of what you say. I know that, from this point of view, the responsibility lies with the government and we point it out to them. Thank you for what you said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u105	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, we also learned that the Council of Ministers had already authorised the issue of trust to be applied on 19 September, so well in advance. Today the Government has decided to exercise this power. Therefore, if he had already made this decision well in advance, it appears even more surreal than Senator Malan has just raised, namely that there is an amendment which is not substantially known about the content and which, at a glance, even appears to be considerably different from the text approved in the Commission. I would like to condemn - in this sense, I believe that this should be the subject of an in-depth debate - the fact that there is this timing and this mode, as well as a different text from what has happened in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u108	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to say a few words and also a reminder to ourselves. Apart from the issue of the annex, on which I am unable to express an opinion, I should like to point out, however, that the idea that confidence necessarily serves to approve a text which has been approved by the majority in the Commission is somewhat the result of a degeneration of the trust institution, which is used as a tailor-made instrument to prevent the revocation of decrees and the reduction of the time limits for discussion. Originally and mainly the institution of trust serves the Government to call the Chambers - Senate and Chamber of Deputies - to approve its political address, even against the majority and, therefore, in contradiction with the Commission's text. I think we have to remember this from time to time, otherwise we have only this no longer political use, but mainly technical-procedural use of the issue of trust. I believe, however, that it would be useful and appropriate to remember what is also the true and original nature of this institution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It must be remembered to President Napolitano, who had another opinion last parliamentary term! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, Senator Lanzillotta, we have remembered that the responsibility lies with the Government that demands confidence in the maxi amendment. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But the procedures stand at the head of the Senate presidency, not the government. The government governs itself, if it is capable!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u111	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, Senator Malan and President Lanzillotta do not want me to do this: both are true, last but not least, Senator Lanzillotta's speech. The question of trust - it is said in literature - overwhelms any other discussion in progress, but it is also true that the need for cooperation between the Government and Parliament has been mentioned several times. I had allowed myself last time to urge the Government to proceed as has always been done, also because, in any case, the Presidency should judge the propriety and content of the amendment, not just in relation to the debate. It is true, in fact, that only one subject dealt with in the Commission can be included in the maxi amendment (so as not to diminish the need for discussion in the Commission, which is a nuance following Senator Lanzillotta's statement); it is also true, however, that the proposal of the maxi amendment must be assessed and, out of absurdity, that it does not have an inconvenient content. In this case, I had urged the Government to cooperate in this way - as has always been the case in the past - so that the amendment would be brought forward to the Presidency. The fact that the Presidency has just said 'we are making copies' lets me understand and feel that, on the other hand, the government has not done so. It's very serious. As I said at the Conference of the Leaders and I repeat in this Chamber, it would be good if, for the future, the Government would adhere to the practice, which is a noble practice and a necessity for a better organisation of work, in compliance with the Constitution and, therefore, democracy, and for the Presidency to urge the Government to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of what you have said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u114	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I believe that it is certainly true, within the hive of what Senator Lanzillotta pointed out, that the demand for trust is a typical act of the function of government in Parliament. However, we know that there is, in particular in this branch of Parliament, a practice, which has been consolidated over time, which recommends that the text submitted to confidence be that which arises from the work of the Commission. This practice, like all the rules, must of course be managed with reasonableness. There are, then, situations in which it is precisely from the Commission's work that there is a tendency to propose amendments to the House, on which there is already consensus, and we cannot see why they cannot be transposed by the text of the maxi amendment proposed by the Government. It is therefore, I believe, on the part of everyone, that we must manage this issue with balance and reasonableness. In its near entirety the text of the maxi amendment proposed by the Government follows the text of the measure as it arises from the work of the Commission. I therefore believe that, in essence - if we want to look at the substance - and basically even in the form, the text that will be submitted to the vote of the House tomorrow with the vote of confidence is the one on which the Senate has worked in the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u117	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I repeat here the concerns I have already expressed at the Conference of Leaders. Beyond the fact that the request for a vote of confidence - improperly in my opinion and it is a circumstance that should be clarified and I would ask the Presidency to acquire the acts, i.e. the decision of the Council of Ministers - was authorised on this subject on 19 September, but on this matter as such. Today we are faced with a request for confidence in a large amendment of which, given the scale, the nine tenths are totally unknown to the Commission, the House and also to the group leaders, where we have, by majority vote, allowed the question of trust to be included on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting. I can understand the reasonableness evoked by Senator Tonini, for God's sake, because we still have to rule with reasonableness. However, I do not wish to create a dangerous precedent whereby the texts which, as Senator Tonini rightly said, must spring from the work of the Commission can be, as I understand from what our colleagues in the Commission of Justice say, totally innovative in relation to the debate carried out by the Commission of Justice itself. It is therefore an abnormal procedure - without using other adjectives - which finds our total disagreement. Then, I do not know, but I see an endless list of new judges of peace with judges of peace suppressed, on which trust is sought, inserting an argument of which nothing has been said in the Commission justice and nothing has been described. Frankly, it seems to me to be an inappropriate procedure and it is I, at this point, who are asking both the Presidency of this House and the majority to make reasonable efforts, but with regard to this House and therefore with respect for the full rights of this House. In the sense that the question of trust can be put where there are peremptive deadlines to be respected, but in this case it seems to me that the link between the required reasonableness and the applied reasonableness is too broad and absolutely unacceptable. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I think the speech has ended here, because you've already spoken to your group leader. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I just wanted to intervene in the presence of the government!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u120	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not believe that the sitting is suspended at the moment: we are on the slope of a request for confidence and I do not understand why there is no government! In fact, I would have asked the government representative about 96 pages of tables attached to the maxi amendment, which can be evaluated differently. If the government tells us that they are not innovative with respect to the current tables it is an account; if instead with the annex we go to innovate all the surroundings of Italy, then I would like someone from the government to tell me if we are talking about a current situation, and therefore we have only accepted the re-introduction of the judges of peace of Ostia and Barra - as I seem to remember - that is to say it redefines everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u121	I don't know if the government representative is here and if he's able to answer. However, I would remind you that, as the report will show, the Minister, in asking for confidence in the maxi amendment, had already expressed herself. (The Undersecretary Pizzetti enters the Chamber). If Senator Pizzetti wants to answer the question, then we'll finish this part.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u122	As usual, the Government has authorised the imposition of the question of confidence on the measure if necessary. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Are the tables innovative or are they the transposition of the current state? Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I'm transposition. The Ministry of Justice has assured us that they are transposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u125	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that we have now come to the point that we can trust the law of delegation in white, so if you give us more sheets it is probably a step forward and not a step backwards! We also approve the delegations on this, so that we are not at the last moment with texts that perhaps do not even correspond to what is voted in Parliament and let us close. We always say so: let us close this branch of Parliament and perhaps the other one too, and let us go on like this! Now you should give us more time to check these aspects of the maxi amendment. Since, apparently, you've decided to do this operation since September 19th, you could have told us before! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u126	All right, Senator Airola, I take note.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u129	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor for a brief speech, because I want to read you an e-mail from an entrepreneur from Campania (which I will not name) to my email address in the Senate, which desperately asks for help from the Government and policy to address a situation that has now become unsustainable. The situation that this lady lives is that of many other small entrepreneurs, who daily are harassed by taxes and foreclosures of the current account that prevent to carry out their own activity, is that of an Italy that still lives very great situations of difficulty, contrary to what President Renzi, indeed Mr Renzi, constantly declares. Dear Senator, I need your help. We have been a small and medium-sized construction company for more than 30 years, passed from father to child. You can't go on anymore. The taxes are too high and it has become impossible for us to think of keeping the iva game alive. The disaster for us began when we had a lack of payments from certain gentlemen who made us heavily indebted, to the point of forcing us to sell off some property to pay the liquidations of the workers we were forced to fire. Then there was the withdrawal of trust from the banks, another slash that forced us to sell out other properties and even to bear the threats of the bank manager, who wanted to cash one of the bills of sixty thousand euros that we were forced to sign my husband and I to access the loan. In an attempt to solve the problems, we are sinking even further. I'm afraid of what's gonna happen and I'm willing to sell the house where I live, but where will all this take us? I have just withdrawn the injunction for non-payment of 2012 and 2013 and I would like to ask President Renzi and the State how I will pay as we now manage to bring home a single salary. We are content to spend the minimum necessary, but these guys who want to work taking responsibility to open an Iva game what do they have to do if the only thing they can accumulate is debt? We just want to work and we want our rights. We want to pay taxes as we have for 30 years, but we entrepreneurs have grown tired of being considered only when we commit suicide. I ask you to help us. I believe that in this House we all have a duty to take care of this lady and all the other entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who courageously continue to move forward. We're running out of time. Stop talking, you have to act! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-337.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 23 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
