ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 16 October. Tomorrow's afternoon sitting will not take place in connection with the convening of Parliament in a joint sitting. During tomorrow afternoon's Question Time, the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea will answer questions about measures to adapt to climate change and measures to clean up contaminated sites. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 7 October, beginning at 9.30 a.m. The timetable provides for the follow-up of the examination of the draft law of delegation of work and the discussion of the bill of defamation. In the week from 14 to 16 October, in addition to the possible follow-up to the draft law of delegation of work, will be examined the Update Note to the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance; decrees-law on violence in the stadiums and on the civil process, as well as any arguments not concluded. During the afternoon session on Thursday 16 October, the resignation presented by Senator Rita Ghedini will be put to the vote, while the question time will take place in the afternoon. On Wednesday 22 October the Assembly will commemorate the figure of Senator Franco Servello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 16 October 2014: [[Thursday, October 2nd pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of Land and Sea on: - measures to adapt to climate change - interventions to clean up contaminated sites]] Parliament shall be convened at 9 a.m. on Thursday 2 October for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The senators will vote first. [[Tuesday 7 October ant. h. 9,30-14,30 - Following bill n. 1428 and related - Work delegation (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Draft law n. 1119 and related - Defamation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) " " " pom. 16-20,30 Wednesday 8 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 9 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 14 October ant. h. 11,30-13,30 - Possible follow-up of bill n. 1428 and related - Work delegation (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Doc. LVII n. 2-a - Update note of the 2014 economic and financial document - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 119 - Violence in stadiums (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 21 October) - Drawing of law n. 1612 - Decree-Law n. 132 - Civil Process (Scade on 11 November) - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Vote on resignation submitted by Senator Rita Ghedini (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Thursday 16, ant.) " " " " pom. 16,30-20 Wednesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 16 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 16 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Motions for resolutions to the Update Note should be tabled by the end of the general discussion, the amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government within one hour of the opinion being delivered. The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill No... (Decree-Law No 119 - Violence at Stadiums) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to draft law No 1612 (Decree-Law No 132 - Civil Process) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 13 October. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII No 2-a (Note to update the 2014 economic and financial document) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Minority Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, including: PD 53' FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 27' NCD 24' Mixed 21' LN-Aut 18' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 17' GAL 16' PI 16' SCP 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 119 - Violence in stadiums) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 6' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 21' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1612 (Decree-Law No 132 - Civil process) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 30' GAL 29' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u7	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the Conference of the Leaders, I tabled an alternative timetable proposal. In the proposal presented - I remind my colleagues here - the 5 Star Movement Group calls for priority to be given to two subjects, the first of which is motion 278, with which our Group calls for a vote of no confidence towards Minister Lorenzin. The motion, tabled at the time, is now urgent and necessary - and we are asking for it to be included immediately on the calendar - following events involving Minister Lorenzin, in my opinion, at least because of incompetence. It is not possible to arrive at a situation in which the Ministry thinks it can make a public competition procedure as if it were a direct appointment. It is not possible, among other things, that this House has not yet been able to pronounce on any motion of mistrust tabled in more than one and a half years. Therefore, in this situation, I would strongly call for the timetable to be supplemented as a matter of urgency. The second variation I propose to the calendar provides for the inclusion - already repeatedly requested - of the bill Act of the Senate n. 19, at the first signature of Senator Grasso, now President of the Senate, with provisions on corruption, vote of exchange, fake budget and money laundering, better known as anti-corruption. This is one of the first arrangements presented in this parliamentary term and a measure to which most political forces have always given high priority. The Government has committed itself to finally completing the measure, given that the same is now in the Commission justice for a long time and there would be all the elements for it to be scheduled. I believe at this point that, in view of the urgency (which I do not see) of discussing, approving or rejecting the resignation of Senator Ghedini, in the face of the urgent debate (which I do not see) about the rules on civil process or violence in the stadiums, which also seriously affect not only this House, but also civil society as a whole, I believe that it is not entirely out of place to finally have the opportunity to discuss a serious, important motion of distrust, which has a motivated urgency and, above all, also have the possibility, at last, of examining the anti-corruption bill. I would therefore also ask that, following a quick debate, we change the timetable as requested. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not voted on the proposal for a timetable because we have asked - and we have done so for a long time now - for the inclusion in the House not only of the anti-corruption bill but also of the whole package, which you also referred to today at the Conference of the Leaders, which concerns money laundering and fake money laundering in the budget. Mr President, you know perfectly well - we have discussed this many times in this House - that, after the Government announced that it had presented its own draft law, the entire legislative process of the anti-corruption bill that had been worked on in the Justice Commission had stopped. All this has happened - I remind everyone - not only before the summer break, but even long before the debate on constitutional reform. Again this morning, during the general debate on the so-called delegation of work, I heard some colleagues and some colleagues call to mind the great commitment of the Government to the new anti-corruption and false rules in the budget. Since work in the Commission is almost done, I cannot quite understand why these measures cannot be scheduled. I therefore call for the anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and fake budget package to be included in the timetable following the examination of the delegation of work and the draft law on libel. Then, Mr President, I would like to make another proposal. As you know, for a very long time I have been asking for the so-called question time to be alternated with a day specifically devoted to the holding of questions on Thursday afternoon. I challenge my colleagues to say how many questions they have answered, since the response rate from the Ministers and the Government is virtually very low. It is therefore no longer acceptable, Mr President, for similar questions to be answered quickly to the House and for the same not to happen here in the Senate. Since the Senate still exists and has not yet been completely modified or repealed, I would ask that next Thursday afternoon be devoted to answering questions and not to question time, which is already planned for this week. My proposal is that it should become a practice to permanently alternate the conduct of questions with the conduct of immediate questions, also called question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u11	Senator De Petris, I wanted to point out that in the calendar that I have just read there is precisely this alternation that you are asking for, in the sense that Thursday 9 October there will be questions and questions and not questions time. I also acknowledge the Government's commitment to respond to questions more quickly. I do not know whether it is appropriate to put to the vote a proposal to schedule something that is already planned: I will put to the vote, however, all its proposal, different from that put forward by Senator Petrocelli. All right, Senator?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u12	Mr President, as you know, the proposal I make on the conduct of questions relates to the introduction of a practice. On the other hand, I would ask you to include the draft law on defamation, or even before, the so-called anti-corruption and fake package in the budget, immediately in the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u13	All right, senator. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by Senator Petrocelli. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u16	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, having seen some open doors and some confusion, I ask whether it is possible to make a counter-test.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u17	Senator Santangelo, the Secretary Senators confirm that there is no possibility of misunderstanding the result. The vote is so clear that even some movement through the doors does not affect. SANTANGELO (M5S). There were colleagues walking. [[Comments from the PD Group]] They certainly can't fly. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Secretary Senators confirm that in this case, too, counterproof is not necessary. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss what should be the final act of the so-called jobs act, the much-pronounced reform of work which, according to President Renzi's timetable, was due to end by March and instead arrived in this House in October, seven months late. (Following GALIMBERTI). The conditional in this case is an obligation, both because of the nature of the provision, a bill delegates from the contours all too vague and nebulae that provides for a large number of implementing decrees, which can often be expected for years, and for the continuous changes of direction of the Government with a succession of conflicting declarations, not least the announcement of a further amendment whose content is unknown, except for what is read in the newspapers and which, if confirmed, would unleash the provision, rendering it useless and frustrating the attempt to give certain rules to the world of work and to free it from the arbitrary decisions of the judges. By now we are used to announcements, since this is not the Government of the facts, unfortunately however statistics objectively photograph a country in difficulty that has been asked too much. I am not talking about unemployment, which is still dramatic with 44 out of 100 young people without a job, but about the equally serious figure concerning business failures, which is 14.3% higher than in 2013 and the more than 8,000 companies that closed in the first six months of the year. I have always argued that if real employment growth is to be achieved, it is necessary to focus on medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises; we cannot talk about reforming the labour market and promoting employment, without taking into account all the actors involved, including those who create it. Instead, for years now, companies have been vexed by the State, which has imposed a fiscal pressure concentrated mainly on labour and capital, that is precisely on productive factors, and that makes Italy one of the most heavy and inefficient tax systems in the world. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u20	Colleagues, let my colleague speak, will you not? I'm also talking about the senators who turn their backs on you, who pretend they're nothing. Please! PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. During the crisis, the situation deteriorated further and five out of eight small and medium-sized enterprises resort to bank credit to meet tax requirements: it discourages employment and investment, with consequences on the labour market, competitiveness and economic growth. Therefore, the individual labour market reforms can only have a minor impact on employment if economic and fiscal conditions are not created that favour investment, business development and growth, resulting in a natural impact on employment itself. In recent years, obtaining any form of credit, including that for consumption, has become a difficult undertaking and, instead of remedying this deficiency, some new proposals of the Government only make worse a picture already in dark shades. I am referring first of all to Article 9 of the law on the delegation of reorder of the public administration, which provides for the cut in the payment of the chamber law paid by companies - and for businesses - to the chambers of commerce, which will result in a loss of 2 percentage points of GDP of the country. It is a reduction affecting the chambers of commerce, an important and essential instrument, which in recent years, thanks to those same burdens that are intended to reduce, has always accompanied and supported Italian companies, playing a valuable role during the crisis, maintaining the registers of companies and, above all, by supporting access to credit and the redistribution of the resources collected to the companies themselves. Secondly, the assumption that half of the liquidation, announced by the Government in recent days, would be a good way to promote consumption if the financial commitment were fully supported by the Deposit and Loan Fund. Instead, as presented, it is a proposal that harms small businesses, forced to borrow to support the consumption of their employees, creating a liquidity shortage of about 5.5 billion euros, at a time when getting credit is not only difficult, but it is almost impossible. In fact, even Confcommercio has reiterated that such a measure would end up weakening our production system further, accentuating the process of reducing employment. This measure was the right opportunity to create the ground on which to intervene and to realize the conditions for a concrete change in the relationship between the State, business and the labour market, but once again the measure has suffered the pressures of the unions and a certain part of the left, the same one that, with its immobilist attitude, in recent years has prevented a natural evolution of the labour market that would allow to combat the employment crisis. Well, precisely these members have made Article 18 of the Workers' Statute their banner, standing up to the last defenders of the rights of a small part of workers, leaving out, however, the young people, the future of our country, and starting a battle based more on appearances than on content. On the other hand, if they had dealt with the subject with greater realism and had taken into account the future of the country, rather than trying to keep the number of members unchanged, they would have admitted that the overcoming of Article 18 favours a greater possibility of employment and job creation by companies. Another issue not well defined in the text is the provision of an indefinite contract with increasing safeguards, of which the text does not specify the nature and how these safeguards will vary with the increase of service seniority. Moreover, this forecast is in clear contrast to what was established by the so-called Poletti decree, which was voted only four months ago, and with which fixed-term contracts were introduced with the possibility of renewal - up to five over three years - without companies having to specify the causes of such extensions. A contrast that will have to be resolved immediately. In the same way, there is some doubt about the vague wording of the incentives for self-employment and self-entrepreneurship, as well as the forecast of subsidies for the unemployed with the forecast of an appropriation of about 1.5 billion euros, a sum of which we still do not understand the coverage and which could be totally insufficient, since in Italy there are more than three million unemployed; yet another commercial useful to fill the front pages of the newspapers and the questionable effects, see bonus 80 euros. One last question I would like to put to the Government: is it really necessary to set up a new agency for the job or is it just an alternative way of relocating the staff of the Provinces that are theoretically abolished? We are at a time when the country is exhausted and can't take it anymore, and the last governments have been saying for a long time that next year will be the year of the recovery, but it is a next year that never comes. Even today, the data issued by Minister Padoan on the DEF only postpone the expectation for positive results to 2015. I would therefore like to point out to the Minister that the macroeconomic framework has not only deteriorated compared to the DEF in April, but it is from the last Berlusconi Government that we are seeing only worsening macroeconomic data, and the comparison is merciless if we think that GDP was at +0.8%, unemployment at 8.3 percent and debt at 120.6 percent. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the words leave the time they find and are often subject to retractions and interpretations, the data instead speak clearly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u21	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u22	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Senators, the delegation to the Government under consideration presents principles which should be aimed at reforming the social protection system and regulating the labour market, as well as principles aimed at strengthening measures to protect parenthood. Let's start with the data. According to ISTAT data, Italy opens the Presidency of the European Union with a negative figure: unemployment, as we all know, rises to 12.6 percent, indicating an increase of 0.5 points compared to May 2013. The unemployment rate of the so-called very young (15 to twenty-four years) is stable at 43% and is growing. Basically, the unemployed thus rise to 3,222,000. Women's unemployment rate is also at its peak: it now reaches 14%. Consumption is falling and many families are no longer able to cope with the expenses necessary for the same survival, so poverty increases, as evidenced by the increase of people who turn to Caritas, while the risk of social exclusion now affects a quarter of the population. Industrial crisis, corporate crisis, purchasing power goes back to the values of ten years ago. Over 50 medium-sized municipalities are on the verge of financial failure and so on. These are data we now know, we are in deflation, with prices falling and reaching -0.3%. The government tries to give an embryonic response, but it is not given to know what exactly will give birth and, as I often say, we hope it is not an abnormal bicephalus. Firstly, the issue of the National Employment Agency proposed by the draft law should be discussed: its configuration in the relationship between the State and the Regions, the ways in which the social partners participate and the placement of staff are crucial issues for the future of active policies for which the Agency should play a leading role. I now come to the distribution of functions between the National Agency and decentralised levels. The operation of the National Agency is carried out with the human and instrumental resources already available to current legislation, to which are entrusted management tasks in the field of employment services and active policies and which provides at the same time the reorganization of all the national, regional and provincial bodies and structures that carry out functions in the field of labour policies and employment services, with the possibility of bringing into the roles of the existing administrations or of the Agency staff coming from the administrations or offices suppressed and reorganized in implementation of point (f) of Article 2. The model that emerges, although apparently innovative, in its organisational innovation focuses skills that are now entrusted to different subjects. Moreover, it focuses not only on governance, which would be absolutely necessary, but also on management. If we proceed along this path, I would like to stress a number of contradictory elements. First of all, there is a lack of indication of the functions that are transferred to the new structure of the system of local self-governments. Among other things, the law that rearranges the system of local self-government completely silent of the functions in the matter of work that, in the current Constitution, within the competences entrusted to the State, according to Article 117, are of concurrent competence. Yet we are talking about a strong, active, state-owned agency, autonomous regions and provinces and supervised by the Ministry of Labour, which, however, will act unclearly, according to the situation given. We should, in fact, wait for the delegated decrees. I would like to raise as the first necessary issue that of a participatory governance agency, that is, a kind of national headquarters in which to define standards, policies, essential levels, modalities of operation, rooting in the territory. This is certainly not a sufficient but necessary condition: the new governance model must not be centralist or publicist; it must aim to create and support effective territorial networks of labour services. It will have to include the social partners and the private sector, so as to involve and coordinate all actors operating in territorial networks. We should, therefore, ensure that regional agencies implement labour policies by managing the territorial structure of services. As the new Article 117 of the Constitution is written, on the subject of exclusive and competing competences, the problem arises. We must reflect on the fact that photographing the given situation means trying to avoid proposing what is already there because it would not be good, but at the same time it also means taking into account the fact that a measure that focuses on management in this way is hardly compatible with existing legislation, but also with the current Constitution. So let's go back to the usual knot. Finally, it is important that this National Agency, among its various functions, first carries out a serious analysis of the system of human resources and structures, both physical and non-physical, available for the performance of such an important service, not least on the types of contracts that these workers have within these services that they should offer and that they are already there. Today the job search is in Italy a DIY operation: through web, auto-candidates, family relationships, knowledge and recommendations. The youth labour market is also aggravated by a mismatch between school skills and the professional needs of businesses. Young people were also marginalized by a pension reform that raised the working age of 60s by blocking turnover. Young people should be given a specific chapter in labour market reform: insufficient labour services did not allow the recruitment of professional figures as expected. There is also another aspect that is not mentioned in the delegation of work, even if the subject of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, namely the strengthening of the orientation of children, starting from the last years of primary and secondary schools, especially by letting them know the employment basins, thus interrupting that process of self-training of young people towards those professions in which then it is difficult to find a job. Another key issue is the ability to combine income support and active policies. This combination is still limited to a very limited segment of interventions. Just think of the use of the derogation fund (established in 2008) that only 5.6% of the assistance was supported by training measures for retraining. Moreover, the average working time of an unemployed person who is not supported by income protection measures is about half of what is needed to find employment by a protected person. The reading of the principles contained in the law delegates about social shock absorbers shows that we are not faced with an innovative system and a broad reform of the subject. The changes made consist, in fact, in a completion or extension of the institute represented by the ASPI. There seems to be no sufficiently detailed coordination with active labour policies, assuming that a social shock absorber must be a residual alternative to the priority job. The process of reorganisation of active policy services needs to be focused, bearing in mind that an efficient system is the system that is moving towards a reduction of the time spent in the situation of unemployment or income support. Therefore, with regard both to the means of protection in constancy of employment and to support in the event of involuntary unemployment, I believe it is useful to identify mechanisms that provide for active involvement of the person receiving treatment, i.e. the provision of active policies that intertwine social usefulness with the opportunity to facilitate a period of training for reintegration into work. In order to arouse an active and active attitude on the part of the subject concerned, however, it is necessary to prepare an effective and general offer of services, with adequate personnel to support this path. It is necessary to promote a thorough reorganisation of recruitment incentive measures and support for entrepreneurship, which until now have been managed in a chaotic and inefficient manner. The rationale for rationalising existing recruitment incentives must take into account the urgent need for a thorough simplification of access procedures, limiting cumbersome bureaucratic procedures that often mark access and restrict its use. Therefore, I believe it is necessary, as appropriate, to introduce principles that allow the employer to have certainty from the moment of taking up the opportunity to take advantage of an incentive, in order to be in a position to determine the cost of labour with certainty. It is necessary to reduce taxation on labour and to move towards a redistribution of working hours. As they often say: work less, but work all. In fact, employers often have no certainty that they are actually subsequently recognised as having benefits in terms of labour costs, i.e. they spend too much time between the ripening date and the actual concession. Finally, it is necessary to ensure, with a view to an effective and profitable activity by the relevant services, as provided for in Legislative Decree No 276 of 28 August 2003, that the latter are subject to criteria of return to result. The third point is the simplification of procedures and formalities, with a view to achieving objectives of simplification and rationalisation of procedures for the establishment and management of working relationships, as well as in the field of hygiene and safety at work. Here too, attention returns to the issue of integration between active and passive policies. It is necessary to network, immediately, the information and to make the benefit of the aid apparent, in a homogeneous way on the territory. A company that wants to hire a mobile worker cannot access mobility lists throughout Italy. Therefore, when thinking about rationalising recruitment incentives, we should also focus well on setting up the knowledge of incentives, because this can facilitate their use and optimize management. We must therefore talk about sharing information. We come to the law delegates to the Government for the reorganization and simplification of the types of employment contracts. On this point, I would like to focus here on what is, in my view, the first condition to be guaranteed, namely the extension of rights and, consequently, the protection of rights. It is necessary, in fact, to contribute to overcoming the dualism between guaranteed and non guaranteed. In this direction the measures relating to the delegation of work will have to go; towards the effective implementation of the forecast contained in the same regarding the introduction of the minimum hourly compensation, with reference to all employment relationships. The statutory minimum wage consists of a statutory minimum wage which must be granted to a worker by the employer for his/her work and which is intended to guarantee a minimum hourly level of remuneration, under which employers cannot go. In Italy there is no minimum wage by law, therefore there is no specific legislation, but it is obvious to this problem the national collective bargaining reference, which defines the minimum wage levels below which it is not allowed to fall, taking into account the level of classification. The minimum wage by law is effective in ensuring a minimum wage in countries where collective bargaining is not particularly developed. However, where there is and wants to be maintained an important role of trade unions and collective bargaining, it is necessary to prevent the definition of a legal minimum wage from harming workers, by levelling the minimum wage, which tends to be lower than the minimum contractual wage and even the minimum table wage, which the bargaining on the contrary could be able to increase. As a result, I would not want national bargaining to go towards a lower minimum wage. Therefore, a fundamental evaluation problem must be solved upstream, which is why it is necessary to establish an in-depth analysis of the effectiveness of the measure adopted. The minimum compensation should be introduced experimentally, i.e. for a period of time which, in order to avoid distortions, should not exceed 36 months and should explicitly provide for an assessment of its effects. As is well known, with the amendment to Article 4, which was last submitted by the Government to the Labour Commission, the law delegates to work undergoes a new wording, which, in essence, provides for a single simplified text on the overall discipline of employment relations, replacing the Staff Regulations, with particular regard to Articles 4, 13 and 18. I am referring in particular to the most critical aspects and the overcoming of the ban on the use of remote control technologies (Article 4), the flexibility of tasks (Article 13), the revision of worker protection in the permanent contract (Article 18). Article 4 of Law No 300 of 1970, the Workers' Statute, states that the entrepreneur is prohibited from using systems allowing distance control of the employment of employees. However, it is possible to install systems that have organizational or productive purposes, such as digital phones, computers or magnetic cards, and that also allow remote control of workers, provided that an agreement is reached in advance - i.e. before installation - with the company trade union representatives (RSA or RSU) on how such equipment is used. I therefore wonder what is now meant by reviewing the rules on distance controls, taking into account technological developments and meeting the productive and organizational needs of the company with the protection of the dignity and safety of the worker. If there is already the possibility of reaching agreements on the use of audiovisual equipment or other equipment, which have only organizational and productive purposes, in my opinion, such intervention should result in a certain regulation of existing systems, differentiated on the basis of the different reference sectors taken into account from time to time. In other words, one account is to use new technologies to promote forms such as teleworking, so to meet the needs of both the company and the worker himself, another is to remove the prohibition on the subject from Article 4 of the Workers' Statute on the use of systems that allow remote control of employees' work. As for the second aspect, the original text of the delegation referred to the introduction, possibly experimentally, of further contractual types, expressly aimed at facilitating the integration into the world of work with increasing safeguards for the workers involved. We are now talking about the new recruitment of a permanent contract for increasing protection in relation to seniority. Tutele and period will be graduated, but only in the delegated decrees that follow. From what the rapporteur, Maurizio Sacconi, has said, the progressive nature of the protections can only be compensation proportionate to the length of service, and therefore without the reinstatement provided for in Article 18 of the Staff Regulations in cases of unlawful dismissal, if not with some exceptions, but which have not yet been disclosed. We are waiting for the amendment that is currently in the labour room to come out and see how this Article 18 will end. It seems to me that monetary compensation is not an irrelevant detail, especially when compared to the existing situation. At the same time, however, the increasing safeguards mentioned in the text, given the absence of any regulatory details and appropriate assessments, cannot thus replace the protection provided for in cases of dismissal. Moreover, this would lead to greater confusion in the already extensive legal framework for dismissal, which has been modified in a complex way by the Fornero reform. Finally, on the subject of the revision of the rules of employment (referred to in Article 13 of the Staff Regulations), it should be noted that they are defined and identified by virtue of the principle of contractuality contained in Article 2103 of the Civil Code and reiterated in Article 96 (implementation provisions), where it is established that the entrepreneur at the time of recruitment must inform the employer of the category and qualification assigned to him, in relation to the tasks for which he was employed. The law, therefore, provides for the employer's obligation to guarantee to those employed in his own company a professional and economic framework adapted to the duties that the worker is called upon to perform and that the employee is also protected from possible penalties in respect of remuneration. It has been established that the tasks which the worker will be called upon to carry out within the production and organizational structure are defined in a contractual and individual way at the time of recruitment, and we must note that it is always the employer's power to change them. It is precisely thanks to the rewriting of Article 13 by the Workers' Statute that the employer's power to change the work of the worker is not, however, uncontrolled. In the event that the employer fails to comply with these statutory directives, the employer is called upon to do so and the employed and dequalified worker may, by right, claim compensation for the professional, biological and existential damage. According to the current regulatory data, the changes are allowed only for tasks equivalent to those contracted to the assumption or to those carried out with the character of stability. Each different agreement is void, except for exceptions. The aim of the rule, of course, is to protect the professionalism of the worker as a sum of experience. To speak of equivalence means to consider both the remuneration and the professional aspect, to nothing by detecting the contractual levels that pertain to minimum tariff aspects. To refer to the professionalism of the worker means to evaluate the position of the worker within the organization of the company, therefore apparently equivalent tasks may not prove such if, within a given context, they have different career prospects or if they imply an under-utilisation or dispersion of the occupational assets of the worker. On the contrary, tasks belonging to different professional profiles can be considered equivalent if assessed from a career development perspective. It can be concluded that a correct contractual phase at the beginning of the relationship, with the precise identification between the parts of the tasks, on the one hand necessary to the company and on the other hand available from the worker, allows to maintain on the correct track the working relationship, avoiding delicate and dangerous unilateral interpretations. Let me turn to the final point: review and update of measures to protect motherhood and ways of reconciling living and working time. The principles contained in this delegation would seem to be moving towards an extension of protection. The work carried out by a woman often has to be reconciled with the education of children and, in general, with any other commitment originating in the family. Women are invested in a series of responsibilities arising, as well as from the work undertaken, from personal and family life. [[The microphone light is intermittent]] Excuse me, ma'am, but does this flash mean I'm running out of time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, we're at 22 minutes. I'd invite her to close. Excuse me, but this light was hypnotizing me. Mother workers, in particular, suffer from the lack of a genuine equal opportunities policy that invests in public services, which supports them in the labour market and which can make the double work that they are obliged to do at all stages of their lives more tolerable and lighter. Double work becomes even worse for those who care for disabled family members. This does not fall only on people with disabilities, but involves their families or their only and true resource, since public services, in this sector, suffer from known deficiencies, which are accentuated according to the territories where one has the luck or misfortune to be born and live. Unfortunately, as is well known, Italy is a country that goes at two speeds and sometimes even tow. It would be appropriate to implement a more structured system within companies that can really facilitate motherhood or favour, also through the granting of special economic aid, the establishment of kindergartens. [[Call the president back.]] However, more resources are needed to cope with the measures provided for in the delegation. In short, we cannot reform without resources. How, for example, can one think of defining each service for employment as a service that must guarantee a given service on the territory, without guaranteeing its financing, that is, the problem of the costs that must be guaranteed in each part of the territory? We cannot do operations as important as those contained in the delegation of work, without resources. Finally, I would like to stress that efficiency must be achieved in the services and active labour policies; transparency must be introduced in an opaque market to say the least; protection and rights must be extended, which, if to date, are A, B, C and so on, we should aim to pass them all on to Serie A; to help overcome the dualism between guaranteed and precarious, and to strongly support the working mothers. In this direction the decrees delegated in the matter of work will have to go. I therefore very much hope that the Government will take advantage of the debate that will take place in this House in relation to the draft delegation law, which it will listen carefully and then analyse the synographical reports on what is suggested by the oppositions, the voices outside the choir, since, judging by how the work in the Commission went, the amendments tabled in the Chamber will probably not be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u24	Senator Bencini, flexibility is one thing. Given the issue we are dealing with, we are on the move here. It used about 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u25	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Therefore, at least the Government takes note of the reasons stated by the parliamentarians in favour of the amendments tabled, in addition to taking advantage of what is suggested in these and in the coming days also by the social partners in order to give Parliament back effective delegated decrees, decisive for the good of the country and the workers. Thank you and good work to everyone. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Senators Cuomo and Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u26	Colleagues, I hope that the time available to the senators will be respected in the following, because taking the floor away is very unpleasant. Twenty minutes, I think, is enough. Twenty-seven is a little excessive. She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me to start with a brief: given the rumors, I would like to say that I absolutely do not try to impose confidence on this draft delegation and to stop the parliamentary debate, because it would be an act of grave empire. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another very serious act of empire of this Government! On 7 August, the last veil fell when the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, made it clear: it is probably time to start sharing sovereignty at European level, including with regard to structural reforms. Mario Draghi's words have stated: if some countries are unable to please the ECB, they will have to surrender sovereignty accordingly. What, moreover, was desired a few days earlier by Eugenio Scalfari, founder of the daily newspaper of De Benedetti the Republic in which he wrote: I will tell a bitter truth (...): perhaps Italy should submit to the control of the international troika formed by the Brussels Commission, the ECB and the International Monetary Fund. Gentlemen, the system has already decided for everyone: we must make the German-European monetary system decide the fate of our people. That is the strong and clear message. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Renzi wants to avoid national failure? Are you afraid of the troika? Let's be clear: the troika in Italy is already there. With 44.2% of young people out of work, with the Italian debt it has reached 135.6 percent of GDP (I remember that Argentina when it failed had reached 127 percent), with the deflation situation that makes completely unnecessary austerity and surplus budget, with the loss of 1,000 jobs every day, the troika in Italy already exists! With the very high increases for citizens already this month on gas and energy, considering that the Cassa depositi e loani Spa has sold for two billion euros to the Chinese of the State grid corporation of China 35 percent of the share capital of Cdp Reti Spa with its internal gas network, Terna and Snam, the troika in Italy is already there! With the highest load for citizens of 875 euros per year of hidden taxes, in addition to the burdens of TARI, TASI, additional IRPEF, excise duties, stamps, passports etc. and the public debt that amounts to 2.168.4 billion, establishing the record that when a child comes to the world is already born with a debt of 36.225 euros, the troika in Italy is already there! With the largest debtor in Italy is the State, which still has to give companies 35 billion euros, the troika in Italy is already there! That's how you managed this country, and now you don't know how to get out of it. Padoan said two days ago that adjustment manoeuvres are more difficult than was thought, which means more tears and blood will come. Ettore Petrolini ironically said: "The money must be taken from the poor: they do not have many, but there are many." And the government, to heal the country is adopting this line. Gentlemen, there's no point in illusions. Our country, with your choices, especially with this delegation of work, will not recover. The crisis is structural and systemal. We're in the global market. No one will ever have the convenience of making us fail, but all the interest in dictating the rules. We are hostages of international finance, which will always keep us on the rope to suck our blood slowly. Nobody will invest in Italy anymore, where production costs and taxes are too high. Minister Poletti, may I have your attention? [[Comments from Senators Taverna and Catalfo at the address of Minister Poletti who is speaking with Senator Ichino. Call the president back.]] Minister Poletti, thank you so much for your attention. Senator Ichino may have the opportunity to do his speech. I said that production costs and taxes are too high, politics gets fat and justice languishes. On several occasions the Minister, Mr Poletti, who is here - and I thank him - said that by decree no jobs are created and this delegation does not have the power to give jobs to millions of unemployed people. But, be careful, the opposite is possible: with this law, jobs and rights can be cancelled. In these days statesman Renzi, in the vocabulary that now distinguishes him, told his parents: I'll take them all, one by one. Here, this is the political line, but, attention, the concept can also be extended to Berlusconi, Napolitano and Draghi. So stay on the bell, he'll screw you all, one by one. Excuse me, but I find it hard to put this concept in my mouth to a Calamandrei or an Einaudi. We are talking here about delegation of work, but - if you will allow me - I do not even allow people with these concepts and principles to write me a birthday card for Christmas. But will this delegation work in white and at zero cost really serve growth? And I would like to focus on Article 4, which, in my opinion, is the worst that could be done. For example, in point (c), there is demand: the delegation provides for the government to review the discipline of tasks. Too bad that this possibility is already available to the entrepreneur; yes, because, by established case law, the entrepreneur can change the employee's classification downwards, when this solution is the only alternative to dismissal, that is, in those processes of reorganization, restructuring or conversion of the company, mentioned by the delegation. What the delegation wants instead is to do clearly anything else, that is to legitimize the arbitrary repositioning (and perhaps backward) towards the bottom of the employee in the company, according to the changing and volatile determinations of the entrepreneur, in violation of a principle of fundamental civilization, that is to be assigned to the tasks for which one has been hired, that is to the higher ones acquired with the job. To give an example (I say this perhaps for those who are out and have no clear idea): you, a worker, have been hired as a specialized worker, you have years of work behind your back and experience, but today you are put to be a usher with pay and you will no longer be able to oppose it. The decision will only be imposed by the company; if you do not agree to decrease your professionalism, firing you will be legitimate by norm. Another point in Article 4 (d): you have introduced remote worker control. Basically, the big brother looks at us, or rather, he controls us. The current wording of the Workers' Statute prohibits the use of any plant that allows a remote control of the work of employees, so that the work does not become a depersonalizing activity and to safeguard the intuitable needs of respect for the dignity and confidentiality of the person, as has been reiterated by the Privacy Supervisor himself. Even today, however, the rule allows to introduce controls remotely if there are specific organizational needs, provided that the existence of the same finds confirmations in trade union agreements. This balanced system of protection that has been operating for more than forty years, respecting the needs of companies and workers, today inexplicably has become, from the perspective of the Government, obsolete and to be overcome urgently, without any verification of opportunities by independent third parties. You want to control workers minute by minute, disinteresting yourself in the dignity of the working condition, to the point of being relegated to conditions comparable to those in force during periods of nineteenth-century patronage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, strangely, we learn that during this period the ECB deals to install 200 highly defined cameras in the Roman printing works of Banca d'Italia. What does Renzi do? As usual, on the same wavelength as the European Union that it says it wants to fight against, the ECB pays tribute to this and tries to extend the big brother's eye to any company. Also in article 4, paragraph b), introduces the now famous contract without a time limit to increasing safeguards for new recruits. That said, it may mean anything and more, but it certainly does not reassure the workers. And, icing on the cake, all this media debate - and I repeat media, because in the Commission we heard about Article 18 at the penultimate sitting - which takes place on what remains of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, since the dismantling began two years ago with the government Monti-Fornero-Napolitano-Draghi. But why all this political and above all media noise about the worker's reinstatement in the event of dismissal without just cause? And why does this seem to be a major obstacle to the country's economic recovery? Does the job re-launch giving the employer the freedom to fire? But Article 18 does not apply to 94.8 percent of businesses! The Italian social economic fabric is based on small and medium-sized enterprises. So what's the problem? The esteemed citizen Eduardo Quercia sent me the following reflection, which I am pleased to read. He writes: There is no discussion here about the legitimacy or not of the dismissal which, if legitimate, can even now be legitimately named. There is a discussion about the need for the entrepreneur to be exempted from this embarrassment and to be able to get rid of the worker even without a just cause or a justified reason, simply by paying. Until the 1960s, and precisely until the Inter-Confederal Agreement of 1966 which paved the way for the Workers' Statute, it was consolidated in labour law the classification of the employment contract in the category of rentals. Next to the location of things, there was the hiring of the labor force. Today, in a nutshell, you would like to return to the lease. It's aberrant! He continues: In the same way that, when I withdraw from an apartment rental contract before the agreed deadline, I have to pay the missing monthly amounts until that date. Here, the heart of the problem is solved in this question, gentlemen: is the provision of one's own working energies totally comparable to the category of productive factors available to the entrepreneur? The job, in short, is a commodity like the others? While I'm saying it, I'm creepy, because it's terrible. I read the Constitution of the Italian Republic and I find Article 1, which states that "Italy is a democratic Republic based on work" (Article 4), according to which "The Republic grants all citizens the right to work" (Article 41), in which it is said that economic initiative cannot take place contrary to human freedom and dignity. Just this short passage carved in the heart to have everything clear inside us! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]] It is therefore written in the Charter: work cannot be the same as others. We are coming to the commodification of human dignity with the usual system of making everything pass as an objective necessity, indeed as a form of equivalence in defect with respect to the mass, that is, rather than raising the bar of law, we lower it. In short: all equal in precariousness! It is obviously false, and this time too misleading, the objective declared by the Government. Today, as today, the possibility of acquiring fixed-term employees is allowed virtually without limits, so what is the use of authorising the removal of Article 18? Once again, certainly not for the purpose that you declare. In fact, the causes of national production decline are quite different and depend on other factors: external factors, such as globalisation, first of all, and internal factors, such as corruption, the lack of investment in new products and technology. It seems clear to me that all this saying about Article 18 has only an ideological meaning and goes in the sense of removing all obstacles of resistance to the idea of total precariousness, not only of work, but also of the entire existence, in which citizenship must leave room for mere consumption, the only instrument allowed for individual compensation compared to total exclusion from any real form of democracy. More than removing protection, the problems of regulatory over-production, the proliferation of contractual forms, problems related to the labour process, excessive labour costs due to the tax wedge should be solved: these are the elements that more than others act as deterrent to hiring for companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The work is not created by pressing the accelerator on the precariousness, as you have already done with the Poletti decree of May, in which the work has further developed, removing also the causality to the fixed-term contracts. The position of this Government of the very broad understandings is clear: precariousness, reduction of acquired rights, sale of family jewelry and the dream of man only at the command. That then was Berlusconi's dream; but beware, where is the difference? The difference is that if you take away the microphones and the cameras in Renzi, it disappears into thin air. Berlusconi has hers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here, then, you understand the messages in code of Scalfari and De Benedetti to the young climber: either take home the result or you are nothing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In the Commission I work these days we have witnessed the government's umpteenth prevarication: you have demanded a blank delegation. A blank delegation that leaves no room and no word for the contradictory. That is why we in the opposition have come out of the Chamber, so that we do not even give you the alibi to say that everything has been shared. If the Renzi-Sacconi Government has a very precise plan, the place of discussion must be the parliamentary classrooms, and the political will must be dictated by the parliamentarians and not by two or three subjects who, in secret classrooms, decide for everyone, determining the fate of millions of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] In the Commission, MPs of the PD (who should be part of the majority and therefore of the Government) were seen with low eyes and funeral faces, and at the same time celebrate and rejoice the President of the Commission Sacconi, of the New Right Centre, who said no less than last November 2013: Renzi is an avatar, and Alfano's New Right Center is born with the aim of avoiding his victory, which would be a disaster. I would be curious to understand the dynamics that have overturned the omelette to this point, but to do this we should read the secret pact between Renzi and Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement in this year and a half has put forward concrete proposals to restart the country: we have proposed to abolish the IRAP for small and medium-sized enterprises, not to increase VAT (which will soon reach us on the groppone even to 23 percent, probably), to introduce the income of citizenship. We have proposed that we really cut the costs of politics and gold pensions, to re-launch work and defend small and medium-sized enterprises. All proposals rejected! You have even failed to increase taxes for gaming dealers, well known by PD politicians and Forza Italia in full conflict of interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As a 5 Star Movement we have proposed a serious anti-corruption law since we entered these classrooms and from this we could recover 10 billion euros a year. But nothing, all blocked by Renzi and the Nazarene pact. Your policies, gentlemen, are failures, like those for the work of young people. The numbers of Youth guarantee are humiliating: compared with 635,000 unemployed young people, less than 100,000 entered the Plan, but there are very few jobs available. There's no job. We lined up guys in front of a locked door. That's the problem! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today, 50 businesses close every day. The largest Italian companies, thanks to your laws, today either run away or close their doors. But one resists in Italy: the largest Italian company invoice 180 billion euros, but it is illegal. It's the mob! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The mafia spa with its tentacles, called 'ndrangheta, camorra, our thing. And what did this government do? It reduced the penalties for political-mafia electoral exchange and created a law that is not applicable. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] We of the 5 Star Movement denounced this disaster in April, when the Democratic Party destroyed the good law launched by this Senate, sacrificing it on the altar of the Nazarene covenant. [[Senator Puppato's comments.]] The mob does not debride, but strengthens, moving towards billionaire contracts such as MOSE, Expo and TAV. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this delegation work in white lower the protections to the workers, but let the mob prosper before our eyes. And a small part of the cursed mafia billionaire tour would be enough to set up a citizenship income for the weakest. The guarantee of income to citizens would serve to free millions of people from a clientele system, which sees in the politician of the turn the main blackmailer, who, on the other hand, demands loyalty with his head down and his mouth shut. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our country sadly oscillates among the claims of condemned and improvised Saviors of the Homeland supported by their courtiers. Renzi succeeded where Berlusconi and Monti failed, using a left-wing electoral basin to make right-wing policies and for this I invite all of you to vote conscientiously. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not the commercials and tweets that will bring up the fate of a country, but a mix of targeted choices, made by people with clean hands and not blackmailable, people who do not have to justify the powerful on duty and who respect only one contact person: the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I know you haven't gotten used to it and that it's making you uncomfortable - and I'm closing it down, President - but for the first time in history, normal people have entered here, who know what they're talking about when they say they're suffering the policies you've always imposed. Here among you today there are very small entrepreneurs and someone also knows what it means to be on the verge of failure; there are workers, there are unemployed, potato gatherers, plan waiters, doctors, engineers, support teachers, lawyers, architects, job leaders and truckers and all without having to account to any of their choices, except to citizens and their consciences. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the difference. We are sorry, but we are not long-term bureaucrats and politicians, but I know it will be difficult for you to understand. Well, citizens outside; we'll wait for you in the square! (Loud and prolonged [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u29	Mr President, Minister Poletti, there are also - a few, perhaps - small entrepreneurs here, like me, who are celebrating 25 years of activity this year. And to think that I've always set aside the TFR. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] I think I let you talk earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u30	Senator Paglini, before you spoke and no one interrupted you: you must guarantee your colleague Puppato the same possibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u31	AIROLA (M5S). Even Senator Puppato spoke earlier! PUPPATE (PD). The problem is that we are listening to speeches that, in some cases, are not partisans (partisanry not only I know it, but I appreciate it), but fatiose, are acts of preventive condemnation and preliminary judgment. However, it is precisely the fact that there is such a hard opposition to an act such as the one we are trying to put on the field (the so-called jobs act), through a debate that, on the contrary, wants to bring improvements to the government's delegation, makes me think that we are on the right track. I tell my brief story, so there are quite a few of us left in this House. As I said just now, I have a small business behind me for twenty-five years, always setting aside the TFR, Minister Poletti, without ever seeing an employee slam the door and get out of my small reality, despite the fact that Article 18 of the Workers' Statute did not apply. Everyone felt absolutely guaranteed. What does this mean? It certainly does not mean that all entrepreneurs are the same, but it does not mean that all employees are the same. If that weren't the case, when a few years ago I paid 36 months of contribution - which was then 48,000 euros - for a person who worked with me only a month, if I had just thought that all the employees were like this, maybe I couldn't keep my company up. All this means that we have to stop thinking that the fences guarantee someone or something. Perhaps it is true that at the moment we are all called, businesses, politicians, local administrators, employees, to a better and greater responsibility. Those who say, seeing only one face of the prism, that the debate on this job act is sterile, polemic (I have also heard of disrepair), have not grasped that what we are incardinating now, Minister, is precisely a revolution and that is precisely why it is frightening. We have just heard the praises of De Benedetti and Scalfari, the same ones that were mentioned a few months ago as the heavy lobby behind the Renzi government. So as soon as something moves within the framework of what has always been fixed and sedimented, suddenly attacks come from all sides. We, on the other hand, are convinced that what we are doing is a good, deep, due and also obliging thing. As far as this is concerned, it is sufficient to read the number of draft laws that the delegation of fact absorbs or erases, which it wants to say, as can be seen from the first pages of the draft law under consideration. These proposals are subscribed by virtually the entire parliamentary arc and it is enough to pay attention to their number to understand the chaos that we live in the labour market and also in part in the Italian welfare, which has progressively seen its resources diminish. Like any great upheaval, perhaps even making what is not ordained, making clear, transparent and efficient what is not, objectively represents a heavy commitment and is what we want to assume as active drivers of the best possible solution. We want the jobs act approved by this House to be really the best possible, regardless of ideological barriers. In my opinion, the debate has already produced some of its effects: the delegation to the Government is more complete and punctual, it enters into the substance, it suggests good reasons without coming to terms with either side. Outside we have two Italies: the first is the fossilized, immobile one, in which companies oppose workers and workers against enterprises, as if we were still in the nineteenth century and not in the evolved world; the other, instead, is constituted by a world that has no certainty; that it is made of precariousness and even daily abuse, that lacks dignity. Well, in the silence of all - or almost all - this reality, these two Italies lived simultaneously on the same face of our country: only rights or almost on one side and only duties or almost on the other. I think it's time we said enough. An example for all we find it in the numerous types of contract. I was just smiling as I read Article 4 (a) of the draft law in question, which states that the Government will have to identify and analyse all existing contractual forms. Inside me I wondered how many there were, since we still have to identify and analyze them; maybe it is not even the 44 or 48 that we are talking about in the newspapers today. It is a kind of tower of Babel of labor that produces the maximum of social inequality. This is not an analysis made by me or the Democratic Party, but by the European Commission for Welfare, which photographed how Italy is the country in which in the last 10 years, more than in the rest of Europe (I am talking about Europe at 44, not that at 28) inequality has grown. That is, we are the country that has succeeded more than all others in creating inequality and profound injustice. Think that the other day I read that even in the illness one is not equal in Italy: on the one hand there are those who are lucky enough to work in the public administration and are entitled up to 36 months in order to be able to treat properly if he has unfortunately contracted a serious illness; on the other hand there are workers who do not have the same luck, who are part of the parasubordinates (which is also a bad name, because they seem an Indian category that does not have full rights of citizenship), who are entitled only to 20 days for care. The others are six months old. So you go from twenty days to thirty-six months for sick leave in this country? Perhaps it never happened to you, but to me, as mayor, it has often happened to receive family members of sick people who, after six months, came to explain to me that their family members were not dead, but had received the letter of dismissal. This I do not wish anyone, because the worst damage you can receive, after 20 or 25 years of work in the company is to know that the INPS no longer reimburses the company and that therefore the latter simply cancels the number. This is also a matter that we must ask ourselves. We cannot think of being the country where everything happens and the opposite of everything and we are only defending something that could happen to 0.01 percent of cases. I'm no longer interested in that 0.01 percent, I'm interested in the other 99.99 percent, which at the moment no longer considers Italy a country to live, work or do business in. That is why, Minister, extending, extending and making universal the guarantees of welfare restores and must restore dignity and serenity to workers and businesses. It is necessary to establish with certainty where the action of the private and where the action of the public continues, to make clear the relationships, the limits, the risks and the economic expositions for one or the other: this means, today, to lay down a correct contract with the Italians. The issue of minimum wage is another challenge that I particularly like to see included in the government delegation and that is not easy. We enter the plate with our feet, Minister: it is clear and it is no coincidence that in Germany the CDU and the SPD have stayed two months to discuss this, because the implications are enormous. And we don't even have their labour market, which was full employment. We have a market where there is a shortage of employment. Therefore, the risk is higher, but we like the challenges and at this moment we want to take them all. Then there is the delegation to the Government, relating to active policies and services. I don't know, President Calderoli, maybe you, who, like me, is passionate about federalism, will realize that we put here... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u32	Does anyone want to go home first? Is there this will? Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, please let Senator Puppato speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u33	[[Senator Candiani's comments.]] PUPPATE (PD). His parents are a little bit fucked up, too. I know them well, let me tell you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I must say that they are careful and listen. I was afraid no one would listen to her, but there's someone listening. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] PUPPATE (PD). But they listen and that's the beauty! Mr President, I would like to highlight one point, which no one has noticed, because perhaps no one has noticed it, contained in Article 2 of the jobs act, which delegates to the Government in the field of work services and active policies. In this article it is said that not only is the monitoring of active policies strengthened with the support of the income of the person, unemployed or unemployed, with measures aimed at its integration into the productive fabric, but in the letter t of paragraph 2 they are attributed to the Ministry of Labour and the social policies of the competences in the matter of verification and control of the essential levels of performance (LEP). We have always known the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and the essential levels of social assistance (LIVEAS). With this standard we have also included the essential levels of work performance. This means that they must be guaranteed throughout the national territory - no region excluded: okay? - the same active labour policies. We begin to speak a language known in Title V of the Constitution, recently amended, in which the Government assumes a delegation in case of failure to comply with the Regions. In addition, I would like to think, as the trade unions have done, that the Government's openings regarding the inclusion of workers on the boards of directors of enterprises, the single representation of workers, the minimum hourly income of workers, are more important guarantees than any other protection currently present in the labour market. I am of the opinion, for example, that if we can put a more favourable permanent contract in this job act, for example, because we have an incentive compared to other contracts, we would really have met the needs of everyone. I think that, when we put employees on the board of directors of medium and large companies, we will have given the most important protection that can be given to a worker, that is to know how much his company is investing in him and what he believes in the territory in which he is located, and that we can help to ensure that the company can continue to produce in a positive way. And so, Minister, I think that what happened during the debate in the Commission, in the direction of the Democratic Party and in the debate we are holding here today, in the request of each of us that this delegation succeed in activating policies for the job in order to make this country increasingly attractive not only for foreign companies, but also for those Italians who want to invest and continue to believe in their own country, is exactly what we had to do and what we are doing. And I thank you for that. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u35	Senator Cuomo, I exceptionally give you the floor for an intervention that does not concern the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u36	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, my speech is not about this subject, although we are unfortunately talking about a death at work. Yesterday two workers were injured and one of them unfortunately was killed by the collapse of a floor while they were at work to consolidate a building in the railway station of the State of Pietrarsa, between Portici, Naples and San Giorgio. Unfortunately, we still die at work, presumably because of the failure to adopt security measures, where no measure, either on the contract or on subcontracting, provides for a reduction in the burden of security measures. I am also speaking on behalf of Senator Puglia, of many Members of Parliament in Campania, but I believe I interpret the sentiment of the entire Assembly in expressing the condolences due to the dead worker and his family, but above all in the commitment also to protection and safety measures at work that we owe to the country and to so many workers that unfortunately every time we talk about these tragedies we forget. Let us all together talk not only about work, but also about protection and safety for those exposed workers who, unfortunately, often lose their lives to bring home a wage. Not only do we feel sorry for these people, but I believe that I interpret the sentiment of all the parliamentary groups, apart from the different positions, in saying that all our commitment will go. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr President, for your sensitivity in giving me the floor for this brief speech, and I would ask the Minister that these tragedies become ever more distant from our memories and thoughts and that controls should always take place, not only when we find ourselves mourning our dead workers for these immense tragedies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u37	The Presidency joins in mourning and wishes the wounded workers a speedy recovery. I think it is right to call on this House to observe a minute's silence, because there are no dead and fallen series A and series B. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] We build on the commitment we have made on the issue of safety at work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I believe that Senator Cuomo's words act as a whip on our consciences. I hope that the quality of legislative production takes account of these deaths and that even the minute of recollection is not only the formal testimony for one of the unresolved tragedies that are part of a phenomenon that reveals percentages that are still horrifying for a civil country. I hope that the legislator, Parliament and the Government will be led to make every necessary effort in the right direction. The direction to be taken, I understand, is extremely complex, perhaps even difficult to identify. In these weeks, in the last few days in particular, we have had to record economic indicators that look like a real war bulletin. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers approved the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document and the emerging figures define an overall macroeconomic framework, to say the least, disastrous. Yesterday, after many other authoritative analysts, the CNEL report confirmed that GDP will continue to fall in the next three months. Youth unemployment marks a new record having reached the goal of 44.4% and consumption declines. The situation in our country is all the more worrying as Europe shows signs of economic and, consequently, social stabilisation. One single figure is sufficient: unemployment in Italy is twice as high as in Germany. The consequence of all this is that companies continue to close down and self-employed workers are exhausted and not just themselves. This includes our discussion on labour reform. Mr. Minister, we appreciate the effort, we follow it, but we know that the more the country demands a reform, the more it imposes an attitude of seriousness and third-party evaluation in the identification of solutions, which cannot bogged down neither the debate nor the solutions within disputes that degrade the debate itself and marginalize the real serious criticalities. However, this reform will only be good, useful and fair on one condition, i.e. whether it will free the labour market from burdens that have become obsessive and from constraints that are absolutely ballast. Of course, among these is also Article 18 which, despite the revisions made a few months ago by former Minister Fornero, no longer meets the needs of either companies or workers. There would not have been so much to discuss about this since it is so clear that firing for economic and disciplinary reasons, which obviously have nothing to do with discriminatory ones, in front of which it is even obvious the reinstatement, is certainly not the favorite sport of employers, who would prefer to hire instead of firing because this would mean that the company is flourishing, robust, that grows healthy and produces. Article 18 risks becoming a weapon of mass distraction - hopefully not of mass destruction - on which to engage exhausting and sterile discussions, on which to build the plot of the usual announcements and on which to consume the internal reckoning of the party of the President of the Council. Demonstration of this is the epilogue that in the near future risks having this law delegation on the work that is presented by the Government and to which I would like to hope that the spectre of a request for a vote of confidence that would be a gesture of poor quality of work and absolute lack of respect for Parliament and for the country itself is removed. A sort of mediocre compromise is coming: a compromise to the bottom and not the result of a high mediation that would aim more to guarantee, as far as possible, the unity of a party than to give the Italians a truly effective labour reform. The rumors that follow in these hours - the press agencies tell us and the gossip does the rest - speak of an amendment of the Government that should take back the contents of the agenda that was approved yesterday by the Democratic Party management, with which the internal minority has demanded a substantial retrograde, obtaining to put in writing, in the law delegation, the commitment to reduce the contractual forms and better specify the cases of reinstatement for discriminatory dismissals or of a discipline nature. If such rumors were to be confirmed, we would be faced with yet another reform announced, but not implemented. Not only do we want to know - I repeat: not only us - but Italy wants to know; the company wants to know; families want to know; workers, young people and the unemployed want to know. We all want to know if and what real reform this Government wants to give to the country: whether a ghost of reform, or a simulation of reform, or a true and useful reform that represents a turning point and a positive shock to put a cast system back in motion. We would really like this reform to go back to history for giving impetus to GDP, for eliminating social inequalities and for ensuring better production in our country, becoming itself attractive for investment. Yet the announcement of miraculous reforms that have been the subject of other measures in this House leaves us puzzled and doubtful. We have seen others: reforms that should accredit us in Europe, create new jobs, demobilise the economy and raise Italy. So far, all these reforms have been translated into a kind of mountain that has given birth to the mouse or - even worse - in interventions even harmful, that have ended or will end with the worsening economic and social situation of the country and in the vertical increase of the fiscal pressure. Between last Sunday's statements in a television broadcast, in which the President-in-Office of the Council had ruled out any possibility of reinstatement, and the opening to this possibility of disciplinary dismissals, the step was short: indeed, I would say very short. The government must get out of this ambiguity. Does the law of delegation at work contain a real release from the laces and laces that force work into the cramped space of precariousness? Does this reform really go beyond Article 18, aiming at an innovation that is mainly cultural? Is this reform a coherent link between the so-called growing protection contract and the so-called Poletti decree, which has liberalised fixed-term contracts, making them a kind of trial period for three years? [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I welcome your invitation and I shall begin with the conclusion. Give me three more minutes. It cannot be imagined that a young man hired with a term contract for a total of three years, with five contracts lasting six months each, at the end of the carousel is forced to a new employment relationship with the increasing protections. This anomaly must be corrected. We need to be clear, we need to be honest, we need to tell the truth. We want to hope that the debate (legitimate, democratic and respectful) within a party will not make this provision impossible, which cannot be strangled by inextricable ideological problems. We need a strong boost to growth, which so far, as CNEL himself says, is not there. Labour reform must be accompanied by tax reform and bureaucratic simplification. Also the proposal to leave the TFR in pay envelope is to be analyzed very carefully. We all know, Mr President, that there is a need for measures to stimulate the economy to reverse the momentum of GDP which has been negative for too many consecutive quarters. But companies - from small and medium-sized companies (which are then the backbone of the Italian economy) to large companies - do not have the liquidity to cope with such an eventuality. The agreement with the ABI could hide very dangerous pitfalls, which over time would become a boomerang, not to mention that it is true that the so-called liquidation would be destined to stimulate consumption, but as a result it would be removed from its primary function of integrating the poor pension, allowing the Italians to face with less anguish the difficulties of the old age. The central problem is the cost of labour, which must be accompanied by the effort to reduce the tax burden and the time to pay the debts of the public administration. For this reason, we reaffirm our commitment, strongly convinced that serious reforms impose attitudes of great responsibility. If indeed the majority is not narrow in ideological prejudices and is motivated only by internal battles, it shows it: take courage and give in Parliament, in this House, the demonstration of wanting to make a true reform of the work, effective and modern. We, Minister, with our usual responsibility and without prejudice, confirm our willingness to make a concrete and honest contribution. The amendments we have tabled are few, without any obstructionist purpose. They pursue the objective of competing to try to deliver a good measure to the country. In this sense and with these bases we will be, with humility and tenacity, because we are with the Italians: it is with deception that we are neither with the theatres of ambiguity and empty announcements. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u39	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u40	Mr Poletti, for the umpteenth time, this would be a kind of pigeon shooting: you announced a reform in March and brought it to the House in October, but it is not a problem. We continue to say to your President: "Forget the announcements and deadlines. Say the three things you think are important - Marchionne Docet - but do it. Tell me three and do it; then we'll think of the other three. Article 18 is a kind of taboo: we have been talking about it for many years and we try to put our hands on it, touch it and retouch it, to the point that here we can also say that it does not exist and that it is a false problem. As always, you start trails with the wrong foot. Our old grandparents said that, if you start buttoning a shirt by wrong button, even if after you button everyone else in the right way, they are all wrong. Here we are starting with the wrong foot, i.e. from the question of how to [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The problem with our country is that it has undertaken a series of paths, ending up raging on itself. On the Fornero law, Minister, you will tell me that you do not have the responsibility, because at the time you dealt with something else: the political component to which you refer, however, is the same that a few years ago you thought to resolve everything by continuing the pension age of people. The Fornero law partially fixed the state budget at a historical moment, stacking all the problems in the immediate future and today we have them in hand. (18.15) (Follow DIVINE). Keeping people in the workplace over the acceptable is a sly one. If a person who enters a job is explained what the rules are and that person lends his work to you, then you cannot tell him, when he thinks he has acquired a right and has made life plans, that he has changed his mind and that his life plan can put him in a drawer because the rules are others and he must stay to work. Bad! But it is even worse - at a time of extreme difficulty, both global and particular in our country - to keep people in the workplace because it means not creating new jobs, not creating turnover. And therefore youth unemployment, worrying a few years ago, today has become not alarming, but unsustainable, catastrophic: one in two young people is at home. And what does he do? It is on the shoulders of a family that, by the way, no longer has the ability that it had a few years ago to maintain its spending and consumption. But the expenses in this case are still rising. So let's get to the Fornero law or we won't get out of it. And it seems to me to be a veiled suggestion, and not much, that the League has been giving you for a long time, to the point that we have had to pass you, deaf to the problem, and to hear directly the Italian citizens who signed (about 700,000 signatures, I can make mistakes, but it is an infinite number of signatures) to ask for a referendum to put hands on this mower, wretched, wretched norm at work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Second point: firms in difficulty. We keep them even more on the ridge of failure and maintain the difficulties by establishing that they must earn on the basis of presumptions: ergo sector studies. This is the first thing you have to delete. You can't tell a hard-working, mouthy business that it survives to pay for what it can't pay because it doesn't produce. The sector study, in fact, is carried out on the basis of the number of employees - but perhaps the entrepreneurs do not want to send them home because they are not wretched and feel a responsibility for them -, the size of the enterprise and the location of the same: factors that have nothing to do with the income, but on the basis of which is established an assumed income to which they cannot escape. Or get your hands on industry studies otherwise a large part of companies, in addition to those that have already failed, will be forced to close. You have a reference data from 2011. The old government tried to separate part of the assets from income by taxing them differently. I am referring to the income from real estate rentals, which have been broken down by the total income of the company or the natural person, taxing them with the so-called dry real estate coupon. A normal person can pay 30 or 40 percent, and businesses over. It was established that real estate rental had the two rates of 19 and 21 percent according to the type of contract. Apparently, according to the Government's reasoning, we gave up a source of income. Too bad that the following year, put on the test bench, the dry coupon on real estate rentals made just like the year before. And the following year he implemented the ergo take: lower taxes and increase revenue. This is the way, but not because the League has been saying it for some time, not because the economist Laffer says it - so the more tax is increased the lower the revenue and, drawn the curve of Laffer, increasing the taxation the total revenue drops (sacred economic theories) - but because we have experienced it. We have the data, the revenue, the assets of those two chapters that tell us that we have to back down. The secretary of the Lega Salvini turns all the squares of Italy saying that Italy needs the care that many other states are doing around the world. We abandon the progressive and complicated tax system and move on to a dry coupon, a flat tax set at 20%. Why 20%? Because for real estate rentals in the past there were those who broke out. What is the activity that makes 40 or 60 percent? No way, or rather, it's evasion. You are not willing to pay half of your income to a state which is then also evanescent in the answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Well, 20% of all blacks have emerged. Unsigned contracts and everything else have emerged. Everything emerges because 20 percent is considered a fair percentage, just to pay and at this point those who do not pay must be sanctioned. But those who escape because they cannot pay their workers are faced with a choice of field, a sort of self-defense: either I kill the workers, or my company dies, or I make the state wait. There is no doubt that a reasonable person decides to keep the state waiting. You, Minister, will still tell me that you have no powers, but this is the responsibility of the Government. The debts must be paid. Analyzing the situation shows that there are companies that close for credits, because they can't collect the credits. There has been talk of 20 billion euros more than 20 billion euros, 40 billion euros that may be sufficient, perhaps not, but if we do not pay the debts to those companies that are waiting, that risk dying not out of inability or disorganization, but because the state, public administrations do not pay it is difficult to hire, it is difficult to implement jobs act or inglesate such. They send me a document to read it if there was no crying would be a laugh: the Ministry of Economy and Finance asks Unioncamere, which has a good network, to activate it precisely towards the companies to inform you that a platform for the certification of credits is active. But we know them. The companies, the administrations have them in the balance sheet therefore know the credits (I do not know if they are defined residual or passive). Creditors can ask - says the Ministry - for the recognition of the credit and, in case the debtor public administration remains defaulting, it is allowed the appointment of a commissioner ad acta that replaces the public administration and that pays. A procedure of a unique complexity. One wonders who the Commissioner ad acta is, who appoints him and what powers he has. If those of a court, of an institution that establishes the enforceability of a provision. You don't understand that. But what more do we ask him? They've lent their work, they've done supplies, and they're waiting for the money. But the beauty has to come because they say that the credit, once certified, will be privileged because it can be discounted by the banks at the reduced rate of 1.90 percent. I do not know if the rate is really facilitated. Anyway, I wait to cash in money and rather than nothing I also pay the 1.90 percent discount. But the nicest part is that this letter the Ministry writes to Unioncamere, which in turn must be activated with the network of its members, on August 5th Sancendo that you will be able to take advantage of all these benefits, facilities or privileges if you respond by August 23rd. We write on the 5 and demand a reply by 23, knowing that normally in August business and business if it is not closed is reduced to the limit. Can we, Mr Minister, make fun of companies by writing these things and not first considering the effects of these decisions? But there is another (always not your faults because here we are inheriting a heavy past): how do you think that our business system is standing with the currency disconnected from the economic system? The currency of each State is the photograph of an economic subsystem. We have a Mediterranean economy and a Central European currency. We have a currency calibrated on the German economy, but we must use it in the same way, with the same exchange rate and value, in an Italian economy that we know well. Such a heavy coin means that those who have a euro in their portfolio must make an assessment: buy an Italian product, which has a very high cost, or an import one, of similar quality and at a lower price than half? Solution? With that euro the consumer buys twice as much imported goods. This means that it is not appropriate to produce in Italy. We have too high a cost and a disproportionate currency. It is a country that does not produce, because it is convinced that it has a heavy currency and continues to import. How long can it go on? We told Prodi in a thousand ways. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a pity that more than ten years have passed, but Prodi should come to this House and carry out, coram populo, an act of conscience. He should say they thought something and didn't realize where they took us. Prodi can't say that, because any fool can say that he couldn't predict the consequences, but an economist of his size knew exactly where he would take the country. Either we get out of the euro or we crash permanently, but we can't say that because the euro is nice. Great economists say so now. We finally stripped ourselves of the fear of going against the euro taboo. That is what the Nobel Prize winners say: the euro is good, but not for weak economies such as Portugal, Italy and Greece. We are - alas - paying a forecast from Cassandre. It's bad to be a cassandra, but you have to say things: these things have been said, crushed and rebuffed, but we have always found deaf and gray governments. We come to Article 18 in the strictest sense. I remember that similar projects are not so new, but they were also formulated by Mr Ichino who had found a very similar solution. Berlusconi's famous letter of intent in the summer of 2011 also contained a text on the same lines. What did that text say? Article 18 does not touch and workers will be guaranteed, as they always have been (alternatively, the unions would have stood on the tables of comparisons). Workers who have jobs are not touched at all. But does the problem concern those who work or those who cannot work today? The problem is those who don't work. What do we do with those who don't work? Businesses do not have guarantees of certainty of orders or have done sobbing and, because Article 18 is very rigid and, once hired a worker, there is no flexibility and elasticity desired by the entrepreneur, rather than risking to inflate the company of staff, which the next day maybe it is no longer possible to maintain, the company keeps the workers out of the door. Both texts say, in essence, that rather than letting these kids stay 12 months out of 12 at home, let them work four, six or eight months. Perhaps this is better than staying home twelve months out of twelve. This is the left that is represented today by the Democratic Party and carries forward your position, which - I repeat - is not identical, but is very close to the one then imagined: flexsecurity, or any guarantees that over time increase, and a certain elasticity in new assumptions. Absolutely not. It's a taboo. The PD took a position - we can say this - also ideological, and convenient, because it was in opposition: today the PD to the Government has to make other reasonings. Beyond that perhaps even at home you should record something with reference to the positions that normally take the parties, although dialectically it is nice that there are different positions, what has been there since then? What's changed? One thing: the majority rate in the blood. You are now in the government and you must respond to the country. So, you gotta get your hands dirty. Sometimes it is also necessary to tell the unions that they are exaggerating and creating frictions and even possible cracks. I repeat and conclude: the Fornero law has devastated youth employment. Let's think about it. It's not, defiscalizing the recruitment of new young people, who get into the world of work: if companies have no job, you can also give them young people, give them at no cost, but they can't hire them. Jobs must be created. We have a wrong euro that cannot relaunch the economy; a law on retirement and welfare that cannot work and that, on the test bench, has only increased youth unemployment; sector studies that kill the few companies that can work but do not respect them. What if we don't get out of this? On the test bench we have shown that, by lowering taxes, revenue increases, then we try to experiment and widen a lowering of the tax burden to another, as well as the famous dry coupons. Finally, Minister, not you, but your President-in-Office said to give a part - we did not understand how much - of the TFR directly into paychecks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Divina. DIVINE (LN-Aut). But let me finish, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He spoke 20 minutes. Finish! DIVINE (LN-Aut). Okay, but I'm finishing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. DIVINE (LN-Aut). On the TFR in pay envelope, the worker will say: "Well come, give me some oxygen." PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is another measure, not yet under discussion. DIVINE (LN-Aut). But it's part of the reasoning behind government action. If we give the TFR in paycheck, it is clear that it is taken. Some will lose the 80 euros by increasing their income, losing on the one hand and earning on the other. But this will serve at this time to cushion the spending needs of the family. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm done, ma'am. You move the problem to later: what will you do when you retire who will no longer have anything or if a small accident happens to him? The F.T.R.'s gone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u41	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u42	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let me finish, President! During the governments of the eighties - you were President Gasparri at the time - it was thought that the debt was one thing... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was born, but I wasn't in Parliament. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We have a debt that we postpone and someone will pay, but now we have to say that the debt has arrived and we have to pay for it. We still can't shift the problems to other generations! This government must respond and not shift the problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u43	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u44	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u45	I thought my time wasn't coming. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u46	It's always his time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u47	NUGNES (M5S). Renzi says that work is not a right, but it is a duty. It shows or does not know at all how enormous the qualitative difference between the two terms is or - as I believe - that it knows very well what it means to start making way for this unhealthy idea that work is no longer a right but a duty: it means to expel work from the European jurisprudence of law. Do You Remember? This sentence was already pronounced by Fornero in an interview with a British newspaper, when Renzi still stood up to say that he was against it. Attention, because nothing is by chance. Even so it helps to demolish, to scrap. The blonde fairy of the woods says that, being on the left, for her means being for change, being for renewal. But what change? (Brusio from the benches of the LN-Aut Group). Excuse me, ma'am. Gentlemen, please, we have listened to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue, Senator. It's not your job. Colleagues, please listen and you, Senator, continue. After all, the House is not very crowded and so, it is calm anyway. NUGNES (M5S). I can hear them, though. You have to excuse me. We were saying nothing happens by accident. Everything that happens has a reason. The words that seem random, thrown there, perhaps spoken by those who do not know the facts well, serve to creep into the mind, into the public opinion, to demolish, to destroy. The blonde fairy of the woods says that, being on the left, for her means being for change, being for renewal. He doesn't find any other words, he doesn't know any more. But what change do we ask ourselves? That end in itself, as long as it is? Or should change serve to widen the army of precarious and reserve workers, those that would be so much functional in Confindustria? That Confindustria which, only a few days ago, in the Environment Commission, has come to ask us to decriminalize crimes because of fault and gross negligence, so that - he said - environmentalism is not to hinder business activity. How come he made his voice so loud, like he hadn't done before? Maybe because this government knows how to protect Confindustria? Let us not forget and let no one want to make us forget that the main counterweight to the freedom of enterprise is precisely the right of workers. Businesses must be free to enter, in accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution, but must never be free of workers' rights. I refer here the article of an economist, Professor Alfonso Realfonso, to demonstrate some interesting thesis: first, reducing protection does not increase employment (it is demonstrated by all economic observers); Italy is not without flexibility and Italian workers are not overprotected; finally, there is not that famous duality between superprotected and unprotected, because there are no protected ones here. It is embarrassing that, in the debate on Italian economic policy, there are still those who appeal to the idea that labour flexibility favours employment growth. Just as it is embarrassing that the Government goes on like a train with the jobs act, with which it establishes the complete irreversibleity of the precarious condition, confirming its existential, structural and generalized nature, introducing the single contract to increasing protections: a new type of contract, which they believe goes in the direction of overcoming the supposed superprotection of workers indefinitely, which they say are the basis of the dualism of the labour market, which slows investment. This argument does not convince us at all and we want to demonstrate it with official data in hand, using the OECD database to calculate the EPL, the degree of general protection of employment provided by the regulatory and institutional structure of each country. By separately estimating the degree of protection of fixed-term and fixed-term employment contracts, the protection of permanent work is measured by the EPRC index; the protection of fixed-term work is measured by the EPT indicator. The more the legislation accentuates the flexibility of the labour market, eliminating protections, constraints and costs for businesses, acting on the discipline of contracts for an indefinite period of time and in the future, the smaller the indicators will be. Looking at the tables, we point out that all the countries of the Eurozone, except France, Austria and Ireland, have significantly reduced labour protection over the past twenty-five years, making their markets much more flexible. Italy has committed itself very much to reducing the protection of employment, reducing the protection of more than 40%, from the value of 3,82 in 1990 to 2,26 in 2013. These are data that - let us remember - are firm at the end of 2013 and that, therefore, do not consider the effects of the Poletti decree, which involves a further massive reduction of the EPL, which will be recorded by the OECD only next year. Therefore, we must be careful: they are given firm to the Fornero law. It is therefore clear that the overall level of labour market flexibility in Italy is already in line with the Eurozone average, just above that recorded by the Netherlands, Finland, Germany, Belgium and Greece, but certainly below the figures for Spain, Portugal and France and much lower than those for Ireland and Austria. However, the analysis of OECD data has also made it clear that labour flexibility policies have not been successful in reducing unemployment in the last 25 years, neither in Italy nor in the Eurozone. In this respect, the OECD absolutely denies the existence of a correlation between flexibility and employment. These are the same conclusions reached by the IMF's chief economist who, in a famous 2006 study, already argued that: The differences in employment protection schemes appear largely unrelated to differences in unemployment rates in the various countries. It would have been a point in 2006. Moreover, by making a correlation, Professor Realfonso himself has shown that, between the change in labour protection and the unemployment rate for the period 1990-2013, unemployment has increased as labour protection declines. But be careful: only in 2013 the number of Italians with a heritage greater than one million dollars has increased from 176 to 203,000. Therefore, in Italy there is a scissors, a very wide scissors that continues to widen. But it is not the scissors between the protected and the unprotected workers, if anything between the super rich and those who no longer have anything, who do not have enough income. The other fact that we want to refute is that Italian workers engaged indefinitely are superprotected. The Government's argument is that, behind the proposal of a contract for increasing protections excluding Article 18, there is a need to reduce dualism between protected and non-protected workers. We still use OECD data, using the index that expresses the degree of protection of workers with an indefinite contract. First of all, we see that the protection of permanent work in Italy is equal to 2.79 and, therefore, essentially in line with the Eurozone average. On the contrary, the protection of Italian workers is lower than that of countries such as Germany and France (2.98 is the figure of Germany, 2.95 is the figure of Belgium and 2.82 is the figure of France). The Italian figure is therefore lower, so it is not true that Italian workers with permanent contracts are super protected: this is a point, an official figure. Further analysis of the factors determining the protection of permanent work - hence the other EPRC indicator - shows that the difficulties of dismissal in Italy are much greater than those in Germany, but smaller than those in France. At the same time it is very significant to point out that, with regard to the specific discipline of the reinstatement - and therefore the question related to the famous article 18 - the protection of work in Italy is estimated to be lower than Germany: the index has, in fact, a value of 2 in Italy and 3 in Germany. The Italian figure is therefore in line with Denmark, Ireland, the Netherlands and Poland; it is lower not only than Germany, but also Greece, Norway and Portugal, while it is higher than France alone. There is therefore no super protection of Italian workers indefinitely within the framework of the internal comparisons of the Eurozone, and it is not true that the Italian labour market is more dualistic than the European average. In fact, by taking the two figures and comparing them, we see that the Italian labour market has an average value of the relationship between the protection of permanent workers and that of forward workers, which is 0.97, so close to 1. Therefore, anyone who has done some elementary mathematics knows that the numerator and denominator are approaching and, therefore, are equal. Germany has in its own home an exasperatingly dualistic labour market, with a value of 0.57 - much more than the Italian one - with permanent workers more protected than ours and forward workers with very low protection. The Italian labour market is therefore as flexible as the average of the eurozone's markets, since the reforms of the last fifteen years have taken care to drastically reduce the protection of labour. In our market there is no trace of super-protected workers - indeed there is no trace of protected workers - and there is much less dualism between protected and precarious than in Germany and many other European countries. We have, therefore, made clear with OECD data that the idea that the current discipline of Article 18 makes Italian workers without time limit of the privileged super protected is false and without any scientific basis and that greater flexibility serves to create more jobs is twice false and this is certified. However - as we all know - the debate on the abolition of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute already passed in fact, the ongoing discussion is purely ideological and instrumental for both sides: the Government and the unions should stop standing this theater and admit that, with the Fornero reform, individual dismissal was de facto liberalised without the obligation to reinstate (final burial of Article 18). In fact, economic justification, which becomes just cause or better justified objective reason, is enough to give way to the process of individual dismissal. That path, which was previously allowed only for collective dismissal (the old Law No. 223 of 1991) and had to be confirmed by the declaration of a state of crisis of the company, today it suits the individual and the proof of any illegality is at the expense and burden of the dismissed. But the unions raise the barricades and declare that they will now close the doors of the stable, well aware however that all the animals have fled for a long time. It is therefore clear that the debate on Article 18 is the hare and it is also clear that this flexible market is not functional to increase employment or to eliminate the protection gap, but serves to widen and widen the reserve army for the needy of work to draw for a free enterprise, rather than a company that is free to enter into business, as Article 41 of the Constitution still states. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u48	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the annoyance that many commentators have expressed for a debate, which has now been dragging on for a quarter of a century, on the issue of Article 18 of the Staff Regulations. And that at this point appears to say the least fossilized. We must, however, ask ourselves why, despite everything, this debate always comes to the fore, causing bitter political clashes. The fact is that half a century ago Article 18 was intended to carry out a major operation, i.e. to transfer to the private sector the scheme of protection of workers characteristic of the public sector. It is a system of protection that we can briefly indicate as a job property regime; that is, a regime that guarantees the holder of the job a substantial immovability, unless there is a serious company crisis or serious lack committed by the owner himself. The half-century that has passed since then has shown very clearly that in the private sector such a regime can be applied in half or less than half of the workers, because entrepreneurs can guarantee to a part of their employees a strong stability and a substantial ingesture of the job, only if there is another part of the employees, perhaps 'lopped out by small satellite enterprises, that bear the consequences of all unforeseen emergencies, of all the cyclical fluctuations, of all the small and great economic or technological shocks that are happening more and more frequently in the life of the enterprises. This is the crucial point of the question: the job property regime is intrinsically - not by accident, but by its nature - the producer of dualism of protections in the labour market and in the productive fabric. It is by its nature productive of what has been referred to as a substantial apartheid between core workers and peripheral workers, between insiders and outsiders, between protected and unprotected. In other words, who preaches the extension of this regime to the totality of the labor force, preaches an intrinsically impossible thing. This scheme presents, yes, for those who manage to enter the citadel of protected work, the advantages of the strong guarantee of continuity of the relationship: economic security is a very important asset of life, but the insurance policy by which the worker himself acquires this security involves the payment of an insurance premium not at all irrelevant. Over and above a reasonable limit, the statutory insurance policy, with its depressive effect on pay levels, produces a tendency for more self-confident workers to emigrate to less protective systems, a sort of escape from the labour law of the strongest, or by moving abroad, or by placing themselves on their own initiative in the area of self-employment even when the employee contract would be the most in line with the actual contractual programme. As time passed, other undesirable consequences were also determined, on the other hand. First of all, the so-called flight from labour law by entrepreneurs to the detriment of the weakest and in particular the increasingly widespread use on their part, in the professionally less skilled group, once again of the forms of self-employment and in particular of the coordinated and continuous collaboration contract, as instruments for constituting a labour relationship substantially dependent on a much lower cost and avoiding the numerous, excessive, rigidity of the ordinary employment relationship. Another consequence of the strong protection of stability consisted, in the area in which it applies, in the triggering of a "spiral of rigidity" (i.e. mutual nourishment between the viscousness of the labour market, its "dangerousness" for those who lose their jobs as a result of dismissal, the severity of the judges in assessing the justification for dismissal, the negative stigma associated with being fired, which in turn led to a greater hostility of the system towards dismissal. A harmful effect of this systemic game is observed particularly in the practice established for the solution of the company's employment crisis, to have priority the placement of the over fifty years in the fund integration, to accompany them, through a few years of simulation of the continuation of the employment relationship, to a retirement pension which can be obtained mostly around 57-58 years of age: an age in which the average life expectancy exceeds widely twenty years. The idea underlying this practice is that the injury of the fundamental right to job stability, job property, can only be compensated with the placement of cash integration and early retirement. In this order of ideas, it is never the labour market that can provide the alternative to the lost place. We have thus reached the present situation, in which the unemployed remain in the freezer of badly administered social shock absorbers, when they belong to the sectors for which the shock absorbers work, while the expanding companies do not find the qualified staff they are looking for. Today, in Italy, hundreds of thousands of jobs remain permanently uncovered due to the lack of supply of people with the necessary qualifications. Every year in Italy tens of thousands of artisan companies close for age limits, without the possibility to transmit their productive know-how and their start to the new generations. Among the defects of the job property regime, it should finally be mentioned the worsening allocation of human resources in the productive fabric, resulting from the fact that the worker tends to stabilize in the first place where he obtains an indefinite contract, giving up - for the greater viscousness of the market - to seek the inclusion in the company where his skills are best valued. The insurance premium paid by Italian workers for the greater safety acquired by Article 18 - in addition to the very generous social security policy of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s - combined with the worst allocation of human resources and the lower productivity achieved by them, helps to explain the much lower level of Italian gross wages compared to those of the other major European countries, which is registered throughout the last thirty years, despite the increasing mobility of capital and people within the European Union. Now, the reform we are discussing is intended not only to move on from a single rule, but to this whole system and the culture behind it: a system in which that rule is only a mosaic card. We intend to do so by building the economic and professional security of the workers desired by Title III of the Constitution, and not guaranteed by the present regime, at least half of our workers, no longer on the cast of the place, but on the ability of the workers themselves to use the labour market, to draw from the opportunities which it offers contractual force, and therefore the effective freedom of choice: that freedom of choice of their own work which Article 4 of the Constitution requires the Republic to guarantee, that freedom which also implies the substantial equality of opportunities which Article 3 of the Constitution requires the Republic to build concretely, realizing the conditions for its effectiveness in the labour market. Today, even in a period of very serious economic crisis, 10 million regular employment contracts are concluded in Italy every year, of which about a third with a duration of more than six years; and of these, between one and a half million and two million regular contracts for an indefinite period; but those who do not have the parental, friendly and professional networks indispensable, do not have any access to these recruitment flows. Is this the freedom, equality, dignity that you defend, friends and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement or SEL? It is time to realize that there are no rules of law or collective agreement, there is no inspector, attorney or judge, who can guarantee to those who live in their work security, dignity and effective freedom better than the possibility of leaving the place where they are treated badly, because you can actually choose another enterprise that offers better conditions. If today this perspective in Italy is considered as a story of science fiction, despite the huge amount of opportunities that the labour market could offer, even in this period of serious crisis, despite the occupational deposits that we have and do not use, it is only because all the system of protection of the job has been focused for decades on the cast of the individual relationship, on the protection of the worker from the labour market, totally forgetting the protection of the worker in the labour market; with the result that today who loses the job or has the fortune, it is done to say, to be put in freezer for years with the cash integration, or is totally abandoned to himself. You object: if there are no investments, there will never be work. But how can we hope for an increase in investment, particularly those coming from Oltralpe, with the consequent increase in the quality and quantity of labour demand, in a market that is not able to communicate that demand with an adequate supply? It is time to realize that the old controversy between left and right on the alternative between demand policies and supply policies today in Italy makes no sense, because the former are not possible without the latter. In order to attract foreign investors and multinationals, with their capacity to value the work of Italians on average better than they do, on average, domestic companies, it is necessary not only to reduce the tax burden on companies and labour, not only to re-align the cost of energy in our country to what is recorded in the other major European countries, not only to profoundly reform public administrations in order to finally put them at the service of citizens and economic operators before and more than to the service of themselves, not only to restore efficiency to civil and criminal justice and effectively combat widespread corruption - all things, of course, that is essential to do - but also to drastically simplify a legislation of chaotic work and difficult to understand also for the workers; it is necessary to align our system of protection of work to the best continental standards of clarity and effectiveness and, therefore, of legal certainty, which also means certainty of the possibility and costs of separation between enterprise and worker, if and if necessary. This is not possible if we do not learn to combine as much flexibility as possible of production structures with as much economic and professional security as possible of the people who work, built on their employability, or on their ability to find work in the market. That is what we intend to do with the draft law that we are discussing. We intend to do this first by completing and strengthening the reform of social shock absorbers initiated by the Fornero law of 2012: this is the subject of Article 1. We intend to do so with the second pillar of the reform, which is employment services: this is the subject of Article 2, which affirms the principle of integration between public service and services offered by private specialised agencies. The essential instrument of this integration, and at the same time the instrument of the indispensable conjugation between passive policies and active labour policies, is the relocation contract. The third pillar of the reform - third, of course, not of importance - is finally the reorganization and simplification of labour legislation. I am talking about that simplified code by which we propose to replace the huge and unformed storage of standards that stifle the working relationship with seventy simple, clear and easily translated articles in English, according to the guidelines contained in the Decalogue for Smart Regulation issued by the European Union High Level Group in November 2009. To transform a system that appears - and indeed is - byzantine, unknowable, totally unfit to provide economic operators with the necessary certainty about the applicable rules and the related costs, into an order immediately known by all the people, millions of people, who are interested in it and by the international operators interested in coming to work with us. In this context of the complete rewriting of our labour law is the forecast that is most discussed in these days: the discipline of a new contract with indefinite term \"a growing protections. With this expression we briefly indicate the new discipline of the employer's withdrawal from the employment relationship consistent with the principles of flexsecurity, which in this context must replace the principles of job property. It is in this context that the essentially sanction of the old regime - reintegration into the workplace, property rule - must be limited to what is the person's only absolute right, i.e. the right not to be discriminated against. For all the rest, however, it must be replaced by a liability rule, that is, a rule that entrusts to a predetermined cost, increasing with the seniority of service, the function of automatic filter of the managerial choices of the entrepreneur, subtracting these choices to a judicial control that, in the past regime, has not given good proof and, at the same time, ensuring to the worker, in any case of termination of the relationship for non disciplinary reasons, compensation not dependent on the outcome of the judgment. As for disciplinary dismissals, in the draft simplified code of which I am the extensor, contained in the bill n. 1006 of 2013, there is a difference of discipline compared to the withdrawal for economic, technical or organizational reasons. This difference is justified by the fact that disciplinary dispute always implies, in itself, a particular negative stigma on the part of the worker concerned. It is therefore right that the order protects the latter in a more intense way. It is right, in particular, in my view, that where there is evidence that the contested fact does not exist, the judge may, in the most serious cases, order the reintegration of the worker. However, it is essential... Senator Ichino, please conclude. He went beyond the time available to him for four minutes. ICHINO (SPI). I'm done. There are those who have spoken even more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, times are being respected. Your Group does not have any other interventions. ICHINO (SPI). I'm finishing. I said that, however, it is essential, in the logic of the new system, according to the alignment of our new order with that of our major European partners, that both sides be given the option of opting out, i.e. the replacement of reintegration with a fair allowance. Finally, one point. Our best kids today go looking for work elsewhere; they don't go looking for job property, but they go looking for countries where security is given by a working labour market. It is our duty to ensure that in the future it is no longer necessary to leave Italy in order to find an inclusive productive fabric, not divided between insiders and outsiders or between core workers and peripheral workers; and above all able to give space and easy access to the world of protected work, which must no longer be a fortified citadel, but must be the place where everyone finds easy work. For forced immigration of the most committed and willing youngsters to be no longer the rule, as it is today. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Susta and Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u50	I inform you that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro, pursuant to Law No. 82 of 30 May 2014. The list of members will be published in an annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Commission is convened for its constitution tomorrow, Thursday 2 October 2014, at 2 p.m., in the Hall of the third floor of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u51	Mr President, I will try to stay in time, as this is also a form of respect for colleagues. I think it is appropriate to start with a simple parliamentary consideration and not as a professor, also because what the professors did we saw very well in the Monti Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Therefore, I believe that with the experience of the man on the street we can make some reasonings that can perhaps lead to better results than those who are accustomed, as President Monti did, to confront only those who live in certain environments - in university classrooms or in certain living rooms - and not, perhaps, in the factory or in offices. It is in these places where, instead, the people who then vote for us live daily their work and often carries it out committing themselves to the best, with that commitment that serves to keep things going and not recriminating and listening perhaps to certain sirens that induce or invite us to think about defeatism that, instead, must not belong to us or, at least, does not belong to that part of the country that we represent as the North League. This part of the country is in fact very practical, pragmatic and constructive, wants to look forward and progress, rather than stand here to recriminate, and wants to emphasize the fact that there are realities in which there is someone who benefits from this great work carried out in a fundamental part of our country, as far as the economic resources produced, without understanding that it is not a due gift, but of a help that can be exclusively of a temporary nature, even if in Italy temporary things often assume an endless deadline. As I said, we are talking about labour reform, which is an important subject, but also about a delegation to the Government to make a reform law. At the level of political evaluation, given that already on an instrument as easy as a delegation the PD panics and in confusion, I wonder what would have happened if an ordinary law had arrived in the Chamber: we probably would have witnessed many other scenes, even harder, or perhaps even chaos, because, if the delegation law has an advantage, it is precisely to be able to delegate in the secret rooms of the Government the successive negotiations. Here, however, with ordinary law, as is usually done for the most important laws, it would have been possible to bring each one his own contribution and also his own experience, perhaps as individual parliamentarians who do not deal specifically with this sector, but who have had the opportunity, during their institutional experience, to deal with it for some periods and who may have contributed to it. I remember the period of Roberto Maroni, Minister of Labour and Welfare between 2001 and 2006, in which he tried to carry out certain experiments, with the willingness of the social partners, unions, Confindustria and craftsmen to act as guinea pigs in this sense, putting the results at the disposal of the territories. This is what was done, for example, in Bergamo with the coffer by way of derogation, an instrument that then became ordinary and that was used throughout the national territory, precisely for the benefits it brought. The coffin by way of derogation, as an idea, was born from a simple evaluation made between the benches of Montecitorio by people who, I repeat, were not professors or taught at the university, but went to the factories and talked daily with the unions, but not with those who do the meetings on the stages or go to organize concerts on May 1st, but with the real ones, who live inside the factories and still know what true syndicalism was, not ideological or ideological. There is much talk, in fact, of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute: I fear that talking about it and branding it as the problem of problems is in fact a way of keeping hidden other measures that are intended to be taken subsequently, such as those that will result from the approval of this delegation law, which may have a much heavier and more impacting content, as far as companies and workers are concerned. In fact, there are expectations of this measure, of course, both from the dada and from all workers, who want to understand what the future will be for both those who are employed and especially those who are seeking employment. Labour reform also means reform of social shock absorbers, passive policies and active labour policies. It also means making a considerable effort, but we must make funds available to do so, and I do not think that this is the direction taken. In essence, you have made a masterpiece: in this way, you have managed to displease, on the one hand, the representatives of the workers and, on the other, those of the entrepreneurs, who require more courage; on the one hand, they ask you to pull the brake by hand, but, on the other, to speed up. Something's not working. Of course, I believe that with regard to the question of trade unions, the secretary of the CGIL Camusso will not organize a dozen general strikes, as Secretary Cofferati did at the time of the Berlusconi Government between 2001 and 2006, when it was assumed to approve an amendment to Article 18 or to approve the Biagi law. Then there was a confrontation, even very hard, which I think was very ideological and politicized. Today I do not believe that Secretary Camusso will have the strength, the determination to go against Minister Poletti, so against a person who is on his side, at least politically speaking. At the time the opposition, together with the unions, had a single objective, that of opposing a government that had a different political color. Minister Maroni ended, together with the whole Government, in the objective of that action, which led anyway to the approval of a rule that in some respects could be better: we had to stop thanks to a sort of mediation. Perhaps we regret that we have not been determined enough to do what we had to do in that place. In some speeches Marco Biagi is also mentioned, his ideas. It is better to leave Marco Biagi where he is, unfortunately, because I believe that his ideas are used too often in this House: his ideas, the real ones, are not the ones that are heard here. They were different ideas. So, at least as dramatic as it has happened to him, let's avoid using his figure. I was just talking about the reforms of social shock absorbers: a derogation fund, an extraordinary and ordinary integration fund, mobility; all of which can be done and which need to be updated in terms of the results and responses that need to be given to people who are in difficulty. Reforms must allow companies that are in temporary difficulty to guarantee their employees a job anyway, because they are a resource for the knowledge they have acquired within their working lives. However, if the companies have now decoted, burned, they cannot continue indefinitely. It is a question of being realistic: when we are faced with realities in which the integration fund has been going on for nine years, perhaps a problem exists, perhaps that is welfare is not integration fund; perhaps that company has a problem of competitiveness in the market. It is better to identify other methods to re-employ those people, the real resource of the companies, avoiding to maintain them giving them the satisfaction of the integration fund and therefore discouraging them to a new formation in order to be converted and used in places of work equally productive and with jobs that give them equal responsibility and dignity. The worker, in fact, staying in the integration fund for a long time often loses also consideration of himself. I therefore wonder how you will be able to make these reforms, and I wonder with the curiosity of the one who knows how our rules work knows very well that within a delegated law - let me say, Mr Undersecretary - the principles on which we wish to intervene are written. It's a bit like going to the supermarket to buy a box of ready-made soup, take the tinned one, look at the ingredients and make sure that that's good. Personally, to say that a soup is good I would like to try it, that is, I would like the House to decide how it is to be cooked, I would like the House to decide what the ingredients used should be, and not only in the principles but also in the quantities. In fact, maybe that soup can be sold well from an advertising point of view, but not always the products that enjoy an advertising campaign are the best; on the contrary, it is often not so. Still remaining at the metaphor of canned soup, I would like this House to decide whether to put more or less salt, i.e. more or less liberalisation in the world of work; whether to put more or less vegetables, i.e. more or less guarantees for businesses and workers; more or less pepper, i.e. more or less similar or dissimilar ideas from those of Fornero and so on. Reaffirming, however, that it is not because Renzi company sells it to us that this reform of the work, this canned soup, must be absolutely good. The product is not automatically better because it is sold by a good seller. We could compare ourselves here and find ideas, ideas that could generate an ordinary norm with a better content, with that humility that belongs to the subjects who are willing to recognize that other people can have better ideas than their own, the humility that should characterize those who have to deal with the real problems of people never thinking of having the truth in their pockets. For many years, subjects have been taught (in theory and not in practice) about this subject, but they have never touched on the effects caused by the approval of these norms and, above all, they have not personally experienced the same effects, perhaps even within their family context. So theory is one thing, practice is another. This must be absolutely confirmed. But I don't want to look like what he does with the easy irony about the government, especially on such a delicate subject. We need to make real reforms. A reform like this, a reform such as labour market reform was announced and sold a few days ago as a reform practically already done. Here we have come to the point that in the newspapers we read that the Senate has been abolished and people are convinced of it and we who are still here are stopped on the street to ask why there are senators when the Senate has been abolished and the news is in all the newspapers: all the news talk about it and you are still senator. The Provinces have been abolished, and yet a new President of the Province was elected last Sunday in my Province and people ask themselves: why were the Provinces not abolished? That is what the President-in-Office of the Council said. At first reading, the Senate approved the institutional reform that will be modified by the Chamber of Deputies (so the Senate voted reform will be zero because identical texts must be adopted twice). The electoral law has also been passed. But which one, the one for the House without the Senate that will probably be changed again in the Senate? All these reforms are dealt with for measures that have been finally approved and people are convinced of them because there is a good seller, as I have already said, who can communicate information to people by selling a portion of the truth as if it were absolute. However, this is not a good way to deal with people, it is not a good way to relate to citizens and their voters. I think it is more correct in a situation of difficulty to listen to everyone's advice; then to decide, but to confront each other, and the real confrontation is made by listening to the internal parts of your party, not only the opposition. I have little interest in blackmail, blackmailers and blackmailers; I am interested in the result, what will be written to us in the norm. To date I know only the ingredients of that soup, I do not know what the quality of the product contained in that box will be. But I don't want to go any further. In conclusion, I just want to quote briefly. The first came to me spontaneously, it is very easy to connect: the jobs act can be traced (truly, some newspaper did) to Steve Jobs, the great founder of Apple. He said, "Stay hungry." Stay foolish, that is, be hungry, be insane. I believe that from this point of view the government's objective is precisely this: with this measure try to starve even more certain categories of workers and you are so - pass me the term - crazy to do so consciously and consciously, because you know very well that to increase the number of workers you need to reduce the cost of energy and the tax burden, you need flex tax, you need a reduction in the cost of public administration and the costs of corruption, you need to fix justice and intervene on the euro. These are the things that have to be done. However, wishing to decline this motto, now famous, in an Italian context, probably Steve Jobs had seen us well and had seen us right also regarding our Government. I'd like to make one last quote. I think I owe it and deserve it. Mr Munerato, who is responsible for the Northern League in the Commission, is sitting next to me. I remember the intervention he made in the Chamber on the reform of work, when, proudly dressed in his work uniform, he reminded the then Minister Fornero, who was pavoneggiava for the contents of that reform of his, how much what was written there was distant from the reality of the working and productive activity of the Country, in a particular way of the North, where much of the GDP of Italy is produced [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I also remember how Minister Fornero observed her, probably thinking of facing a Martian or a figure never seen before, because he had never seen in his life how one really works in the factories and what the fatigue endured by so many workers. He knew other types of fatigue, much more theoretical than those who taught in universities. Not everyone is like that, for Christ's sake; there are also very good professors who have done the task, even in daily practice, in the field of work linked to their profession and to their subject of teaching. Senator Munerato reminded us then how wrong that road was. We are here today, two years later, to take note of a failure and the negative parenthesis that has crossed our country with the management of that Government and with the beginning of a path, that has changed a previously established path, that has led us in a wrong direction. So, we take note of that mistake, but the problem is that you right now, instead of getting back on the right track and taking up the right road, which had been spotted before, continue on this wrong track. On the contrary, you are making the situation worse, because it is not with these measures and with these ingredients that the problems are solved, but with the other initiatives - I told you before - that foreign companies are attracted and jobs are created. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u52	He is registered to speak Senator Gianluca Rossi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in order to restart the economy of our country, but also the European economy, to drive growth and to resume employment, countless times have been said how necessary it is to relaunch the industrial system. In order to do this, action must be taken on the banking system and easier access to credit, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to reform and lighten the tax system, to reform public administration and civil justice and, precisely, to adapt labour market rules to the growth and development model that is being pursued. Germany, for example, with five million new unemployed between 2000 and 2003, the result of reunification, decided to give itself a recovery plan by adopting the so-called Agenda 2010 with the strategic ambition to regain the leadership role in Europe and the world. Labour market reform was a part of that plan, not the only one, together with the relaunch of industrial policies and fiscal reform to revive consumption. For this reason we must, on the one hand, ensure that in our country we try to move resources towards public and private investments, aimed at strengthening the system of enterprises, their capitalization, the propensity to invest in research and innovation and the ability to internationalize; on the other hand, use every available tool to reverse the recession and promote new and good employment. This is how we will also become a competitive system that attracts foreign investment. The delegation law under discussion will only be an opportunity if we can put it within this reasoning. In these twenty years we have also profoundly innovated the labour market - certainly, with some contradictions - and introduced forms of flexibility that over time have proved to be even excessive, generating widespread precariousness. These interventions, on the one hand, should have been accompanied by profound innovations also in the field of welfare, continuing training of workers and the school-work path. Unfortunately, this has only been done to a very small extent and has cost the youngest in particular. On the other hand, these interventions should have been accompanied by the ability to reason on labour market rules consistent with the characteristics of our production system, made up of large manufacturing companies often multinational, too small and very small enterprises, little capitalised, poorly internationalized and without the possibility, as I said, of investing in research and innovation, and of too few medium-sized enterprises which, on the contrary, are the ones that have resisted the crisis best, especially because of their ability to internationalize and innovate. It is precisely on this close report that I want to develop my reflection on the opportunities that the delegation law offers us and should offer us. What must be the underlying logic to be pursued? That of increasing, of course, the rate of flexibility, but not generically, but putting it within a framework of greater overall flexibility of the system. For example, in manufacturing it should always apply only the contract indefinitely, because it is the sector that drives exports, innovation, but also the very high reliability of the products, for which they need very high professionalism and competence. In those areas, occasional work and precarious work cannot be included. The workforce must be cared for and protected throughout the work phase through a process of continuous training, cared for and paid for by companies as in Germany, where working hours are reduced during the crisis, but it is difficult to quit. To this can be added two other forms of flexibility, that of sector and that of sector, in order to re-launch strategic productive segments. You see, Madam Undersecretary, I come from the city of Terni, which I know you know because you are following the issue of theAST very well, where a German multinational is doing exactly the opposite of what I am telling you and we cannot allow the cuts to that supplementary contract, the linear cuts of 10% and mobility for many workers, among other things announced today with an unacceptable statement from that company. We must be able to do the opposite. The point is how to guide the strategic transition, precisely in manufacturing, from a work of a Fordist character to a work with a higher content of knowledge and knowledge in both processes and products. Keeping together matter and technology, atom and bits, represents the ground of the challenge of work with higher added value and therefore with higher profitability. The speech is different, of course, for those sectors such as services, those protected, not exposed to international competition, low capital productivity, i.e. catering, cleaning, personal services, retail and so on. In this context, flexibility is, on the contrary, useful for achieving overall cost reductions and the consequent increase in the average productivity of the system. It is here, however, that clear mechanisms of compensation and social protection, in part already mentioned in the delegation, are needed to prevent a step too large for the former. In addition, there are three last issues. Reform of social shock absorbers, apprenticeships and employment services. The first is adequately contained in the delegation. However, the issue of the resources needed to address the precarious, the guarantee of income at the stages of unemployment and the contextuality with the simplification of contractual forms and the introduction of the regime of increasing protection remains crucial. With regard to apprenticeship, the economic incentive of the internship, first, and the liberalization of fixed time, then, have reduced the professional apprenticeship, already very tested by the crisis and the only form widespread in our country; it is not a real apprenticeship, as intended in Europe, but a form of entry of young people into the labour market fiscally encouraged, which for many reasons has not given the desired effects. If you continue this way, you might as well really bet, leaving this path, on the other two forms of apprenticeship, that for minors at school and that for high training and research, which are not (and cannot be) replaceable by any traditional contractual form. Finally, it is true that labour services have produced leopard-stained situations. There are examples of good practices - as in my region, Umbria - and experiences that are certainly not positive, but it is undeniable that taking charge of people and the loyalty of businesses can hardly be made from a single national point. Another thing is the networking of active national labour policies, but the accompanying actions to work require a local wide area service close to people and businesses. Let us treasure the good practices that are present in our country and correct the course. At the same time it will also be crucial to stimulate the creation of a genuine European labour market by removing the remaining barriers to the smooth flow of free movement of workers, including through new legislative initiatives by the European Commission; strengthening the EURES system (European employment services) and improving coordination between public services for national employment and investing in a European apprenticeship statute, on the basis of a common quality framework. In conclusion, the intention of the delegation is right, i.e. to reduce flexible contractual forms and reduce the percentage weight of the fixed-term contract by betting on the fact that entrepreneurs will not hesitate to engage in relations with the new contract indefinitely. But this will only be possible if the cost of the latter is cheaper, thereby preventing the proper simplification of contractual forms from facing the opposite risk of what is hoped for. For this reason, if we proceed effectively to identify and analyze all the existing contractual forms, in order to be able to evaluate the effective consistency with the employment fabric and with the national and international productive context, also in the light of possible interventions of simplification of the same contractual types, then we will achieve the objectives set, we will reverse the existing negative trend, confirmed also by today's data and these days and by the correction on the Document of economy and finance that the Government has intended to bring, and we will leave behind useless and sterile controversy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u54	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u55	Senator, I see you've changed places and you've got a green dress.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u56	Mr President, you will understand the reasons why I made this choice. The empty benches often represent a political action that is not extrinsic. They're forcing...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u57	I thought it was because of the color of the dress.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u58	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Let me put it this way, Mr President: that is why. We come, instead, to serious issues, because since this morning, after the important vote on international missions, the Senate is engaged in the examination of a measure that has been announced to us as revolutionary (but, as I have already said, this time the mountain has given birth to a mouse), whose hard core would have been constituted by innovative norms, perhaps able to give a shock to the firm structure that for over forty years characterizes industrial relations in this country; a measure that we should have seen courageous and powerful, so much so as to put our troubled economy back on track. The real economy, the one made by companies and workers, made of production and competition on the market, which is now globalized and - alas, but perhaps fortunately - must also be globalized in the rules, obviously in the most positive and positivist sense of the legislative system of the work, of the protection of the worker, but above all of the protection of the opportunity of the job. But the events that have followed since the launch of the so-called jobs act - which the Italians have learned to be something that was very close to them - those, for example, that characterized his passage into the Commission, the media controversy and even today's debate convince me that there has once again been a lot of noise for nothing. It is true that the measure concerns various aspects of the labour market, which the previous colleague mentioned in part: from shock absorbers to active policies, from the most urgent simplifications to conciliation, another subject that refers to a part of the labour market, that is to say to the presence of women in the labour market, still unexpressed in our country. On all this the Government intends to intervene, but the figure of this bill is actually essentially the delegation for the reordering of contracts and here falls the donkey. It is a general delegation in the formulation and will certainly be able to agree with me Professor Ichino, our colleague here in the Senate, since he was the protagonist of a preamble that should have led the Government in that direction, already at the time of the first Poletti delegation. A delegation essentially blank therefore, today even complicated by a contradiction in the application. Yes, because that revision of the contracts invoked in the name of freedom and simplicity has, on the other hand, a dirigist and not so vague taste, apart from the fact that the consultation contrasting with that decision-making and decisive or resolver of the Government - the one that in Article 4 hides behind the formula: "before consultation of the social partners" - risks to fall back from a secondary door or from the window as a model of institutional decision. Speaking of institutions, it seems to me that today the Senate is carrying out its activities in an absolutely paradoxical way, as is often the case recently. The harshest polemics and the hardest moments of the various interventions, even of the colleagues who preceded me, have essentially referred to the amendment of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, to its so-called cancellation, to the possible implications of an important aspect of the relationship between demand and labour supply, that virtuous cross-section that takes place in our country with great difficulty, not only because of the crisis, but that only indirectly today is affected by the letter of Article 4 of the draft law delegation. In fact, it should in some way be considered, following the introduction of the permanent contract to increasing safeguards - which I mentioned earlier with reference to the preamble written by my colleague Ichino a few months ago - the new contractual form which should then give rise to the legitimate expectation of stability and certainty of the workers we all seek. We are therefore debating a text in the light of exogenous factors which are outside Parliament's debate and this House. We learn from the news that the repeal of Article 18 will be introduced in the next few days. How? With what wording? Will the government do that? Will this be a parliamentary initiative? Will it be clear or will it lend itself to other infinite interpretations that will have as last effect the further plastering of a market now blocked? I would like to start from the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council - always with very precise quotation marks - in August, when he said that Article 18 was merely an ideological totem and nothing more, only useful to feed the debate august among those involved in the work, and which also concerned 3,000 people. We do not think so, on the contrary. It should be remembered, however, that President Renzi's position in August was this, the position only a month later is completely different. And what's behind it? Nothing more and nothing less than, as usual and as has been the case for several years, the eternal congress of the Democratic Party, the eternal primaries of the Democratic Party, for which everything is resolved in a national direction that, having given a full mandate to the Premier, as well as secretary of the party, makes clear a fact that - alas - it also appears clear to children, but perhaps not to all our newspapers or news reports in a way. I am referring to the fact that the eternal Congress of the Democratic Party has found it there in its solution and it is the mediation carried out, which brings the figure of the CGIL, which inspired the point of fall on which the amendment of the Government, or of parliamentary initiative, will produce the possible mediation on that article 18, which is said to want to cancel, throwing smoke in the eyes of the Italian workers and companies, but which in reality does not change, indeed, perhaps get worse than in the past. What we know, therefore, is that the Workers' Statute, which is now inadequate to a labour market so changed as a result of those profound economic, social and technological changes, will once again not be touched on in its plant and will not produce any positive results. However, we are faced with a decidedly downward compromise, as happened a few months ago with the Poletti decree. Indeed, just as with the fake reform of the Senate, we are faced with yet another mess, because the formulations of the foretold amendment that occupy for a couple of days the pages of the newspapers seem functional only to close the serious rift sanctioned in the last direction of the Democratic Party; split that then was healed and, if this happened, it was only possible thanks to the mediation of the union forces and the left of the party, which found a point of synthesis. Therefore, from the point of view of myself and any foreign observer, the supersynthesis is that the President of the Council, as well as the secretary of this party, eternally in his congress at the expense of the country and of parliamentary activity, has managed to lose in the content and merit of Article 18, not changing anything, and to win on the level of communication, even at the expense of the party itself and of the most outrageous positions of the left, which however marked and guided this mediation. Michele Tiraboschi, the true collaborator of that Marco Biagi who gave his life and is at the origin of the issue, was also reminded in an article of a few days ago, although he came from a strong union matrix, but open and enlightened, and whose reflections allowed us to introduce new contractual forms into our system; those forms that allowed the Berlusconi Government to increase employment, not to reduce it heavily as it has been for at least three years, and that have been badly treated and destroyed by the Fornero reform. Today, in fact, we are here to define, while waiting for the Government's proposal (who knows what will make us discover), the reform Fornero- bis, in this sort of single text, that nothing else is but a modest delegation that Parliament entrusts to this Government and that will resolve itself only and simply in a Fornero-a. I would point out, however, that we also have a number of amendments to consider and support. We will strongly support all the amendments tabled by colleagues in the centre-right area and in particular by Forza Italia, because the latter have the sign and the liberal figure, the useful one and aimed at the repeal of Article 18 without ambiguity and infigurations, because the whole world that is within the Italian economic system or that would still want to invest in our country asks us just that. This is a choice which would not only mean a major cultural breakthrough, but would be a necessary intervention in order to recover ground in the field of productivity. Productivity is, in fact, the real great absence in this debate, when instead it is the only way through which we can, even in the context of a legislative system that needs to be modernized (so the jobs act would do well to deal with it), help to give a real and concrete hope to all those Italians who wait for a reform of the labour market more work and no less work. In conclusion, I therefore think it is less reckless to grant the Government a blank delegation to put in hand such a delicate and complex matter. That is what the President-in-Office of the Council said, and I agree with his statement: this plant must be used to eliminate the high level of discrimination, which still exists, which remains and perhaps increases, between A-series workers and B-series workers, i.e. the outsiders eternally outside the regular market, which is all and only committed to defending the insiders in the labour market. Therefore, this excess of protection today is heavily blamed on those who, having a great difficulty in entering, due to the rigidity of the rules of that market, are destined to remain out of it all the time. I therefore believe that, in addition to strongly supporting the amendments tabled by my Group as well as by myself, we will do well to prevent a bloody iniqucio from taking place in this Parliament, which perhaps leads to mocking the Italians, making it believe that Article 18 will be abolished, and in fact not only by abolishing it, but perhaps by strengthening it, against the economy and against businesses. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Candiani and Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u59	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u62	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in November 2012 a violent storm hit the Tuscany Region and in particular some municipalities of the Provinces of Massa-Carrara, Arezzo, Grosseto, Lucca, Pisa, Pistoia and Siena, with precipitations above average, of such intensity as to cause the flooding of water streams, with consequent floods and landslides that have caused interruptions in the road circulation, electric blackouts, serious floods to private homes, commercial premises and industrial areas. We all remember the images of those dramatic days, which were broadcast by TV and broadcast by newspapers. I even shot some of the videos released on the web myself, going out with my cameras, and so I know very well the discomfort and tragedy of those populations. We have all listened with emotion to interviews with entrepreneurs, already affected by the economic crisis, to whom, after the storm, were added the damage caused by the fury of the flood, which had brought down entire industrial areas. Some of them had accompanied the cameramen to their companies, showing the damage they had suffered to the machinery, facilities and installations of their companies. Many entrepreneurs had lost in the flood the sacrifices of decades of work. Once the rains were over and the most urgent measures were taken to secure the banks and buildings, reconstruction began. A fund was set up to grant economic benefits to entrepreneurs and persons who had suffered damage to their activities and their homes. Currently, the deadline for the completion of the work on the restoration of production activities is 31 December 2014. Following a series of contacts and meetings with the owners of the enterprises involved in the territory of Massa-Carrara and the offices of the competent local authorities, there were serious difficulties in the ability of the same enterprises to be able to complete the necessary investments within the prescribed time limits. Precisely for this reason, in yesterday's Senate session, as spokesman for the 5 Star Movement, I filed a written question, the 4-02733, to ask the Government urgently for an extension of the deadlines from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015, all to give breath to these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that they can continue to work, to get their activities fully started. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u65	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that today I have tabled an interrogation, 2-00206, on a case which requires immediate action not only to resolve a legal issue, but above all a practical one. In this Chamber, in 2012, Decree-Law No 95 was converted into law, which abolished the prefective commissions, composed of subjects with special requirements, who examined candidates: in this case, these are young people who, having completed a period of five years of apprenticeship at lifts companies or who had attended a course of preparation for the examination for the ability to conduct and ordinary maintenance of lifts and forklifts, were examined by the commissions to obtain the rating. Given that it is not possible to demand from the officials of the prefectures to examine the candidates, given the lack of technical, theoretical and practical knowledge, and considering that, in the enterprises that daily deal with the maintenance of lifts, these candidates will not be able to be hired because they do not have a certificate of qualification, but above all, wanting to prevent the occurrence of cases of abusive exercise of a profession such as that we are discussing, which requires the release of the so-called licence, a profession that guarantees the safety and health of all users, including us who use the lifts present in these palaces, are asking the Presidency to be spokesperson of this request, in conjunction with the rapid response that deserves the interrogation of which they are first signatory. Despite 15 months after the beginning of this parliamentary term, none of my acts of inspection union have received any feedback from the Ministers questioned today, without wishing to discredit the content of the other acts presented by me, I urge this intervention in view of the gravity and the unfortunate situation that has arisen and which endangers the safety of the millions of passengers who make use of the so-called vertical transport, and excuse alarmism, but when I speak of passengers I mean those who use the elevator of a school, a hospital, a nursing home, a public office and of course the elevator of a condominium, maybe even ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u68	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out a dangerous epidemic that risks contaminating political life. I am referring to leghold traps, gags, guillotines on minorities. In the House we saw the debate on the decree Bankitalia that gave the banks billions public; the Senate even about the overturning of the Constitution. We reacted harshly and we were right, because that example of dictatorship by the majority is legitimizing mayors and council majorities to expropriate minorities. Not from the armchairs, but from the elementary possibility to control and stimulate the local government with inspection acts and motions. In Mestrino, in the Province of Padua, by regulation, any council group may submit to each council two motions and three questions, and in thirteen years there have never been any complaints or discussions on this point of the Rules of Procedure. But in 2013 a new political force entered the city council, and after a few months, the President of the city council, as a surprise and without space for dialogue, informed our Parent Company that the 5 Star Movement was no longer recognized as a council group and no longer recognized the rights of regulation. If you have something to say, please contact the prefect, he sarcastically suggested the mayor supported by Forza Italia and Lega. And this we did, with an exposure to the prefect also signed by the council group referred to a left list. Other exhibits were presented at Cartura, always in Padua. In Saonara the last case: the administration did not admit to the next city council three motions presented absolutely respect regulation because - they said - they were not the responsibility of a municipal body. But can a mayor, the first guardian of citizens' health, ignore the precautionary principle and be disinterested in the issue of GMOs? Can you ignore 8 per thousand of school buildings and neglect this valuable source of funding? Many municipalities have already discussed and approved these motions. Here, too, an exposition has been presented, but with what hope? It appears to me that the prefect, on the case of Mestrino, has addressed an opinion to the Minister of the Interior, but without reply for months. I shall therefore, Mr President, present a question as soon as possible so that any attempt to guillotine democracy is established and repressed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-322.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 2 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
