ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 2 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u10	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only in order to express, on behalf of my Group and I hope - of the whole Senate Chamber, our solidarity and our closeness to my fellow Senator Manuela Granaiola who, a few days ago, was the subject of a so-called flash mob: a new discovery, a new way through which some members and representatives of the 5 Star Movement in Viareggio wanted to express their opposition to some initiatives and positions of our colleague. We believe, of course, that any form of criticism which is intended to manifest, in the forms, of course, respectful of the autonomy of thought and freedom of expression, is absolutely legitimate. We believe that this way in which some protesters went to Mr Granaiola's house to demonstrate loudly and, above all, unrespectful of the autonomy of a Member of Parliament is absolutely unacceptable. Anyone's domicile - as the Constitution says - is sacred. Manifesting in the vicinity of a Member's home is extremely disrespectful. We want to highlight immediately the incivility of this mode, and we expect from colleagues of the 5 Star Movement clarification and, probably, their apologies. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, PI, SCPI and Senators Bencini, Buemi and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u11	Colleagues, on behalf of the Senate Chamber, I wish to express my solidarity with Mr Bersani. [[The Assembly stands. Applause]] who is in hospital right now. Let's hope he can be among us as soon as possible. [[Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1053. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u13	Mr President, the Senate House is today called upon to examine the bill of ratification and enforcement of the Agreement between the Italian Government and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, done in Rome on 28 May 2009. Already in the last legislature the bill of ratification had been approved at first reading by the House. The text in question fully reproduces the contents of that bill, except for the addition of a rule that provides for subsequent implementing decrees to ensure compliance with the current provisions of rules on the protection of personal data. The agreement fully responds to the need to strengthen police cooperation between the two countries to combat serious forms of cross-border crime and international terrorism, drawing on the important intergovernmental treaty signed at Prüm on 27 May 2005, to which Italy joined with Law No 85 of 2009, which established the national DNA database at the Ministry of the Interior and foresaw that access to data could also take place for the purposes of international police collaboration. The two States, Italy and the United States, are committed to strengthening police cooperation, respecting the competences conferred by national legislation, in preventing and investigating the serious forms of crime (without affecting existing international judicial assistance procedures), through the sharing of information, according to the principle of availability and reciprocity, and the faculty of automated questions of typoscopic data and DNA profiles. The agreement provides, in particular, for the identification of national contact points and means of communication (Article 5), as well as for the establishment of consultation procedures for dispute settlement (Article 19). The automatic questioning procedure provided for in the Agreement shall be exercised solely for the prevention and action of serious forms of crime. A specific provision on the exchange of information for preventive purposes concerns terrorism and organised crime (Article 10). The International Agreement allows national contact points to access the reference data contained both in the national fingerprint identification systems specially created and in DNA profiles files via automated querying. The modalities for the transmission of the data concordant are governed by national law, in compliance with fundamental rights and international agreements on the protection of personal data. Successive implementing arrangements define the technical and procedural modalities for automated querying of the dactoscopic data and DNA profiles. It should be noted that the Data Protection Supervisor had expressed some reservations regarding the application of the Agreement in relation to European and international data protection standards. His reservations have found acceptance with the forecasts, which I previously recalled, referred to in Article 2, in particular in paragraph 2. The bodies designated for the implementation of the Agreement are, for Italy, the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior and, for the United States of America, the Department of Justice and the Department of Internal Security (Article 23). The expenses of the Agreement are quantified in approximately 10 million for the year 2013, and it is expected to meet them by corresponding reduction of the allocation of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the year 2013, for the purpose partially using the provision relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the Senate Budget Committee, in its assessment of the measure, gave a non-obstacle opinion, subject to a reformulation of its coverage, updating it to the new figure of €10.248,000. The Foreign Affairs Committee has therefore amended the text with the adoption of amendment 3.1, which refers precisely to EUR 248 000. The total costs of the bill are largely (9,922,000 euros) attributable to the development of the automated fingerprint identification system (AFIS), including the adaptation of hardware infrastructure, as well as specific software interventions and updating of the system. The draft law under consideration, in the consultative session, in addition to the abovementioned non-obstacle opinion under conditions expressed by the Budget Commission, received the favourable opinion of the Justice Commission and the non-obstacle opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Commission. That being said, the rapporteur would like this measure to be approved by this House too. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Di Giacomo and Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Group too would like to see the measure adopted as soon as possible. The ratification agreement, whose negotiations began in 2009, is of fundamental strategic importance precisely in preventing and investigating serious forms of crime, especially in view of the fact that it is based on the sharing of sensitive information, precisely because this sharing is an essential component in this area. It is also based on the implementation of automated technologies aimed at promoting more incisive forms of control, especially at borders. We therefore believe that the Agreement should be ratified quickly and promptly. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u17	Mr President, I will follow Mr Maran's example, because I think it is pointless in this House to repeat concepts on which we all agree, although it is worth stressing the importance of the content of the text in our examination. We are all in favour of combating serious crime: you, Mr President, are an expert on this because you have been an interpreter of it for many years. I think one aspect should be stressed: when there was the Berlusconi Government, when there was an internal minister named Roberto Maroni in the government, there was certainly a great willingness and will to address the issues of the fight against these serious forms of crime. Therefore, with a little pride, avoiding to carry out considerations that I know to be shared by everyone (because I have listened to them elsewhere), advance the explanation of vote in the general discussion and announce the favorable vote of the Lega Nord Group carrying out a simple reasoning on the contents of the measure to our examination. It is about taking information and having data that allow you to control what happens within our country without violating the privacy of anyone. At such a delicate time, where so many issues concerning the acquisition of data (which often seem to be acquired in a not perfectly legal way) are extremely topical, it should be stressed that the ratification of this Agreement will simplify the exchange of information, but above all will encode the way in which these exchanges will take place, precisely to protect the privacy of citizens and with an eye to the security of the same. The agreement we are debating is a perfect combination of these two things: these are two important objectives which prompt us to quickly approve the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u18	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u19	President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill aims to ratify the Agreement signed on 28 May 2009 between Italy and the United States on the fight against crime and terrorism. In a nutshell, this Agreement, once it has become operational, will allow the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior and, for the United States of America, the Department of Justice and the Department of Internal Security (NSA) a sharing of information and an implementation of automated technologies. The information to be shared is specifically the dactoscopic data and DNA. The Agreement authorizes the respective national contact points to access, through automated queries, the reference data contained both in the national fingerprint identification systems specifically created and in the DNA profile files. In addition to this information (digital fingerprint and DNA) other data may be provided to our US counterpart as indicated in Article 10. Article 10 is perhaps the most important and, in my opinion, controversial. It provides that the parties may send each other - through national contact points - additional personal data in order to prosecute serious crimes such as terrorism and/or organised crime. Paragraph 4 of this article deserves particular attention, which specifies that the parties may not impose general restrictions on the sending of data due to the legal standards of the requesting party. Italy, for example, will not be able to oppose requests for data on the basis, for example, of legislative shortcomings in the United States in the management of personal data. The commitment that is now being signed strongly obliges Italy to send the data that US investigators requested without being able to actually oppose. Although this is not the seat of the assessment of the U.S. law on privacy (and while the United States is among the most advanced Western democracies and is our traditional allies), this provision should deserve more attention, even if only to prevent it from leading to problems related to violations, possibly legalized, of the right of those who, accidentally and unjustly, should stumble into these procedures. As a simple citizen I also wonder if it is not an excessive opening of credit to the US ally to provide data on people who may be censored, but who are afraid may commit serious crimes (this, in fact, is the meaning of Article 10). On what valid circumstances can these fears be based? The risk is to allow data of innocent people to be provided to the US authorities without sufficient control from our judicial authority. Moreover, this Agreement signed almost five years ago should be reconsidered at this particular historical moment, in which recent media revelations have undermined mutual trust among the traditional Western security allies. I am referring in particular to the Datagate scandal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As you know, the NSA, namely the US Department of Internal Security, which will be one of the contact points covered by this Agreement, has distinguished itself by a massive and illegal collection of data on communication between citizens outside the United States. In Italy 46 million communications per month are under control, are tracked by the NSA. Yet, in 2007, current president Obama, as a senator, denounced the excesses of the Bush Administration in the internal espionage of its citizens and promised to drastically reduce it. Now, many of your own voters are appalled to find that their President has not only continued with the same data collection policy, but has also expanded it. European allies, as we know, are among the first victims. Our diplomatic representations, such as those of other European nations, have ended up in the sights of the illegal data collection of the United States: "Goal Cicuta" was the name given by American secret agents to the Italian diplomatic mission to the UN; Bruneau's goal was instead that of our embassy in Washington. This unleashed, last summer, a chorus of protests by the leading European leaders (the most fierce were French President Hollande and German Chancellor Merkel). President Obama and his staff offered conciliatory answers, of renewed friendship and collaboration, which could be summarized with a laconic: so fans all. Yet, it has been denied several times that our secret services would act in a similar way and we are told that the Italian authorities did not know the existence of the US PRISM system at the basis of this global scandal. But let us pause for a moment on the noble justification, in whose name much, too much has been allowed, not least the violation of a number of fundamental rights: the fight against international terrorism. It is a justification that, on certain occasions, seems to waver: We control you for your own good, for your own safety, we shine your communications, your purchases to prevent tragedies, deaths, despair. Well, the figure is even more worrying than it appears if we consider that, to be spied on, to eavesdrop microphones, bugs, microphones and who knows what else were the offices of the main European institutions: the ECB, the European Commission, the Council, the European Parliament and the diplomatic representations of the European countries to international bodies (UN). According to this syllogism, Frankfurt or Brussels would have a much higher degree of danger than Kabul or Baghdad, if in the German city of Frankfurt alone, the NSA, in one day, intercepted on average millions of calls and over 10 million Internet communications. These figures suggest - perhaps I sin in malice - more than counter-terrorism, a widespread search for valuable political information and, above all, economic, for the benefit of the United States. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this moment, with this scenario, I believe it is useful and necessary to evaluate with due attention the ratification of this Agreement, also as a signal of criticism towards the US ally, to whom we owe a great deal and with whom the bonds of friendship cannot be called into question. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Razzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u21	Mr President, I would ask you to attach my speech. My Group will vote in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u22	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u24	Mr President, I am very sorry to say that I am grateful for the support for the ratification expressed by my fellow Members, Mr Maran, Mr Stucchi and Mr Razzi. As far as Mr Orellana is concerned, it seemed to me that his critical remarks were quite sidelined to the article, because, taking as its backdrop Article 10, Mr Orellana wondered and asked us whether there was an excess of openness of credit towards the great American democracy, our reference ally of the last half century in international politics, and whether this reference should not fail as a result of some events that the senator himself mentioned precisely in terms of the protection of personal data. I would reply to Mr Orellana with great frankness and sincerity: we have a lot of confidence and we gladly open credit, as a well-established democratic institution, to the Department of Justice of the United States of America. With regard to the concerns evoked in us by some recent events, to which Mr Orellana has referred, it would seem improper to make them fall into the politics that, as Senator Maran recalled, after the Prüm agreements, has spread in Europe against terrorism and against the most serious organized crime. Hence the wish for rapid and prompt adoption of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u26	Mr President, the level of cooperation between the two police officers, the Italian and the American, has been very good for a long time (I would like to remind you that the DEA has experts seconded to our Italian offices, just as the Italian Drugs Office has experts seconded to the American structures) and this Agreement is of great bilateral interest first of all for our country. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u27	I'm begging colleagues to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u28	Continue your speech, Deputy Minister Pistelli. Mr PISTELLI, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. Too often we think that the agreements that we make or ratify are homage to someone else's request. In fact, this Agreement corresponds to a strong bilateral interest and ours to the sharing of information for the fight against transnational crime. As mentioned above, the Agreement is based on the texts already negotiated with the Prüm Treaty between several European countries (Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria), and the only objection raised by the Data Protection Supervisor has been exceeded, having regard to Article 2 (2) of the Implementing Agreement, which takes into account Italian privacy legislation. I would like to point out, as Mr Stucchi said, that the Agreement was signed in 2009 when the Minister of the Interior was Maroni, but that, unlike our legal system, in the American one, such an agreement can enter into force directly in the framework of the Visa Waiver Program: that is, it is we who are at fault, with five years of delay, compared to an agreement that could already come into operation, according to the American order, five years ago. So the sooner we do the better for everyone. I claim, on behalf of the Government, that I have put this text back in a parliamentary pipeline, the ratification of which had not been completed during the last parliamentary term. As the first session of 2014, I take the opportunity to address to all my colleagues in the Senate the wishes of a good and profitable 2014. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u29	We return the Government's wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u32	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the vote in favour of the Group to which I belong. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u35	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Per l'Italia Group. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u38	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, as I said earlier in the general debate, we shall vote in favour of ratification of the agreement at our time, which we consider important and which we hope will soon enter into force. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u41	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement has highlighted the particularity of the state of relations with our American ally at this particular moment, but above all the absolute lack of any kind of debate on the very serious facts that have been recalled precisely in relation to the relations with the illegitimate intelligence activities carried out by our ally himself. The 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement in the vote for a sense of responsibility, but with all the reservations already advanced regarding the management of this type of information and the control over them, which must be maximum. In the last year, politics has been silent on these problems. We remember very well in these classrooms when others, on entirely legitimate interceptions of the judiciary, have raised indecent and unspeakable dusts [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , silent instead when our American allies intercepted everything and all for their purposes. That's terrorism. It's not like he's fighting the underworld. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u44	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the vote in favour of the Mixed SEL Group. [[Applause from Senator Sibilia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u47	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too am speaking to make a brief explanation of vote on behalf of the Forza Italia Group. As we know very well, the fight against terrorism and crime is the foundation of civil life and international security. The excellent relations - as reported by the representative of the Government - between the Italian Government and the United States in this field only reinforce even more the need to proceed immediately to the approval of this measure, which also concerns modern aspects of participation and intervention by the two police, in particular as regards the investigative activity and the fight against serious forms of crime, through both the sharing of information and the faculty of automatic questions of typing data and DNA profiles. I think that this, as already emerged in the explanations of vote and in the votes of the individual articles, represents a common will of the Senate. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will also vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u50	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will also vote strongly in favour of this measure, the goodness of which is also evident in the light of the unanimity of the vote that has been expressed in the Commission, and also in the previous votes. It testifies, as has been pointed out, to the degree of absolute quality of cooperation between the United States and Italy in this field, which is already exemplified within the United Nations: I recall the 2000 Palermo Convention, which represents the Magna Charta as a framework in relation to the fight against organised crime at international level. We want to emphasise the fact that, despite the criticisms mentioned here too (and I am pleased that the agreement provides explicit guarantees of privacy, on which Parliament and the Government are called upon to monitor), it is precisely the international level of cooperation that guarantees better than anything else the citizens and police forces than the effectiveness of these actions. That is why not only this agreement, but also cooperation at European level - let us remember the third pillar of the Treaty of the European Union, which includes and focuses on this issue today - are increasingly pushing us towards cooperation which will enable us to make more homogeneous and effective the instruments, including information technology, which are the subject of the Agreement being ratified: this is cooperation which faces the terrible problems that the contemporary world poses to us. I therefore repeat the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u53	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u54	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I note that the approval was unanimous.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u57	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, in associating myself with solidarity with my fellow victim of an unfortunate incident, I would like to point out that the walls of Milan have been filled with posters on which two scientific researchers, two ordinary professors of pharmacology at the University of Milan, are called by name and surname and called murderers and viviectors, with the address and telephone number of the home and the invitation to contact the "boy" as the researchers on these posters are defined. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u58	Please, ladies and gentlemen, step away from the Chamber in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u59	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the escalation of violence, not just verbal violence, which characterizes this country: we have all witnessed with astonishment and indignation the insults that are publicly addressed to people, such as Mr Bersani at the time of the disease. But there is worse, such as indicating which killers, by name and surname, than scientific researchers, exposing them to risks at the end of a year in which, in twelve months, the attacks, the prevarications and the damages have repeated punctually. We are in the field of eco-terrorism, and these acts call not only, Mr President... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am talking to you about two university professors who, on posters posted in Milan, have been referred to as murderers, as viviectors, with the indication of the telephone number and the address of the home and with the invitation to turn to those "boy" because they are defined! We are in the wake of a series of concrete acts, of terrorist damage, of break-ins in laboratories where researchers have been intimidated and from which guinea pigs have been made to escape. We are therefore talking about words and facts, in a dramatic escalation that also involved a poor young woman, just over twenty years old, Catherine, who was insulted only because she claimed the right to live and to be cured. I believe that the authorities, especially when passing from words to demonstrations as striking as the proscription lists printed and posted on the walls of Milan, can also track the senders of these posters and pursue them, as it is right that it is, before in our country, as usual, we cry after events that become inevitable in the climate of hatred that someone is creating. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u62	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as regards the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime, I voted in favour in Rome on 28 May 2009. Unfortunately, my station wasn't working. I therefore declare that my vote, although it does not appear, was and is in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u65	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak today of an issue that returns cyclically, whenever there are street accidents or when someone raises the veil on the issue. It's the law enforcement ID. We know that this issue arises every time there are demonstrations during which violence is triggered, more or less avoidable. Well, every time this happens, the usual factions are created: someone is favorable, someone is opposed, claiming the most absurd pretexts. Remembering that the 5 Star Movement has for months submitted a motion that there be an identification code both on the instruments of offense and on those of defense, that is the helmet, the bib and the flap, so that everyone is responsible for his own security equipment, I also wanted to remember that these things tell us Europe. We repeat "Europe" to us only when it suits us. Well, in 2001 the Council of Europe launched the European Code of Ethics for Police, which addresses issues such as the relationship between police and the criminal justice system. In Articles 36, 37 and 38 the Code states that inhuman treatment must not be imposed, and in Article 45 that police officers must be able to take account of their quality and their professional identity in the course of their interventions. A resolution of the European Parliament in 2012 highlights Parliament's concern at the use of disproportionate police force during public events and demonstrations in the European Union and calls on Member States to ensure that the legal and democratic control of law enforcement authorities and their staff is strengthened. In addition, the Police Workers' Union itself, SILP, declared in November 2012 that public order agents must wear an alphanumeric identification code, also explaining it, with reference to the need to achieve a double effect: transparency towards public opinion and the guarantee of police officers in carrying out their service. So every time we think about the identification code, let us remember that there are conventions and resolutions that we have signed, and we have a duty to comply with them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u68	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reply to Senator Lepri to make it clear that the demonstration in Viareggio (which was a flash mob, therefore not a demonstration in the known terms, but a demonstration act) was organized by local groups that enjoy the most complete autonomy, and that the related authorisations were issued by the competent bodies (questura), who were well aware of where it would take place (in front of the station). Then the newspapers, which brought out the matter of Senator Granaiola's house, magnified the whole thing a little. The event took place in a goliardic and canzonatory way (some were dressed as befana). However, we can understand the embarrassment and anxiety of Senator Granaiola - and for this reason we apologise in some way - for having been taken as a scapegoat against her party, but we cannot forget the various facts that led to this demonstration. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I would remind you that in the last few months in this Parliament we have seen all sorts of things. I repeat, therefore, that it was a demonstration by a local group, which did not request or confirm our presence as parliamentarians. As we have said several times in this House, people outside, ordinary citizens, cannot understand what is happening in these classrooms, so they need concrete facts in favour of them, not always some lobbying or other gifts that are made by the government to some associations, or whatever (I remember that the Government is nevertheless in PD formation). I therefore repeat that if the Government and the parliamentarians do something concrete, then the demonstrations stop by themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u71	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, I have an obligation to clarify certain aspects. I thank Senator Bottici for wanting to make some clarifications, but it is not true that the press has magnified this, because if she goes to see the photos in the press she will see that the demonstration was exactly in front of my house. So, no exaggeration from the press. If it is a goliardia to wish a person the molecular end, I think the goliardia know little. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-160.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 8 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.54 p.m.
