ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). I would remind you that yesterday's afternoon sitting did not approve the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday, 1 October. Therefore, before we proceed to the reading of the Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting, the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 1 October must be approved. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 1 October are hereby approved. The Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u9	Mr President, first of all, good morning to you and to all your colleagues and colleagues. We are about to start the morning with the liturgy of a general discussion on nothing, as has already been said. I would add that I feel a certain discomfort in dealing with this Government, or at least I feel the same annoyance with which the Government is regularly dealing with Parliament, unions, Confindustria, the Police, organizations, in essence with everyone. Of course, we are faced with anomalies now allowed in an absolutely abnormal way. [[Brusio.]] I do not think that my speech is particularly important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u10	You go on. He's great at catching attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u11	[[Applause from Senator Bignami]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Don't worry, ma'am. We are at the opening of the session and colleagues usually chat. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Already there are the first applause. Go ahead, Senator Volpi. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Thank you, President. It is also an inconvenience to the way in which it is proceeding. My colleague, Mr Divina, yesterday raised exceptions to the method: I believe that this is one of the few times when we speak with confidence on a delegation in which Parliament itself should set out the guiding criteria by making very clear points. This time, instead, delegated and delegated are the same thing that is this fantastic Government of not doing or better of the "we do everything," we get away with it. I would say a bit of an honest attitude in interpreting what should be done. The problem is that this is allowed, as it has been allowed for two and a half-three years now to all governments that have succeeded each other in the "Napolitano re" era; an era in which inevitably any form of decree is signed not of urgency, as if it were normal decrees, while instead we talk about specialties, peculiarities, or omnibus decrees. But this one's in. You see, Mr President-in-Office, I think that the interpretation we are giving of work is creating a new category of workers: the subordinate parliamentarians or those parliamentarians subordinate to political blackmail, to constraints, to not being able to intervene in this House on such an important issue as work, just as all those who were supposed to unleash themselves - and at least have done so until yesterday, unleashing themselves in terrible ire in every square - in the face of violations that are becoming apparent and situations that have no intention of being productive in terms of work. Mr. President, I'm quite shocked. You and I are no longer so young, we have seen other times, let's say that we are different young, let's put it this way, so I say to you: do we all remember what it meant to touch the world of work with respect to industrial relations, with respect to the relationship with trade unions? But by now, what do you want? We see unions that are satisfied with an hour's relationship with the Government, are content to say nothing and the only solution they propose is to say: But yes, we will see, maybe we will strike, something in a month's time, while today we are talking about this topic or rather we are not talking about it in detail. The speech of the delegation, in fact, becomes evident in this case. Our interventions can only be of a general nature, they can only bring back feelings, the common feeling but they can certainly not intervene on a structure that will soon be self-emended by the Government in all its criteria to be submitted to the vote of confidence. This is another of the parameters that we do not adapt to. It is the parameter of the protagonist advertising that this Government is carrying out, dear President, ladies and gentlemen. This, in fact, is a government that has not managed to make any action without having put trust. But can there be no political considerations on these terms? I think so. (Minister Poletti moves away from the benches of the Government). I am sorry that Mr Poletti, basically in conflict of interest, is leaving. Anyway, I'll talk about it later. This is a government that can't go beyond trust, because it can't get the numbers, it doesn't have the majority guarantee. And we're surprised there's a stomachache? This has become part of a private issue of the Democratic Party and has become so when... [[Brusio. References by the President]] Don't worry, Mr President, Members' statements remain in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u12	It is good, however, that the Members who are here allow you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u13	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we took part in meetings so four senator friends can't bother me. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I was saying, it has become fartish to talk about Article 18 because it is clearly about raising the ball to create a political case, opening an internal dispute within the Democratic Party, making a count within it, humiliating again some MPs of the Democratic Party knowing that Article 18 is a small comma within a complex universe that is that of the world of work. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]] I think we should worry about something else. I would say that we should be concerned about an approach inevitably enslaved to some strong powers and that dedicates its future, or rather the future of young people, to precariousness, or rather to be useful to some different economic situations but nevertheless co-interested in making, for example, wage dumping: at the time of precariousness, wage dumping is created. Last week, Mr President, I put a question to Mr Poletti to understand how, for example, we are dealing with the use of socially useful workers in the cooperative world. As you know, the newspapers say that that world is basically a duopoly, a sign; this reality has ended up in all the newspapers. When one takes the burden of public procurement, perhaps it would be appropriate not to make wage dumping by using socially useful workers underpaying them, by not reaching even 40 hours per week; so much so, so much so, the cooperative system, by carteling, takes virtually all the form of large contracts which, particularly in the public sector, are of services. If these things are not of concern to Members of this House, I would say that this private issue within some strong powers and the Democratic Party should at least concern the opposition parties, which I think - and I have had the impression of it - are working hard to at least try to point out that we are doing - if you will allow me for once, Mr President, to use this word - a scumbag. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] It is from the formal point of view and the content, so telling us things to the face wouldn't be bad. I must also be supportive of some highly esteemed colleague, because I remember that during the debate on constitutional reform I made a joke to Mr Ichino, who said that we were talking too much about the Constitution, and I said: dear colleague, perhaps I should ask you to reduce the time in the debate on work too. I am in solidarity with Mr Ichino because I obviously expected, not being of the job, not to understand everything we would have said in this House, perhaps to discuss amendments in a certain way. We cannot, Mr Ichino, because the government is putting trust today and therefore all the colleagues who felt themselves to be the protagonists - I say this in a positive sense - of a specific debate on work will remain, like many of us, mortified because they will not have the chance to make their contribution, except to pass under the Presidency to say yes or no to a trust imposed by the Government for the stomachaches of the Democratic Party. So it's okay. I would also like to say that I am concerned about what I read, namely that we must bring a piece of paper to the table in Europe. Do you know how I feel, Mr. President? Let this Government, indeed the President of the Renzi Council towards Europe, have a somewhat voyeuristic attitude: Renzi Europe looks at it from the lock hole, but it never has the courage to open the door and do what it should do. He's got behavior like, oh, what a good guy, you see? We agree with France, but we are on the line. Oh, did you see that? We agree with that change, but we are on the line. It is not so beautiful, not least because it is Italy and not Parliament that is making a mockery of the political impotence that this Government is proving to be enslaved to the real strong powers. We represent territories in our own way, in a way that sometimes grows, but when someone has never had a real relationship with the real world of work he cannot come and dictate the rules of work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] Just as a government that is in conflict with interests cannot do it: Minister Poletti is in history, the Minister of productive activities is, which is one of the first delocalizers we have in Italy and should explain to me how we do industry in our country. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] And these come to tell us that they don't even have the courage - but it's obvious: fear is 48! - to debate in Parliament and put confidence in it. I see. At Christmas President Zanda gave us a nice book, I think it was titled "The civilization of machines," which I read with pleasure and which, in my opinion, brings a whole synthesis of our political, industrial and development history. It is true, therefore, that there is no longer the culture of the crane, or rather the culture of the lathe is losing; it is true that now there is no longer the idea of the shed, but the problem is that all this is no longer in the head of the government. In fact, if you go to the territories, people who would like to work on the lathe, drive a crane or stay at the castings of the foundries there is more. The problem is, we're not doing anything for these people. Our people are on the road waiting for a miracle that comes from Marchionne or Google, but unfortunately our people, my people, the Brescians, the Venetians and probably even the workers of other parts of Italy will hardly be hired to work with the new technologies of technological development related to Silicon Valley! From me there is the "colata valley," that of the great industries that have made the history of Italy! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] And you don't need to go on a trip to America to figure out what the developments are. I wonder, then, how can a government proposing a change in the rules on work to be approved in three weeks and with confidence imagine doing so without having a serious industrial policy at the same time? There is no development, there is no work, but we regulate the work. Oh, my goodness, Gino Giugni comes to mind and how long it took, together with others, to draw up the Workers' Statute! And this arrogant government tells me that I have to vote for a proxy at work! But where is the pride of professional associations, trade unions and - excuse me - former communists sitting in this House? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] They who did battles in the streets, they who, if they had approved such a thing forty years ago, would have been outside of Parliament screaming? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] You've become cowards, for a place of power you've become cowards! Excuse me, colleagues. I didn't mean to. offend you. I believe, Mr President, that we are at a bad time in the Republic. I believe that for some years we have been witnessing attempts that are not aimed at raising Italy: they are now apparent attempts to sell it Italy, to sell it to higher markets, to higher interests, to people who do not have a real relationship with their neighbor. Of course, if the neighbor lives on Lake Lugano, on Lake Locarno or in Bern, maybe he doesn't have the same interest as my neighbor. On the other hand, we don't even have friends who do business paying employees 3 euros an hour and then they go on television to explain how they do economy! [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Scibona.]] You see, Mr President, in my personal history I have done a lot of work, I was not born in politics. I've downloaded the trucks, I've checked them out, and I still have friends who do those jobs. Probably someone new enough to be in politics for at least 20 years, this work has never done it. There is a Leitmotiv in the history of Renzi and it is the famous expression: Renzi has told many people "be serene." I want to tell the PD colleagues: stay calm and go on like this! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, Casaletto, Castaldi and Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u14	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u15	Mr President, I am learning from Senator Volpi and advance: excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I did not mean to offend you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today' s incipit weighs heavily on me. Today I am ashamed to be sitting on this bar, because it is unworthy of anyone who is sitting here to comply with the provisions of someone who has not even earned, in any way, a similar bar in Parliament's classrooms and particularly on this occasion. And not only has he not earned it according to our traditional democratic representative rules (in our case already anti-institutional they themselves, actually), but he ridicules their very consistency, as if we were in a presidential Republic. Sure, we're in a Republic of the Prenzential. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] A President of the Council chosen by a non-institutional assembly, which does not even represent those of his party who sit here in Parliament, because they voted ex post. I note with dismay that Article 67 of the Constitution, that of the refusal of the bond of mandate, whose mouth is filled on certain occasions, is daily frustrated and outraged by what from the outside - I repeat: from the outside - is advocated to you senators. Bobbio said (tell Renzi he's not the footballer, he's Norberto): The constitutional rule has never been more violated than the prohibition of mandatory mandates. Article 67 is insulted twice: the first, outside these rooms, by an extra-parliamentary assembly that imposes on you obedience to an autocratic leader; the second, in this room, with your party discipline, dear majority senators, with many of you who, in their hearts, share almost nothing of anything that the scraper boy scout asks for. A government leader who continues to be a mayor, in fact, continues to be a boy scout, confusing scouting with democracy. He, former mayor of a city and former of a great organization, who have as their emblem the lily: the same lily, which is also a warning, if we think of the tragedy of the island of the same name. An unelected Scout leader in Parliament, who here wants to impose his decisions without compromise, without the democratic respect of minorities, external and internal to his party, and without the culture of the value of dissent. This is not democracy. Today, with your complicity and subjection, you exercise your power by attacking that guarantee that a part of workers possesses through Article 18. There are few remaining workers who still benefit from this protection. We are talking about protection, but, to be clear, we are talking about obviousness. Often it is these protected workers who give solidity and guarantee to their families, paying attention to the precariousness of their children; precariousness used cowardly as guilt and by turning our constituent Fathers in their graves as constitutional iniquities. Let's talk about what? Unfair dismissal? Is protecting part of the workers from this kind of dismissal unconstitutional? Well, if there's only a few of them, then let's not give it to anyone: congratulations on the logic! Then let us eliminate welfare, for not everyone is well; let us take away health, for not everyone is healthy; let us castrate everyone, for perhaps someone here is castrated. Do you want to highlight discrepancies? Then what about the public service? Why do workers in this sector not even have a fair cause? Catania: she sold medical examinations to students for 250 euros; now she continues to work in university offices. And where's the dishonorable dismissal? Gennaro, a thief in uniform: surprised to steal, is reinstated in the weapon. Is this a penalty spoiled by dishonor, as the judges claim? What about the teachers? We take 150,000 without evaluating the merit: ah, assumption without fair merit, even worse! If an intern is absent one day he is not paid throughout the period, my colleague Maurizio Romani said: what about some schools that pay seven times the same job? Seven times! First appointment: illness; I call another: motherhood; I call another: illness; and so on. Seven times I pay the same place. Isn't that a problem? Is that fair? Compare public and private and have the courage to give article 18 to everyone. What are you doing? Do you put a precarious art on the development of thought and on the cognitive enhancement of a mental retardation? What are you getting at? What school are you doing? Each leader, however, is mortal and should think of succession. What ruling class do you want to form? Isn't that discrimination? The first unconstitutional is you, my dear Renzi, if we want to use a euphemism. A worker without rights is not a worker: he is a slave. Work is not a property of the entrepreneur, work is of everyone, work is a common good, it is like air. Without work the worker dies and the entrepreneur dies. And no entrepreneur who took his own life because of his work seems to have left writing that he did so for article 18; indeed, quite the opposite: many have done so because of the pain of being unable to give any more work, until despair, after having bled out for their company and for their employees. A proxy law? But with what right? I personally wouldn't even delegate custody of my bike to you. It is not for Article 18 that people commit suicide. It is not with its modification that we will solve the crisis. It is not Article 18 that prevents growth. Without Article 18 you could do what you want: increase hours, decrease salaries. Without Article 18, the letter of dismissal is also missing. Do you want to microchip us all by righting an honorable 5 star? You are a genius in your inability to deal with problems directly and you want to indirectly resolve them by misleading and confusing the ox people, your ox people. Enough with the usual jokes: there's nothing more to laugh about. It is taxes, it is the tax wedge, it is the lack of relief, it is the lack of capital injection, it is the national, European and global central bank system that financially makes the economy of the weakest countries agonizing. It is the wrong policy of the troika, it is the policy of the "austerialists" that strangles Europe and Italy, it is not Article 18. ISTAT data are alarming: GDP is also shrinking by 0.3% in 2014. The figures on youth unemployment are staggering: the unemployment rate of young people aged between 15 and 24 has reached 44.2%, with 88,000 less employed in one year. This also negatively affects the already daunting perception that young people have of the State, because the State is not able to assure them of their work. In this regard I would like to mention a sociological study by Achille Ardigò and Costantino Cipolla, the Constitution and the young people. A legacy to be rediscovered in order to grasp the degree of personal involvement of young people on the merit of some fundamental principles of national life, on the values and rights guaranteed by the Republic. So what for them, for these young people questioned, is the principle guaranteed by the Constitution with more value? It is not equality, it is not justice, it is not even equal opportunities, it is not even democracy: 88.5% of the young people interviewed believe that the principle guaranteed by the Constitution with more value is work. Then I ask myself: why should we expect young people to feel the State and the institutions if we do not provide them with air? Dear scraper, you are letting Italy become a colony of strong countries, instead of being itself a driving force. She's destroying Italy. He's taking us back to the 1800s and the class struggle. With what courage does he attack the unions accusing them of omerta? But where have you been for the last 20 years? Did you pick tomatoes for 25 euros a day? Was he obsessively calling in a call center? Was he dedicated to forced precariousness? Was he a co.co.co, a co.co.pro or a quaquaraqua, like today? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] I forgot, but when did you ever work? Not to mention the civil servants: who are they, superheroes? The university professor, finally sentenced to five years and three months for concussion and sexual violence, and readmitted to the University of Bologna following a sentence of the TAR? Where is the right cause here? The eight employees of a Genoese repair shop fired because one stamped the tag for the other seven and then reinstated by Trenitalia? Where is the right cause in this case? The absentee employee of the ASL of Trani, filmed by "Stripe the news," fired in the early months of 2013, and then reinstated in the workplace, with the payment of compensation for all the months behind? Isn't that discrimination? Just see what you want. People who err and harm the state must go home too. Home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe]] Behind this trap for workers, represented by the mitigation of Article 18, there are others, from the destruction of the TFR, that will remove cover to the companies (we are increasingly impoverishing these companies and it is always worse for the small ones), to the demise, to which some dominant sectors are very interested, for example (randomly) the banks. And who knows how much else he cooks in your pot, given the usual method of delegation to the government, which kills the work and the parliamentary debate. As if that were not enough, the Government once again uses the poor instrument of confidence that demeans parliamentary work, denying us the possibility of discussing and voting on amendments to a text that takes away protection from workers and does not provide for investment and resources to create new jobs. A text which, in my opinion, is an empty box. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We would have liked to have introduced a number of measures, such as the possibility of raising the income limits currently laid down for discontinuous and occasional work activities, in the social assistance and care activities rendered to families, and the private lessons given to students outside school hours. We would also have liked to introduce the possibility of including prostitution - since it has been calculated in GDP - among the discontinuous and occasional activities that can be paid through good work, so as to combat tax evasion (I have never heard of tax evasion by the Government) and throw a hard blow to crime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]] It is estimated a turnover triggered by prostitution of 3.5 billion euros, while the industry of repetitions would be worth 850 million euros per year. We would have wanted to ensure adequate professional recognition and state support for family caregivers: this was the content of an agenda that I have presented, of which paper was made, as well as of all our working hours and of our studies; so much we take the money and we should be happy. Family caregivers, voluntarily and free of charge, take care of a loved one consenting in conditions of not self-sufficiency, due to age, a disease, a disability. This act of their love involves great sacrifices and 66 percent of the cases force them to abandon their work. The caregivers in Italy are 9 million; without their valuable work the economic cost of the many people who need continuous assistance would be unsustainable for the State. The State cannot fail to take this into account; it is obliged to recognise and protect them, as is the case in other European countries: in Spain as in Great Britain, economic recognition is provided for these figures, while in Germany, they have benefits and earn social security contributions. We cannot accept that family caregivers in Italy alone are deprived of the means of social security, health and insurance which should be theirs by right. So many, too many are the gaps of this delegation work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we have a scraper that blows up chairs, but not the right ones, and it doesn't keep its promises. We have a scraper that with the gadgets and campaign slogans can do us, as with the continuous temporal delays of its deadlines, embarrassing, if not all, many. He says he has nothing to learn from anyone. Well, those who have nothing to learn have nothing to teach. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]] Anyway, I personally would recommend some English lessons! How do you solve problems? He denies them. We're going in the wrong direction. We don't want to talk about bread, we want to talk about dignity, decent work, not just tout court work. We have to put people in a position to pay taxes. We must act quickly, we must act immediately, before the need becomes law. The State must regain its dignity. How can we talk about work if we have allowed unfair competition on the market for years? How can we talk about work in the face of growing relocation? That's not possible. What are we doing about it? It takes courage, it takes courageous choices. We're trusting the Italians. We're gonna cut the tax wedge, we're gonna pay corporate debts. We will not be able to solve the problems if we first of all do not think that the problem can be solved. I know, actually, that Renzi knows Bobbio. He also wrote a four-and-a-half-page commentary for the 20-year-old left and right, where he claims to remain a convinced bipolarist: but with what courage? And if, as he says in the commentary, the social blocks no longer exist, she is making them reborn, dear Renzi, while Bobbio, who wanted to undo them, turns into the grave. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the left there is only his policy, dear Renzi, not because it is a left-wing policy, but because it is a left-wing policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini, Taverna and Barozzino.]] This is my shame and bitterness today. The bitterness of an Italy in perennial hands of unlegitimate, non-democratic leaders: either politically, or legally, or quantitatively, but always unlegitimate. An Italy in the hands of oligarchical powers, which act in defiance of Article 1 of our Constitution, trample on Article 3 and forget Article 4, gradually curing its own interests as an armchair and as a party. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not contributing to the government of Italy; you are being imposed by a person not legitimized by any universal suffrage. But that all this comes from the left is an outrage to you who say to you men and women of the left, or rather center-left. This Parliament was to have a short life, for obvious reasons, but it is becoming an agony of political dignity and a therapeutic fervour of an unacceptable alliance. To you, ladies and gentlemen, the left hand is left, to stop your nose and hide your eyes, when, with your mouth, you give confidence by passing under there. Then I ask you to put a hand on your heart and conscience to understand how unfair is what you are doing, both for the way you are doing it and for the content. Have courage: do not demolish the last sign of freedom and democracy. The bond of mandate, if you think you have it, you have it with your voters and citizens, not with the President of the Council, secretary of a party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Barozzino.]] Scrap him and let's go back to the polls! We give dignity to Italy, we give dignity to Italians, we give dignity to all unemployed people who deserve a new leader, who deserve hope and have a right to work. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Barozzino. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an exaggeration: today we are going to vote on a reform which I do not wish to describe as historic. It's not propaganda, it's the truth. It will have taken almost fifty years - in a few years' time, when the decrees have finally been implemented and implemented - to see a truly evolving conception of the relationship between capital and labour and a concept of working life now unquestionably anchored in the past. In the 1970s those reforms were necessary against anti-union retaliation and a Fordist organization at great risk of abuse. But the extension of Article 18 also to economic redundancies and the radicalisation of some antagonistic traits between capital and labour (never resolved) contributed, along with many other factors, to the slow decline of the Italian economy. A weak or even succubous policy, an entrepreneurial class, at least with regard to the representation of entrepreneurs, which is not open to a Community and participatory vision, and the trade unions, where a contractual, if not conflicting, vision prevailed, and which is not open to protecting a long-term horizon for workers, certainly contributed to this design. In short, the idea of the immovability of the place where low productivity, low participation and low wages were exchanged prevailed. I do not hesitate to call this an evil pact, which, in addition to the other competitive spreads, has gradually withdrawn investor confidence. Thus this idea of a work of property has established itself to the point that, even in the face of indisputably irresolvable and unexploited corporate crises, it has often insisted with absurd shock absorbers, useful only to protect an income that was not there, or has insisted with a long mobility, that has anticipated a pension that was still too far away; and it has avoided in every way to use these people, who still had a public benefit, in activities of public utility, because they would have in some way foreshadowed the loss of work. Now the idea of protection is changed. There is no lack of protection: this is important to remind those who make too much propaganda these days. The way in which protection is ensured changes, including for permanent workers. The permanent worker continues - and is sacrosanct - to be protected against discriminatory dismissal or for manifestly non-existent disciplinary reasons. But, for economic reasons, there will be significant compensation; an unemployment allowance, the ASPI, which is extended to all and, above all, important, strong and effective training and relocation services. In short, the idea is very simple: decide the entrepreneur when there are economic reasons and decide less the judge, restores certainty of the costs of separation and certain times to justice. Suffice it to say that today in Italy we have causes of work that last on average two years, when in Germany they last four months. In Italy we have 60% appeal, when in Germany it is 5%. But there's more to it. There has been talk almost only in these days, unfortunately unfairly, of the reforms relating to Article 18. There is much, much more, about which this House has spoken very little and which pretends not to consider: for example the simplified code, which will be a huge revolution. I do not know - I am referring above all to those who have been so hard and even a bit ignobly polemicized in these hours - if anyone among you - many colleagues have certainly done so - has read the Fornero reform, particularly the articles relating to dismissal. It's a really high school exercise; those of us who came to the end had to make some summaries, and maybe they didn't understand us. But if we don't understand ourselves, can foreign entrepreneurs who don't know Italian understand us? Clearly, we need to simplify the discipline of work that has stratified over the last twenty, thirty or forty years. These procedures relating to such stratified legislation are too Byzantine; they have made the fortunes of lawyers, consultants, state bureaucrats, inspectors, but they have restrained the free initiative and covered up the gears of the labour market. Together with the simplification of language and procedures, there will also be simplifications in contractual forms; false collaboration contracts will be exceeded; we will certainly need to reduce the precarious forms of atypical work (I am thinking of internships and traineeships), which today are inappropriately used by exploiting our young people. If permanent work will cost less (as will be contained in the amendment and then be clearly specified in the law of stability), it is likely that those atypical forms will be drastically reduced and that with this formula, permanent work will become, as we all hope, the traditional and preferential way in which workers, young and old alike, will be employed. Then there is the unification of the ASPI for all; there is the revolution of the active policies of the job, finally with a single national agency that does not mortify the regional programming, but will really allow a planning that today is missing, with an accreditation system that will be measured to results and will allow the public administration to exercise a role of government rather than management. There are new resources for solidarity contracts; there is the electronic file that will allow you to know the offer of workers throughout Italy; there is interoperability and exchange of information; there is simplified inspection activity, and I could continue. The question is: why have these reforms not been done before? I respond that there has been a sum of collusive or conflictual inertia, which are two sides of the identical devalued medal. In conclusion, therefore, with the delegation the challenge is for everyone: it is for politics, as I have already pointed out, but it is also for entrepreneurs that they will have many less alibi; it is for the unions, that they remain an irreplaceable bulwark against abuse and to defend the protection of work and its dignity, but that now they must accept new challenges beginning with a new logic of conciliation between the parties, the challenge of participation and economic democracy; that of organizing employment services. In other countries, trade unions and non-profit organizations are very active in this activity, which they can properly carry out. The challenge is also for the public administration, which must come back to play, it must become facilitator, guarantor of access, accreditor more than direct manager of employment services and, more generally, public services. The challenge is for workers, who must accept this logic of empowerment, ability and willingness to grow, to progress, to form and to retrain themselves. Therefore, there are more training, more promotion, but also more protection - as I have already pointed out - for those who today have too few. If this delegation is adopted, it will not be blank; Parliament and our party in particular will still, and much more, contribute to the drafting and scrutiny of the texts of the decrees and, above all, to their implementation. For today, for now, we need the challenge of a historical reform with the adoption of guidelines that will therefore change not only the labour market, but also the same conception of labour: less conflict, more cooperative; less oriented to the rights claimed, more oriented to guarantees as opportunities. In short, it is a less defensive vision of work and more open to new challenges. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and Senator Susta]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all it is right to stress that we are dealing with a surreal debate: we are in fact ending the general debate on this measure and in fact we have not yet been able to examine the text on which we will have to vote with a vote that should be aware and aware of the contents that will be part of this law. A large amendment has been announced which I believe few have read, certainly not the senators who have spoken so far and certainly not the senators who are part of the minority and the opposition. It is a text that belongs to a few, which has been written in the Democratic Party headquarters and which I believe has been rewritten several times during the day of yesterday and during the night, and which today will be approved with confidence without the Senate of the Republic having been able to see it, deepen it and amend it. If this is democracy, I believe that today's democracy is far from that power assigned to the people and their representatives we have memory of, which we have studied and in which we all believed. We are faced with a new democracy that is the power of few, even one person who imposes his choices whenever he considers it necessary not so much for the country, but for his ambition, his political career and his visions of the world and society. For these reasons it is paradoxical that we are dealing with this debate. A delegation law is a law that gives powers to an executive without certain content, which gives a kind of confidence to the government to frame punctual measures on a general design. This is already an act of trust. The second act of confidence is to vote on a measure without knowing its contents. The third is even to ask Parliament for confidence in today's day without a conscious and useful debate on Parliament and the country. In short, the situation in which we are dealing with this subject is certainly not the best, but I can also say: let's pass all these considerations, let's put them aside if the measure in question is actually useful and represents the solution of the evils of the Italian citizens who are in a dramatic situation. But, by analyzing the contents, we observe that there is little or nothing. It may be in favour of or against the revision of Article 18, but one thing is certain: whether this measure is approved or not approved, nothing will change compared to the number of people employed and the ability of companies to give work, to create wealth and to raise an economy that is now exhausted. So, surely all these forcings are not to create jobs and solve problems. Reading then the articles of the provision we notice that there are choices and delegations to the questionable government: for example, the forecast of greater participation by companies in financing social shock absorbers. Companies that are already overtaxed, that fail to pay all the taxes that the state constantly increases every year, ask to use more resources for shock absorbers, so that the state gets rid of this awkwardness that it must support and that it would be its duty to carry on. Another article talks about the need to identify and analyse existing contractual forms. Do you need a delegated law to do this analysis? Is this content so important that it deserves an article in a legal provision? Then there is an article calling for the creation of a work agency. Another agency? Is this the solution to the evils of the countries? Further bureaucratic passages and harmonization of labour offices and all those who deal with these matters on the territory that will take away time, energy and resources unnecessarily. Then there is another very worrying passage, which has been mentioned by many colleagues, where the government is delegated to review an important matter such as the deduction of the dependent spouse. In our view, this is a very dangerous passage, because we fear that there will be an abolition of these deductions, not an extension of those safeguards. For these reasons, even in terms of content, we therefore express our concerns and have already expressed our fundamental certainty, at a time when we are faced with a government that does not deal with priorities or really important issues, but finds time to declare that the solution of all the evils will be the reform of the electoral law and that of the Senate, as well as this fanciful reform of work - jobs act, or what we want to call it - that it will not create a job more than there are at present. Each year, this government sets its priorities as one of its priorities to finance for hundreds of millions of euros a policy not of immigration or the containment of landings, but even of invasion and simple assistantism towards hundreds of thousands of desperate people. They are obviously attracted to our country because it is known that there is no blockade, indeed, they are even going to take them on the Libyan coasts, in international waters or in countries of the European Union such as Malta and Cyprus, and that the money for these desperate there are, and in abundance (while for the needs of the citizens the doors are closed: there are no availability, indeed, with the cuts suffered, the Municipalities are no longer able to face the requests for social assistance from the Italians and all the citizens who find themselves in ever greater difficulties). These policies are absurd, but the President-in-Office of the Council is well aware of his intervention on the subject: in all his statements and in all his speeches to the press or to the institutional fora, he speaks of many topics and, in triumphalistic tone, speaks of all the successes he has achieved, as well as of all the problems he has solved, while he is well aware of the politics of the invasion that his Government is implementing and of all the money that he is spending to accommodate these people who come in mass in our country. It is also worth noting that all economic data are absolutely negative and worrying and that it is not true that employment is increasing, indeed, it has reached the paradox of saying that in August there was an increase in employment of 86,000 units. It seems to me instead that things are not in these terms: I see on our territory - as I think all senators see it - that the situation is getting worse and worse, that there are more and more companies and activities that close and that the number of employees that are left at home is increasing. We therefore have the feeling that our President-in-Office, who is the President of the Council of Italy, is out of reality. This is very worrying, because he is the sole hostage of his consent, achieved during the European elections, and the need to preserve him is the only polar star he has in front of him, while everything else does not count, not even the reality. He continues to deceive all of us with rosy promises and paintings, but they are far from the truth, and unfortunately he continues to have a broad consensus on the part of the citizen: as long as he has it, he will continue with these choices. We are therefore very concerned about the situation and also about the fact that one of the next measures that the Government wants to take is linked to the TFR, which, as has been announced, wants to put into paycheck. Evidently, after the success of the 80 euros, which led to certainly very high electoral results, he decided that in 2015, in order to get the consent again, he will have to put some other money and some other useful and necessary amount in order to keep his consent. Too bad that these resources are not additional to those that Italian citizens and workers might need: these sums are already their property, but he will succeed in the deception of giving the impression that they are new and additional resources compared to those of the paycheck that every worker receives monthly. It will succeed in yet another deception, but doing further damage: damage to the small enterprises that managed these resources and used to keep standing, since the banks no longer in fact provide them with contributions and loans, but only buy the Treasury bonds, the public debt of the Italian State. It is also the responsibility not only of the banks but of the State that, in order to maintain itself, its apparatus, its wheelchair, its waste and all the expenses, in many cases useless, has actually frozen the free movement of loans to those who really need it, namely our companies and our activities. As I said, a TFR which, if put in a pay bag, will deprive companies of liquidity by shutting down others, now exhausted and that will probably raise the income of many workers by a little, leading them to have to pay higher taxes and, in fact, also lose the security of the future. And why is all this done? To seek the consent of the President-in-Office of the Council, but also with one aim: to allow many families to pay all those state taxes that they are no longer able to pay. We wondered why the eighty euros have not restarted consumption and have not led to an increase in productivity and sales; it is simple: they have been used to pay the taxes that the State has imposed in recent years, and soon, in these days, we will have to pay a new tax, the TASI, which immediately the President of the Council has disowned because he has not proposed and approved, but that in fact is the daughter of the party of which he is national secretary, the Democratic Party. This is an additional property tax that has been approved by the Letta Government and that will remove new resources from citizens' pockets. Therefore, on uncomfortable issues the President-in-Office of the Council comes out, seeking exclusively popularity and consensus. But also this tax is the daughter of a way of governing that began at the end of 2011 first with the Monti technical government, then with the Letta government and now with the Renzi government, made of wrong policies. Two were, in fact, the things this Government had to do: firstly, to reduce taxes and, secondly, to reduce public spending. It is not doing either, and it is not telling us that the reduction in public spending goes exclusively through the auctioning of 100 blue cars: that is smoke in the eyes, as is this labour reform. It is smoke in the eyes that serves exclusively to make a living, to allow him to arrive next year still with a consensus more or less intact, to go to the elections and to be able, in his vision of things, to govern for the next five years freely [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and without internal opposition to his party and to Parliament. This is not the necessary policy. The necessary policy would be to drastically reduce taxes, even at the cost of having lower revenues in the early years, but with the prospect that existing activities can recover market and become competitive again; they can again hire employees; they can produce that tax revenue now reduced to the minimum terms and, therefore, raise the fate of this country. This courageous choice must be made, without looking at the immediate effects, which could lead to a reduction in revenue. I remember that the tax threshold is now so high that we have reached the paradox that the more taxes are increased, the more revenue is increased, simply because the audience of those who are standing, of those who are still able to work, is decreasing more and more, while the number of people assisted, of those who are in a position to no longer be able to work and have to turn to social services, rather than using the integration fund, is increasing more and more. Nothing is done to reverse this state of affairs. It goes on exclusively with measures defined as epochal and extraordinary by the President-in-Office of the Council, but that are not changing the quality of life of our people by a single comma. And when this deception ends, this great illusion - and this will inevitably happen very soon - will be faced with a country now exhausted, in which there will be only rubble. In our territories the industrial sheds are empty, abandoned and many entrepreneurs, forced to pay incomparable taxes on such sheds, are discovering the roofs in order to reduce the taxation on them. This is the future of our country if we do not really change and this is not a useful measure to achieve this result. The other thing that is needed to solve a desperate situation is the reduction of public expenditure, but a real, courageous reduction, which unfortunately does not belong to this President-in-Office of the Council. It would certainly be a difficult choice, because reducing spending also means making unpopular choices, raising objections from certain categories that are based on this expenditure, which behind this exaggerated expenditure build their lives. But it is an economy drugged by unsustainable spending. A country based on excessive spending has been built. The wealth produced in the past fifty years has been badly used to create an abnormal public debt and jobs that are not really useful and necessary in the public but are exclusively social shock absorbers. This kind of system can't hold up anymore. This system now puts into crisis those few people who continue to work on their own and try to give employment to their employees. Faced with this reality, even this Government - probably with more responsibility than the previous ones - is doing nothing, is not intervening and let things go on forever, until all resources are exhausted. This country is experiencing a situation in which companies close for overtaxation and do nothing to remedy it. So we're very worried. It is not to be hoped that the Government will hurt: those who have a minimum of responsibility hope that this Government will be able to improve things because it is in the interests of everyone, of the citizens we represent, and instead we are going exactly in the opposite direction. The Italian State has in fact failed, and is led by a President of the populist and irresponsible Council who does not care about the fate of the country and its citizens but exclusively its ambition and career as Prime Minister. This is the reality in which we live today, this is the reality of this sitting in which we will have to vote on a text of law that we do not know, that does not solve one of the problems that our country faces and that unfortunately will only bring new conflicts without any solution and without any hope. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to approve the delegation law on labour market reform in a version which, as has been stated, will take into account the broad debate that has developed over the last few months. A reform that, like the others, the country and the workers expect from this Government and this Parliament; an argument that has always legitimately divided the political forces and the deployments but that we, after years of crisis, with the responsibility that we bear and feel towards those who have the right to work, want to face with the tension of those who do not just claim, Senator Tosato, but have the courage and determination to change. I am convinced that in the end we will be able to find the right size for a reform that will also serve as a stimulus to restart employment. It is a debate that has been addressed beyond ideological fences, with the common objective of opening up and making accessible the labour market to those who are not in employment today and to those who today have no guarantee: I am thinking of the young unemployed, the people of VAT matches, but also of those who have lost their jobs in recent years. Moreover, the rule must be to stimulate the many entrepreneurs who have not surrendered to the crisis and continue to invest in human capital; a measure addressed to foreign companies so that they can decide to commit resources in our territory; a measure that makes workers equal in protection and defence. This determination is also a way of restoring credibility to the ruling class of this country. This means sitting in Parliament, aware of its role, in order to restore dignity to so many workers and workers who have lost hope for the future in the course of these years, as an accomplice to the economic situation, as a precarious one. Yesterday the data of the report of the Foundation Migrantes: compared to the same months of 2012, the number of departures from Italy, that is, of those who decide to go abroad, exceeded by 16.1 percent the number of those who look to Italy as a place to try to create employment, a life, a future. The economic recession and unemployment are part of this. I would add to this the reflection on a subject that I consider essential, linked to the reform of the labour market: safety in the workplace. Colleagues, as you know, the Committee of Inquiry on so-called white deaths, accidents and occupational diseases which I am honored to preside over has recently been set up. It is an honor, yes, but also a great responsibility. I come from the world of small and medium-sized enterprises and I know very well how, unfortunately, the issue of safety affects not only all the regions in Italy, but across almost all the economic and productive sectors, and how, especially at this time, there is a strong risk that accidents and deaths in the workplace will increase. The 2013 figures speak of a slight decline. I don't know if even in 2014 will confirm the descending trend of these years, it is an auspicious. It is true that since I chaired the Commission, i.e. since 7 July last, I have seen almost 100 deaths at work, not to mention accidents and unfortunately accidents at work. We are talking about almost 100 victims in three months of work, not to mention that in August many companies and many workers stopped for the summer break: a dramatic and unacceptable average for a civil country, a real plague for the nation. It is an emergency that takes away dignity from work and the worker; a national emergency that politics cannot ignore by simply commenting on statistics. That is why I believe it is necessary to try to reflect and to address the issue as a whole, together with the reform of the labour market. The issue that concerns our country in particular is the education and culture of workplace prevention. I was recently in Adria, near Rovigo, where a few weeks ago there were funerals of the four victims who died in a facility located in that municipality. Beyond the pain of the families of the four victims, one of the things that struck me most was the embarrassment and amazement of a Carabinieri marshal, when he told me that in a factory of an American multinational located not far from the site of the accident even the police can enter if they do not comply with all the safety regulations. I think it is an example of how culture and education in our country are lacking in compliance with the rules for safety in the workplace. This move requires all the institutions to be given priority: health and safety are the added value of our economic system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is essential that the issue of safety at work cannot and should not become a point of political confrontation. This issue cannot be exploited in the political debate on labour market reform, and I am referring to some of the speeches I heard in this House last week. We cannot allow any line-up to focus on the dignity and health of workers. The alarming figures that come to us, particularly those relating to the last month of September as the crisis continues, must require the institutions and political forces to question each other and find a solution together. We have seen that the rules and sanctions are not enough: we need objectives to be achieved through training and information. Much is done by the institutes responsible, a fundamental work always in synergy with the institutions. Much remains to be done: there is the control knot. And it is from INAIL, an agency that has in itself many potentials, that comes in fact the warning to improve the coordination of controls and reorganization, on the reorganization and coordination of competences, confirming the strategic value of the issue regarding the rationalization of public controls. I therefore ask for everyone's contribution, Mr President. Article 1 of our Constitution lays down the right to work, which cannot be excluded from the right to health and safety of workers. The phenomenon of accidents at work in Italy retains unacceptable dimensions; in a civilized country, we cannot lower the levels of safety with a view to saving. We are asking for everyone's contribution to this: the work of the Commission of Inquiry will be tightened from this point of view. There are several information that we have asked the competent prefectures in the places where the incidents occurred and hearings are already scheduled with both the Minister of Labour and the representatives of the National INAIL. Another issue on which to try to change the approach of those who, like us, should be interested, is the issue of large contracts. If it is true that investing is the key word to relaunch our country and make it competitive globally, I add that it is essential to invest with attention to the topic of security, qualifying point for those who want to play a leading role, which is why we will also go to the construction sites of Expo 2015. As well as trying to make our contribution in sites such as Taranto, not only on the moral or investigative level, but as a pungolo so that the theme of safety is or becomes, for that industrial complex, a qualifying performance in the same way as the production quality. We cannot allow the entrepreneurial system, in order to remain competitive in times of difficulty, to cut the costs on safety considered to be unfairly different and, at times, excessive. Reasoning for labour market reform also means reasoning on a new model of development. Reasoning for the simplification of the regulatory framework, for the rationalisation of the supervisory bodies, for measures capable of supporting economic recovery, means thinking about the future. From here we must start to restore dignity to work and to those who do not have any kind of protection and guarantee. For these reasons, I appeal to this House: let us not exploit the future and hope of the workers and workers of this country; let us not leave them alone in their insecurity; let us begin by restoring them trust and dignity; let us consider how to reverse the anti-cyclical policies of these years by giving guarantees to those who do not have them today. From here we start again with education at work and the culture of security, because, let me say, cases such as those that occurred in Adria, Ravenna and in many other parts of our country should no longer happen. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u21	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Poletti, who unfortunately no longer see (because he has left), we should ask ourselves how this general debate on jobs act is judged by the citizens who are listening to us. For us, this is an unnecessary scene, since the Council of Ministers decided on Monday evening to authorise the application of the question of confidence in the measure. Trust was obvious: we learned to know you, dear Premier Renzi (to whom I speak ideally)! The promises, the slides, as well as the date-targeting correspond to his irrepressible need to amaze in order not to be second to anyone. As was the case on 7 August last for the reform of the Senate, a bad centralist reform, so today, on 8 October, the day of the European Summit in Milan on work, must represent the date symbol for the reform of the work to be carried in dowry and flagship to the European partners, in particular to Frau Merkel. Therefore the imperative is to reach the rapid and certain approval of the jobs act, because the work is the urgency of the government: it serves to demonstrate efficiency, ability to innovate. But with the effectiveness we are not there, Renzi: it is yet another reform patacca! [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] So it becomes normal for you, Renzi, to put your trust even on a bill of delegation, which is very rare and rather arrogant and authoritarian practice. Parliament will not give the Commission the instructions on which to delegate legislative decrees, but it is its Executive, Prime Minister Renzi (since you write the maxi amendment of the Government), who wants to replace Parliament in full and - in fact - to legislate without substantial control. This is a serious conflict of interest, which stirs up the deafening silence of President Napolitano. Once again, you, Renzi, demonstrate your perverse narcissism, whose main symptom is a deficit in the ability to feel empathy towards others, that is - in this case - Parliament, which is an annoyance, a ballast. For her every means is fine, in order to overhang the pockets of resistance that are in the country, but also to cut off the heads of the internal opponents in the house of the PD. It is shameful how it is making citizens pay for internal party power struggles. You, Prime Minister Renzi, are giving a shit about the good of the country. This is another reason why we are having a general discussion which is demeaning, and which has gone astray, because we do not know the content of the maxi amendment. In addition to the indications on shock absorbers, active labour services and policies, on the reorganization of contractual forms, on Article 18 and on support for motherhood, will there also be indications for the modification of the law on trade union representation, which seems to have been mentioned yesterday by the employers' associations? Well, it's not a minor matter. Will there also be those for the TFR in paycheck of the workers (subject on which you, Renzi, have been insisting for several days)? Look, the anticipation of FTT to employees would, for small and medium-sized enterprises, amount to EUR 10 or perhaps EUR 12 billion. To each of them, the provision would cost an amount of several thousand euros. Few entrepreneurs would be able to take charge of this additional cost. Of course, TFR is a form of deferred salary, i.e. workers' money. However, given the current lack of liquidity in small businesses, accompanied by credit crunch, the absurd credit crunch by banks, few entrepreneurs would be able to have the necessary resources to anticipate half of the FTT to their employees. Not only that, given their low solvency, banks would hardly be willing to lend loans to persons at extremely risk of insolvency. The banks - we know well - at this moment lend money only to those who have a certain financial soundness; to others, unfortunately, access to bank credit is practically precluded. Just about the banking world, why doesn't it do anything, Prime Minister Renzi? Why not make a Glass-Steagall Act, a reform of the system to arrive at a necessary separation between investment banks and traditional commercial banks, to prevent the real economy (entrepreneurs, first and foremost, who need credit) from being continually exposed to negative financial events? To return to the question of the FTT, if there were to be 80 or 100 euros more per month in paychecks, as suggested by you, Renzi, this would represent for small and medium-sized enterprises the payment to their employees of 100% of the FTT, since in 2013 the monthly salary received in small and medium-sized enterprises was 1,327 euros. If carried forward, this provision would affect more than four million Italian companies (those with less than 50 employees), costing them, in the absence of any agreement with the ABI (which certainly will not be there), the figure of almost one billion, because at this point would amount to the cost of passive interest for the anticipation in bank of the necessary resources. We wonder, and I ask you, Premier Renzi, if it is appropriate that the system of our small and medium-sized enterprises, already exhausted by high taxation and which has seen the failure of many companies due to excess credit, causes the delay of the payments of the public administration (it is still waiting, despite the 21 September already passed), to have to finance with own resources the tax redistribution imagined by the government. Premier Renzi, we understand the ratio of the proposal of the TFR in pay envelope, but it is not a statesman and it is not forward-looking, in the first place, to increase the tax revenue and, therefore, to help the budget of the state, budget that makes water from all sides, but that sees in it one that makes them wider, instead of closing them (since I think it has in mind to make the next law of stability in deficit of more than 12 billion euros). Secondly, it is not by statesman and it is not far-sighted to gouge workers with a heavier paycheck since February 2015. This could make you think that you are aiming for early elections in the spring, but many workers are not taking the bait, because they are convinced it is more useful to keep the liquidation for when they retire or for the case of the bankruptcy of the company in which they work. Premier Renzi, let go of the TFR operation that can never be to invariance of cost. To put more money into workers' payrolls, there is only one solution: to significantly reduce the tax wedge, avoiding using our small businesses as an ATM. The vexed question, the controversy about Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, many have understood that it is a totem. We forget, in fact, that 90% of companies in Italy are small and therefore Article 18 does not apply, unless the worker is fired for discrimination, and in fact, so far, very few cases have occurred. One forgets, moreover, that there are very few cases of work that go to judgment. Experience has shown that the three-quarters of cases of employment are still conciliating before the case is brought before the Court, or at the first hearing at the time of the court's conciliatory proposal. Normally, people fired want money, they don't want reinstatement, or rather, they want reinstatement by transforming it into the 15 monthly replacement allowance, so around Article 18 there is so much hypocrisy. Premier Renzi, the North League considers this delegation on the job an opportunity that you wanted and piloted to raise yet another fuss and distract the attention of the public from the poor macroeconomic results achieved by the action of its Government: the public debt has grown (it is news yesterday from the International Monetary Fund that has reached 136.7%), the deficit and the unemployment, in particular the youth one, not to mention the illegal or so-called refugees, that cost us billions of euros. They reduce GDP and inflation, that is, we are in deflation, and consumption also decreases, to demonstrate the total failure of the bonus of 80 euros, bonus that you are forced to confirm in 2015 without being able to extend it as you promised to the various weak groups: pensioners with the minimum, the unemployed, the incapients, the self-employed with low incomes. We repeat it frankly: Article 18 is a totem functional to its protagonism, Prime Minister Renzi and, in this battle, to the visibility of opponents such as unions, certain political forces and even opponents within his party. Premier Renzi, the labour crisis in Italy does not have among the main responsible article 18, as the CEO of General Electric said, already mentioned yesterday by my colleague Ricchiuti. The protection of workers is not the main obstacle to investment in Italy. Look, Prime Minister Renzi, on the one hand it is wrong to think that defending Article 18 in all respects means defending jobs, because if a company goes badly, the job is lost anyway. As it is unfortunately happening to the 73 workers of the historic company Trafilerie Brambilla of Calolziocorte, a city in which I live, that on 1 October was declared bankrupt, despite two questions submitted to you, Minister Poletti, months ago, with which you were asked to speak. As unfortunately will happen to the 156 employees, the majority of women, of the ERC always Calolziocorte, company operating in the field of lighting, that just the day before yesterday presented the books in court for the decree to days of bankruptcy, and also for the ERC the credit crunch was fatal. As is happening to the employees of Jabil, the multinational based in Marcianise who announced mobility for 380 employees. For these workers, soon at home, there will be no his 80 euro bonus, Prime Minister Renzi. But mainly she is wrong not to affect and remove the brakes that are imposed on the free activity of companies in Italy, real criticalities of the Italian labour market that crush the well-known and recognized quality of the Italian workforce. These boulders are civil justice, the abnormal bureaucratic machine (so oppressive that it itself creates fertile ground for the development of illegal practices); the variability of the rules, the high costs of energy, and especially the increasingly hateful and oppressive tax: all factors that compress the capacity of an entrepreneur and adversely affect the decision of an entrepreneur to invest in Italy. How do you do business in Italy when the impact of the tax burden has reached a scandalous level? The tax burden on our companies is 65.8%, with a negative record in Europe and 138th place in the world. Yet the EU average is 41.1%, while the world figure is 43.1%. The first thing to do with this level of tax burden is LaPalissiana: it is a duty to reduce it. Instead, you, Premier Renzi, in place of mitigating these problems, helped to worsen them with TASI, a local tax to which the bistreated mayors had to resort, by means of heavy cuts, including what was used to finance the bonus of 80 euros. The deadly mix of IMU and TASI on the sheds has produced a further tax increase to the enterprises: compared to last year (the CGIA of Mestre) in three out of four provincial capital municipalities the taxation on the sheds has increased. The reform of the Chamber of Commerce, contained in the decree on public administration, is also another of its questionable measures, another stupid one. Premier Renzi, you have left, you launch in the left, towards Europe to say enough to the suicidal path of austerity, as defined the other day Stiglitz, Nobel laureate for the economy, all to choose, through flexibility, the path of growth policies, but has returned with the pits in the sack. The text on which it will call for confidence would also appear to be yet another downward compromise between the components of the PD. Article 18, in addition to the reinstatement for discriminatory dismissal, seems to refer to the disciplinary procedure, albeit for certain cases to be indicated. The reform is also cost-free: this means, to make it clear to the public, that there is not a euro to boost production and employment, but there is only talk. Premier Renzi, if you don't want to fail, have the courage to accept and make your own the proposals of the League: they are reasonable and effective, like that of the holidays of solidarity. Begin immediately from these first three, feasible in a few days. First, drastically lower taxes by applying flex tax, a single tax rate. It is a measure applied in more than forty countries in the world that also allows to counter and bring out tax evasion. Secondly, remove or, at the limit, suspend sector studies, an institution that is insane to maintain in a period of stagnation and economic crisis such as this. Finally, third, remove the Fornero law, which in addition to creating that sea of exodati, of which much still awaits protection, has made it a mirage for young people to enter the world of work. Recession and reform of pensions license plate Fornero represent an explosive mixture for young people, an exceptionally unfavorable mix that must be dismantled: do so immediately, Prime Minister Renzi, otherwise millions of Italians will think about it next year that will come to vote for the referendum repealing, in favour of which 600,000 citizens have signed the proposal of the North League to call the referendum. Premier Renzi, one last thing: for some time now she has married the model Marchionne and proposes it everywhere. But he couldn't choose anything else? Marchionne has residence in Switzerland and there pays taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Morra.]] The new Fiat-Chrysler has its registered office in the Netherlands and its tax office in the UK. I would say that as an example of Italian entrepreneurship it is quite shameful and you, Prime Minister Renzi, should be ashamed. We of the North League prefer to Marchionne the craftsman, Mr. Brambilla Lombardo or Mr. Furlan veneto, who get up at dawn and work until late evening breaking his back. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes]] , and maybe they take the bread out of their mouths or ipotecan their own home rather than leave home their own employee who represents an asset for them. And sometimes, unfortunately, they commit suicide over credit and because they have to do with an obtuse state, of which you, Mr Renzi, once again is the highest expression. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I find it really surreal to have to discuss a reform that should perhaps be the mother of all the reforms, reform of the reforms, the reform of the job, which concerns or should concern the main problem of the country, with a way of proceeding like what the Renzi Government has put in place. We are dealing with a text before the House, which has been passed by the Commissions, on which, therefore, there has been a debate, which will be overturned, or at least rewritten - it is not well known how and in what form - with a large amendment on which the Government intends to put its trust. Among other things, this is a draft delegation law, as my previous colleague said: it is a very serious fact that will also create dangerous precedents, and all this takes place in a surreal climate in this House, with almost empty benches, both on the right and on the left, as opposed to us in the North League, who are always present to debate a subject strongly felt by the country and the citizens. I am referring above all to the PD benches, sadly left empty yesterday, in general indifference. [[Applause from Senator Taverna]] This means how much the topic of work really interests you, dear colleagues, who - I see - are listening to me with great enthusiasm, with the benches of the Government also sadly empty. I am sorry, Mr Poletti, that you are there alone; sometimes you come out and then you come back, probably to discuss this major amendment that we have not yet seen, but on which - I repeat - you will ask for confidence. A blank confidence in a text that is not well known what it will contain, even if one thing we certainly know: it contains nothing that really solves the tragedy of the work that is missing in this country. The country's tragedy is that there is no employment; the country's emergency is that we have almost six million people who have no income for work, more than three million unemployed; three million people who have lost their jobs and are unable to re-enter the labour market (not to mention the case of people who may have lost it at 50 years of age and certainly cannot easily find open doors in businesses) and that 44.2 percent, certified last week, of youth unemployment. In the face of all this, the Renzi Government intends to put its trust in a delegated legislative text, which therefore contains principles and guiding criteria. This is what we say to the citizens and workers, who are waiting to see that the government puts serious and true measures in place for them, that contrast the social drama they are experiencing, to help them understand how to get to the end of the month; this we say to companies, strangled and suffocated by a tax that prevents them from being able to invest and produce and therefore to hire. In the face of all this, principles are indicated, which will resolve the problem perhaps of Article 18 of the Statute, perhaps of the contractual types to be applied, certainly trying to give protection to workers. But what do you always talk about? Of workers already employed and of enterprises who already have employees. Nothing is done and nothing is said about what you want to do to create opportunities and opportunities for work. These are guiding principles and criteria that actually indicate only one thing: we are debating nothing. The one on Article 18 is a fake problem. There have been great discussions and big talk, unions on the one hand and unions on the other, but, by chance, they wink at Renzi and a little bit 'not. In fact, this is a measure that affects very few companies in our country, that is only the big companies for which Article 18 applies. It is not to be remembered that the vast majority of companies that feed our productive fabric are small enterprises, for which Article 18 does not apply and for which, in the case of unlawful dismissals, protection already exists. I am speaking of my region, of my Veneto: Article 18 concerns only 2% (more or less) of companies, because the productive fabric is made by craftsmen, traders and small entrepreneurs, who do nothing about Article 18. But I would also like to say that in Article 18 those who have no income from work and those who do not have work today do absolutely nothing about it. In Article 18 they do not even know what the problem is, because they do not have work, they do not have employment opportunities. With Article 18, basically, you don't eat. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Another question: the way in which we proceed is a disgrace. Actually, the magicians that the provision contains are hidden. As we read the texts, ladies and gentlemen, you will vote for a blank vote on a text that you do not know anything about. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] , the text that at least came to us we read. There are large wizards, such as the dangerous repeal of the deduction for the dependent spouse. In the original text it was expressly intended to repeal; then it was understood that a huge piece of crap had been made - to say the least - and the text has been changed. Now we are using a smoky and ambiguous term 'harmonisation of the deduction system'. Too bad, however, that the actual and tout court repeal of deductions for the dependent spouse has returned from the window to the DEF, because the DEF is talking about repealing. I would like to draw attention to this point, on which I believe it is worth considering. I hope that colleagues who are so attentive and present among the PD benches, but also in the New Right Centre, who have their own battle on the subject of work (which we do not see present here), will reflect. The Renzi Government's intention is to abolish the relief in order to create a kind of tax credit to promote female employment. Great. Too bad, however, that the back-ride I spoke of (first repeal and then harmonisation) has returned, ambiguously, obscurely and obscurely (as always this Government does), to the DEF, where (for those who have bothered to read it), with regard to the reconciliation of working times with parental needs, it is expressly stated: abolishing the deduction for the dependent spouse as a tax credit formula for incentive to women's work. Then we ask: is this deduction for the dependent spouse there or is there, there will be or will not be? I would point out - and this is the true fact that citizens should be reminded of this - an aspect relating to this continuous ball of EUR 80 per month. To the same categories to which Renzi has promised the 80 euros they remove the deductions for the dependent spouse, that they are worth well 700-800 euros per year, 65 euros per month. So Renzi pretends to give 80, which then disappear, because with all the taxes and taxes that have been increased (always hidden) those 80 euros disappear into thin air, but above all they remove an additional 65 euros per month for the dependent spouse. So, what are we talking about? It is a continuous mockery of Italian citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is as if Renzi now said that it no longer gives the 80 euros - which, by chance, were given in the election campaign, for pure propaganda - because it takes away 65 euros and therefore essentially there is an exchange of 15 euros. It is always and only the classic vote of exchange, to call it with the right expression. The text of the delegation (because we always talk about principles) refers to contractual typologies. In this case too, it must be stressed that it is fine and it is right to discuss the best and greatest protection to be accorded to workers, but we are always talking about the workers already employed. We cannot act on a serious reform of work and social cushions at zero cost. The reality is that no extra euro is given for the issue of work. Nothing is allocated for the work; I repeat, there is no extra euro. This is the truth contained in this famous provision on which the question of trust will be raised. Thus, it changes zero for the unemployed; it changes zero for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have the opportunity to invest and create jobs. Is this the way to deal with the problem? We would have liked - and frankly we are also a little shocked by the way we proceed - that, just installed, the Renzi Government, in the face of the emergencies of the country, had immediately put in place, first, measures to counter this problem, this emergency, therefore intervening on the economic and fiscal side, reducing the tax on citizens, families and businesses, reducing the tax wedge, trying to leave to the companies the possibility to invest, guaranteeing them the ability to resort to credit. That would promote employment! In order to do this, today it is possible to find resources - we say it constantly, every day - by attacking unproductive public expenditure in a drastic and real way. The central state machine costs us about 840 billion euros per year; of these more than 200 are attackable immediately. On this front, however, we have not seen anything in the parliamentary classrooms, we have not really seen anything go through. Then, if resources can be found there, these should be immediately turned to the world of work. This is what we repeat all the time. A way to act on taxation, as my fellow Members have also mentioned, could be found. For example, we could introduce - as many other European countries do - a single fixed tax rate, the same for all; we proposed it at 20%. This would also help to combat tax evasion. But even on this front no table has been opened, there is no discussion, there are always and only statements of principle. The problem is - I repeat - workers who unfortunately do not have the job. We must also remember the estimates, because perhaps it is worth real reflections. 2013 was a tragic year for the boom of entrepreneurs who unfortunately took their lives for the impossibility to move forward. Last year it was almost reached the figure of 150 people (which unfortunately are only those bounced to the news as well as known cases), among small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, who choked by the exotic weight of taxes have even taken their lives. Do we realize what social drama we are experiencing, what is the impact for families and our communities? In the face of all this, we continue to see an increase in real despair in 2014. In Veneto, even a toll-free number has been activated for calls from people living in such dramatic situations so that at least they can find a system of help in society and institutions. Well, there have already been 1,140 calls in early 2014. We continue to talk about great principles, types of contract, Article 18, yes or no. We do not realize that nothing is really being done to invest in what would be necessary to promote economic recovery, the increase in domestic demand and therefore the possibility for companies to hire. In the last few days, however, we have seen another announcement, that of the FTT. As my previous colleague and my group colleagues pointed out at yesterday's sitting, this is a very dangerous way of proceeding and we must be very careful about this. It is the wage of the workers; it is a salary which in part might already be available if they so request. Moreover, it does not have the weight of taxation that would be expected for the salary, and it is not well known whether the Government's intention is to withdraw it and place it in a paycheck and then tax it; We do not know, nothing is said about this and nothing is written. What is the government's real intent? Attack the savings of Italian citizens and families, because of the TFR they will need in the difficult moment of crisis in which they will come out of work. It is a dangerous way of doing business and business too, because for the latter that amount is very difficult to translate and free in terms of liquidity, because they have invested on it; it is a sum of which they do not have availability, also taking into account that they cannot access the credit of the banks; therefore a vicious circle is created very dangerous and they damage the enterprises: it has been estimated by studies already carried out that this would cause a damage of 10-12 billion euros. We therefore act by attacking the savings of workers and families, once again. The real fact is that the government is scraping the barrel to Italian families and citizens [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] introducing new taxes in a subtle and surreptitious way, making them impose on local communities and municipalities. Let us look at what is happening with TASI, TARI, IMU, IUC: we no longer understand how many types of local taxes mayors are forced to impose on their citizens as collectors on behalf of the State. In this subtle way of increasing taxation, the government is already attacking the few savings left by families, because if there is no work, a guaranteed wage, a guaranteed income from work, they must draw on the savings of a lifetime. Pensioners are also doing so, eating their pension to help children who are unable to enter the world of work. In addition now there is also the worry to see that you get to scrape the barrel to the bottom because you will probably also act on their TFR. This is a very reckless and shameful way of proceeding. In the face of all this, we continue to make proposals of common sense, which unfortunately remain unheard of. We talked, for example, about the possibility of reducing the tax wedge by acting immediately on unproductive public expenditure, applying the famous standard costs, that if they were extended to all state services in all regions they would already allow to increase the state coffers by 30 billion euros. But on this subject there are always and only announcements of principle, and then you see nothing. We have proposed to apply a single tax rate, a system that would allow families to be lightened by the weight of taxes, and would allow them to recover a lot from the fight against tax evasion, because they would all pay more. We have spoken of the immediate need to abolish the Fornero law, but also on this the Government does not listen and is silent in a shameful way. The Fornero law has cast the labour market. Mrs Munerato said well by intervening yesterday: we have grandparents in factories and young unemployed people at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I repeat, the Fornero law has cast the world of work, leaving thousands of people without income and protection, because the theme of exodus has been on the table for years and is not solved. In the face of all this, the citizens responded by signing our referendum; millions did so. We have filed this request but the Government still does not carry on an initiative wanted by citizens on a subject strongly warned by pretending nothing, pretending not to see the problem. We have also said that the debate on principles is a false problem: serious labour reform cannot be carried out and social shock absorbers introduced at zero cost, without investing a euro for young people. But there is more because in reality, in an always subtle and hidden way, the Government does worse and we must tell our fellow citizens that they listen to us. For example, for youth employment not only nothing is done, but huge damage is created: in Decree-Law No 133 of 12 September 2014, said unblock Italy, a cut of more than 11,757 million euros has been included from the Fund for interventions in favour of the increase of youth employment. It is contained in a covert way in the paragraph of an article of the decree-law unlocks Italy, therefore a petty move, which in reality goes to subtract resources precisely that sector, and that population group that most need it; not to mention all the resources that are wasted in a thousand other ways. In the face of all this, then, we continue to say enough with the fictions, the proclamations and the announcements, but we really start to take care of what the country needs, we listen to the voice and the cry of alarm that come from the world of businesses and our fellow citizens and we put in place real measures, because on this we are. And instead, we continue to witness, month after month, simply a stage performance put on the field by Renzi, who hides and conceals the reality to his fellow citizens. So you can't go on, and we'll always do the barricades on this one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u25	President. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the subject should have been work, the problem par excellence, I would say, on the contrary, the problem among the problems in Italy. Instead, we will discuss the performance anxiety of President Renzi, who must run not to do, but to say and tweet the famous titles of effect: he is really content with little, our President, and he focuses everything on the flaunting of an authority without authority. Otherwise, it doesn't explain. This delegation law could have been the best product of this Government, but I confess that this transition to trust has spoiled all my best will: this Government takes away the patience of the Saints. Honestly, I do not understand why, because here, my lords, we will all win or we will all succumb, and Germany, which has so far made the "sgargiulla" in Europe and is beginning to suffer from the crisis of the last of the class, is an emblematic example. Work is done with workers and employers, on the same level, without populism, without pseudo-ideology and without cheating. I liked the delegation of the law. I am not among those who accuse the thermometer of being the cause of the fever, on the contrary, I see in the delegation a necessary premise, as a proper cure, a good method and a good organization save the sick patient. We have unemployment of 12.3% and between 15 and 24 years of age one in two is unemployed (so 44.2% of them), with an increase of 3.6% compared to last year. The economy is still, GDP, down, is contracting 0.3% and the expectation is only a 0.6 percent positive sign in 2015. The problem is and does not create the delegation, but let's look at all the limits. First of all, there is an excessive generality, which is perhaps the only real problem, a bit like one saying to me: I guarantee you breakfast, lunch and dinner tomorrow, but the menu is a surprise and it is not necessarily to your liking. I don't claim to know the chef's secrets or calories, but at least the shopping list. Here we have moved from the White Paper to the delegation in white: this excessive genericity refers everything to the legislative decrees, and there we will see the Government how it will intervene (and probably fall the donkey). The thing that hurts me most is this prejudice of the Government towards Parliament and ours towards you, because anyway you continue to feed it with this way of doing and with this lack of listening, canceling the debate. There is talk of labour reform and active policies with invariance of expenditure, with a National Employment Agency. I agree: in my opinion, you don't always have to put money to do things, but sometimes you can also reorganize; but I wonder if you will be able to do it, you who have filled carriages and carriages to guarantee and support your chairs and steering booths. Who will you displease? Who are you gonna send away? As you can see, I am not an author of Article 18, which is a mockery and is no longer suitable for the times. I am of the opinion that, even in the public administration, there must be extreme mobility. I would no longer like to hear the phrase in the public administration: "This is not my responsibility, for the simple fact that, in my opinion, every work has its dignity, if well done. Hence, the speech of mansion is also a cultural prejudice. However, we must realize that, as it is set, we risk creating the usual fairy tale that yesterday illuses you, which today illudes me - remembering the words of the poet D'Annunzio - and then to find ourselves in nothing de facto, in a greater crisis, with unemployment that does not fall to the figure that Renzi expects. I hope so, and indeed we must all hope for it, but I doubt it and the doubts come from this very appellation of confidence, which is indeed a very serious fact. We had to make a cultural evolution that had to be allowed in this Parliament. In fact, we have passed since the 1970s since the approval of the Workers' Statute, which has been fundamental in Italian labour law because it has led us to be the seventh world economic power, to a world that no longer guarantees us that situation. So, I favorably saw the permanent contract to increasing protections because it is a common sense prediction. I can't afford a Ferrari when I don't even have the fuel for a 500. Then we note that reforms are not done with dreams, but with ideals, respect and principles, so as to ensure that everyone does not go on foot. Today we have gone from working to health, as Stellman wrote in the 1970s, to not working is bad for health, it kills. We must therefore guarantee the work, because it is the principle on which our Constitution is based. Be careful: I say work and not income. On the contrary, you have made a policy - and this is also seen in this delegation law - more charitable than active policy-oriented. According to Eurostat data, an unemployed person in Italy has 74 euros against 1,500 euros a year for a French unemployed person and 1,700 euros for a German unemployed person. Of course we are much more numerous, but the serious thing is how we share them: in 2013, out of 30 billion euros allocated, 20 went to unemployment treatment and only 6 billion in reductions or incentives to companies. I would say that we must start from work, from job creation. First of all, we must give the tools to companies: a sustainable labour cost, efficient infrastructure, broadband, a cost of competitive energy, a country free from corruption at all levels, fast times for justice, a tough fight against mafias, a simpler, more organic and more functional labour law for both foreign and Italian entrepreneurs. The six types of work contract with apprenticeships 1, apprenticeship 2 and apprenticeship 3 are improbable, which makes no sense. We must protect the worker and not the job at all costs, when it is in fact non-existent. I am referring to companies that have been in the Social Security Fund for 10 or 20 years. The unemployed worker for ten or twenty years loses his status as a worker. And then we have to realize that the problem is not only of workers, but also of employers. As Senator Biinella recalled before, we have suicide data among entrepreneurs that we have never recorded in the past. Just overcome the dichotomy between bad enterprise and good worker and put them on the same level. Let us realize that work is not only a duty and a right, but also a value to invest in, a job to better meet secondary needs. If the right to the house is satisfied with the recovery of the millions of cubic meters unused, instead of making useless speculation on green spaces, perhaps at prices calmed with a zero-impact green building, I solved the problem of the house: I can charge 100 or 200 euros of rent to the State or to a public or private management company and therefore invest in the job, create employment. Or in the field of public transport, we could promote the efficiency and fiscal promotion of car pooling and electric transport: I do not need the car or I need one to family and not three and, therefore, lower expenses. It follows that I can create forms of temporary accessory work: minijob on the German model, 500-600 euros per month, with affordable and affordable social security costs. These are just two suggestions about home and transport, but you could get to the parcel work: I need to perform for 6-7-15 days, sending an SMS to the INPS with an app, I transfer the credit to the work account of the provider who receives at the end of the month a salary supplemented by the State up to a variable amount depending on the needs of his or her family. Clearly the formula must be rewarded with a tax deduction or deduction against those who use these innovative forms that determine the emergence of black work and the elasticity of the job market. However, the solution can only be the efficiency of the work-welfare system -training and the cost of public administration. This is the only viable recipe: the primary needs must be administered by the community, everything else must be left to free initiative. I, however, am afraid because you will speculate on speculation, so I will find myself in the situation where you will not invest as the enterprise and the economy itself ask us. Today, in fact, we have to think of an enterprise that does ethical certification, social accountability, that makes integrated security system (OHSAS 18001). Today, an enterprise that comes out of these parameters, which are supported by the SAI, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the UN, cannot be competitive. Then I will have to invest in the quality of work, because the efficiency of a company lies also in the motivation of the worker, in the passion and in the commitment to a job that is felt as its own and for which there is also economic gratification (in this regard I would have liked stakes), but above all it must give the opportunity of growth and to build a different future; instead, put so, it becomes almost a caricature. In conclusion, we do not get to the paradoxical situation where, instead of investing in a doctor, in an orthopedic format, we say: today I need someone who gives me a hip, tomorrow someone who gives me a shoulder. We invest so that the worker can start again to know how to do. Let's start at school and give models. Sure, it's gonna be a little hard. Do we want to give some suggestions, Minister Poletti, on how to make a career through cooperatives or on certain career shortenings of people who have never worked, but have found preferential ways to arrive? Otherwise, let us do this in this House: one square metre each, let us go and fix the stony stones of Rome and perhaps give a concrete example of how work can be done and how it can be done; otherwise, we will give reason to those who support how in the tasks we can grow and produce something useful for the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ichino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u27	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u28	Madam President, in an article on the FIAT of some time ago Adriano Sofri de "La Repubblica" pointed out one of the many intolerable paradoxes of our time: while the Chinese workers, with the strikes of the Honda or the Taiwanese Foxconn (and its dramatic suicides), claimed lower wages and less infamous working conditions, meanwhile the Western workers were gradually becoming more Chinese. This trial did not stop at all. On the other hand, it is continuing inexorably, especially in Italy, and not only concerns workers, but it is spreading as an epidemic to all types of work; an epidemic that I would call hemorrhagic, as and more of the Ebola virus. No day goes by without tragedies: one suicide every two and a half days. In 2013, a total of 149 people took their lives for economic reasons, according to data released in March by Link Lab, the socio-economic research laboratory of the University of Studies Link Campus University that has been studying the phenomenon for more than two years. And beware that about one in two suicides is entrepreneur: 68 cases in 2013, 49 in 2012. But compared to 2012 the number of victims among the unemployed is increasing: 58, in fact, suicides among the unemployed, number that is more than doubled compared to 2012, when the episodes recorded were 28. In 19 cases you have reached the extreme gesture for unpaid wages. The phenomenon knows no geographical differences. In 2012 the highest number of suicides for economic reasons was in the regions of the North-East, a geographical area with higher suicide rates among entrepreneurs due to higher industrial density. The overall analysis of the year 2013 underlines how the phenomenon has been unified at a territorial level, affecting with the same force all the geographical areas of our Country. Even in the Mezzogiorno, where the suicide rate for economic crisis has always been historically lower than the national average, there has been an alarming increase: 13 overall cases of the year 2012 compared to 29 in 2013. Also in 2013 the economic crisis, understood as a lack of money or as an unsacrifice debt situation, is the main motivation of the gesture. The loss of employment continues to represent the second cause of suicide, not to mention the attempted suicides, of which almost doubled the number compared to 2012: in fact 89 people tried to take their lives in 2013 for reasons related to the economic crisis, with an increase recorded in the southern regions. Yet, for the Renzi Government, the workers rise to scapegoat of the system. Eliminating their rights - our rights - seems to be the algorithm for restarting the world of work. Strange cure, the one that instead of eradicating the disease thinks it aggravates the conditions of the sick, as if the very fact of existence made them accomplices of the epidemic. Yet this downward game on rights has been going on for some time immemorial in our country: the various governments have used crises such as that of Fiat as a pretext for the abolition of national contracts, the liquidation of the guarantees of the Constitution, the commodification of people. Not to mention Alitalia: by engaging with shareholders to open a shield to litigation and with banks for the conversion of debt into shares, the Government has created all the conditions for the risk-free investment of Etihad, downloading the costs to the skin of more than two thousand workers and their families, which has not happened even in the dramatic FIAT affair. Yet the Etihad plan tracks for Alitalia a five-star carrier future and forecasts an increase in revenues of almost 10 percent by 2017. For Alitalia, as for many other companies in Italy, there is not so much a problem of costs, rather of revenues. The main actions on medium- to long-term work should go through conversion and relocation processes. Today's worrying numbers on the redundancies of companies too often are the result of the destructuring of some fundamental sectors, inappropriate managerial choices and, above all, the absence of an industrial investment policy plan in the most strategic sectors for the country: it is inevitable that all this will have catastrophic consequences for the future of the workers. This hemorrhage is subtracting further growth prospects from the country, which have already been severely compromised. Where are the investments? What industrial policy does the Renzi Government want to pursue as it unloads the crisis on workers? I understand then Senator Sacconi, shadow minister of this Government on the themes of work, to have confidence in this coalition, when he speaks of the happy anomaly that would bring together different cultures and policies, which serve the nation for a new season of human development. What kind of development is unemployment facing with new tools to dismiss against every rule, not only of law, but even of common sense? What places at the centre of the system the withdrawal of rights and the ideology of precariousness, further lowering the quality of the little work left in this country? What mysterious magic formula links the subtraction of rights to the multiplication of labour? I do not doubt - of course - that the labour market is at the forefront of the considerations for Italy of the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Central Bank and the European Commission. It is, however, a contradiction in terms of wanting to transform the Workers' Statute into a new simplified single text; nor can we tolerate that, on a vital issue such as that of work, the spectre of yet another decree-law is stirred up once again. That's what happens. We should also remind the President-in-Office of the Council of one thing. When he claims to focus on the model of work in Germany, he forgot to tell journalists the truth, that is, that this model will be net of all the safeguards there are. He has therefore forgotten to say a fundamental step. As with the Constitution and the electoral law, this game is really untransparent and coherent. This sort of counter-reform of work provides, in fact, the cancellation of the Integration Fund by way of derogation and of the mobility allowance, with the only forecast of a grant lasting 12 months. We are therefore talking about the total absence of concrete social shock absorbers and income support instruments, the definitive breakdown of Article 18 of professional demise, as well as the very serious and extreme inadequacy of the Government to solve the real problems of the country. What underlies the reform is the absolute absence of appropriations to implement it and to cover expenditure. For all these incredible and intolerable attacks on the right to work, we of the Left Ecology and Freedom, in addition to having put the preliminary question of unconstitutionality, have withdrawn most of the amendments, precisely to remove any alibi. However, we have called for a real debate on the remaining amendments (a few, but of substance) and not for the arm-arm that characterizes this legislature on fundamental and structural issues. In fact, we want to ask concrete questions: to reduce the types of contract, having as the main reference the contract of employment indefinitely, that must remain the form of ordinary regulation of professional relations and no longer a very rare exception; to abolish the escalating scale of protections, because the rights do not acquire in relation to the seniority of service (a right or there is, or there is not); to limit in a strict way the periods without guarantees; to admit changes of job only to equal wages and - above all - to restore Article 18, as revised by the law 20 May 1970, n. 300, extending it to the enterprises of any dimension and productive field and abolishing, therefore, Article 8 of Decree-Law 13 August 2011, n. 138 (in the matter of support to the company and territorial bargaining) and also the norms on the fixed-term work approved with Decree-Law 20 March 2014, n. 34. The Government, especially on Article 18, has signed a white delegation to work, dotted with pyrotechnic games, since some of the changes planned have been learned from newspapers and not in the Commission or in the classrooms, from various statements by Senators Ichino and Sacconi, Minister Alfano and the President of the Council. I would like to reiterate, more than ever before, the need for a real debate on this reform which will restore Parliament's leading role on a sacred issue such as work and employment. In short, it must not be explained that resisting today means realizing that we are surrounded by scandalous things that must be fought vigorously; it means refusing to let go of a situation that could be accepted as unfortunately definitive, so what we will begin is an action of resistance to regression that this reform wants to sanction, at least reducing the damage as much as possible. SEL's senators have long been denouncing this situation, long before the so-called jobs act arrived, with our activities alongside the territories and the increasingly widespread and frequent protests of the workers, but above all we are highlighting all the limits of the policies for the work promised by the current and also by previous governments: the instruments of one-off tax incentives, reduction of the cost of labour, symbolic measures that only touch the drama of the problem. I believe that in this sense all of this cannot be without the most far-sighted objective: the reversal of course compared to the ongoing dismantling of our economic system in order to stop the otherwise unstoppable decline of Telecom as of Alitalia, and the important induced effect that affects small and medium-sized enterprises to which we add the serious delay of Italy in strategic sectors such as fibre optics. Telecom, in particular, is a dramatic example of what is happening to our industrial system. For this we must thank the disastrous management by jackals of high finance, a society that boasted thriving profits, but also the inability of political forces that have governed and that govern this country, to trace appropriate industrial policies. The result is always the same: yet another bloodbath to the detriment of the employees, with Telecom, once without financial problems, that today finds itself with more than 30 billion debt and that continues to lose pieces of quality and therefore, to dequalify itself, continuing the sad path undertaken with all the sales resulting from the savage privatization. From 1997 to 2012 the privatisation process has only expropriated the state's coffers, in addition to the pockets of hundreds of thousands of workers and workers and millions of users, without even the counterpart of a satisfactory network infrastructure. What margins remain to safeguard workers? Who benefits from this policy? We pay a high price for the failure of the network which will inevitably end up in foreign hands as fundamental to guarantee free competition from the market, better prices and services. That is why I really wonder: in Parliament we have tabled a resolution asking the Government to propose the introduction of a continental system of guaranteed minimum income, co-financed by the European States, recalling that on 21 October 2010, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on minimum income in the fight against poverty and the promotion of an inclusive society in Europe. We are convinced that, in implementing the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union - the Charter of Nice - minimum income is a fundamental social right, intended to serve as an instrument to protect the dignity of the person and his/her ability to participate fully in social, cultural and political life. It is well known that in many European countries, when you lose your job, you have access to unemployment benefits. In Italy, only 17.2% of the unemployed manage to do so against 94.7 in the Netherlands and 91.8 in Belgium. We also know that when this type of measure ends we can also have economic support such as guaranteed minimum income and it is not symbolic support because the average amount is about EUR 600 per month in Belgium and EUR 700 in Austria. It is also known that, in addition to financial support, our people in need can count on access to home, transport, culture and family support measures. Our proposal for a law, establishing the minimum guaranteed income, is based on the law n. 4 of 2009 of the Lazio Region that, although only experimentally, introduced a measure of income guaranteed by the highly innovative characteristics on the territory. Modelled on income protection schemes in most European countries, it provides support for the unemployed, precariously employed or seeking first employment of 600 euros per month, as well as integration into goods and services charged to the Regions. Many of the proposals, you know, we didn't make them up: they are in the programme that we presented with the Democratic Party and on which we asked for the votes for the last elections, the ones that brought us here, in this Parliament, in this Senate. We're there: we're not veteran, we're consistent. For far too long our country has been waiting for the dramatic shortcomings of a social protection system that is incapable of offering adequate guarantees to those most exposed to the risks of social exclusion: young people, women, workers and precarious workers. The institution of citizenship income could produce a reversal of trend, provided that it is parallel to a real reform of our development system and a broad-based work strategy that allows to relocate the working energies to the highest levels of the production chain and to the most refined ones from the technological point of view with the innovation and sustainability of the networks (transport, energy, digitalization of the country). That is, I believe that, at times, there is a subtle ambiguity, on the other hand, where the aim is to strike at the heart the dignity of the workers, with the prospect of demands and even systems of video surveillance. Paradoxically, indignation in this country is also obnoxious and incomprehensible: if one reacts harshly to the intercepts of politicians, one remains indifferent to the intercepts proposed for workers. On the law of resignation in white, for example, I forgot that this decree you do with those who killed that law first. In the first acts of the Berlusconi government had immediately abolished it, then it was reapproved in the House and massacred in the Senate Commission. The class struggle, which was said to have been overcome, is well resumed. Unfortunately, she is led only by strong powers against the weak, who today risk not only being the part that succumbs but being unarmed twice, without political references in a situation of total loneliness. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a partisan. Among the strong and the weak I am always on the one hand, on the side of the weak; and it is not a matter of having little sense of the institutions; it is exactly the opposite; together with the workers their representatives are also humiliated, who are not involved in the debate on the reform, because they belong to one of the few institutions, such as that of the union, not reformable by decree. But then he dialogues only with the accommodating ones, who get agitated in the talk shows and then sign everything I'll settle for it. What they don't know, what they don't know, what they won't tell them, that they'll be told at a later stage. Meanwhile, the situation falls: we are all without distinction forced to pursue work in the precarious, no one excluded from this tragedy. Do not think that you are immune to this. Political leaders, who are subject to the electoral downfalls, may also find themselves in the future in the situation of having to find employment. We are all, day after day, a little less citizens of this country. To date, atypical contracts have not produced a single additional place. Do we want to understand that? They have made a very strong contribution to the weakening of stable work, they have been the much-warned call for any investors. Politics is absolutely responsible for this. It is perhaps this scenario that Renzi has in mind, when he repeats that he wants to transform Italy to bring it up to date with global competition: the country continues to ask for acts of faith, in the almost millennial perspective of the thousand days. What confidence can we place in a government that levels down the differences between workers, in fact institutionalizing the precariousness and the absence of rights? The President of the Council himself, a guest of Michele Santoro, reiterated this concept: there is no entrepreneur who said that Article 18 is a problem for him. It is only a problem of the media debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Cervellini. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Finally, in conclusion, I do not hide a great embarrassment and discomfort. By means of the press, the Government announces confidence; it does not inform the Presidency of this House of anything, let alone the text and, above all, any changes it will contain. I have recently met so many desperate people, who were previously busy and satisfied with their work and who are now trying to carry on in total precariousness. I believe that on this we should determine a battle, a fight and a reduction of the damage. Above all, I really ask you not to make jokes about what will happen in the coming months and about the demonstrations called by the CGIL; jokes about participation are absolutely out of place; to strike and manifest you will miss the days of every worker and worker. Actually the jokes are out of place and I ask you not to laugh and not to make jokes, because unfortunately there is nothing to laugh about. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u29	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u30	I would ask you to respect the five-minute time, because, as you know, for various reasons, you no longer have the power to intervene. AIROLA (M5S). The delegation law is important!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u31	Madam President, apart from the fact that, as far as we know, the time allocated to us is quite different, but perhaps there has been a misunderstanding. In this brief speech - and I think five minutes are enough - it is to denounce what is contained in this act and denounce the fact that calling labour reform such an act is like talking about reform of justice and going to celebrate marriages before civil state officials. We are really faced with a government made of proclamations, marked by those who try to make politics simply by making the tribune or the foreman. My colleague Mr Candiani also mentioned this: we must also learn to say that politics is perhaps a real profession and we must also learn to do so. Statists are not born and those who are not must also have the humility to resign themselves not to do so. We in the North League want to denounce, as we have done in all our speeches, the fact that calling a reform jobs act seems almost to give more redundancy and value to what is worthless; calling reform an intervention like this for us means absolutely nothing. The real problems of work, the problems of Italy certainly do not resolve with these kinds of interventions that we do not even know what they are actually because the famous maxi amendment remains only in the dark rooms and is certainly not made available to the opposition in order to possibly protest, as we are doing now. To speak of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute or of important discussions that have fueled the classrooms, given the possibility to many to write books, and to make ideological issues of it perhaps becomes sterile nowadays. From 2008 to 2013 there were more than one million individual and collective redundancies; if we look at those who have been reinstated in the workplace or the compensation for the damage, there are about 2,500. So what are we talking about? We really need to understand what the labour market means in Italy. We are talking about more than 44% of youth unemployment; we are talking about absolutely serious and very serious problems, which must be solved by structural and serious reforms, by real labour policies, by real economic policies and not by spot interventions that do nothing but fill the mouth of a word to try to regain consensus. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I believe that all citizens will realize this, as they have realized with the Fornero law what they have done. The solution is not easy and must be tackled with great seriousness, but the seriousness is that of this Government, which in the face of a problem of serious, contingent and dramatic work - if people do not work, gentlemen, Italy does not go ahead - allocates 130 million in the decree stages to refinance the operation "Mare nostrum". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This money does not solve the problems of Italy, young people and work, but feeds a problem that has seen Italy left alone. The present government does not even have the strength and courage to say that this is a European problem and not Italian or not only Italian. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] Let's think about the seriousness of the decision to spend 10 million a month to tackle the problem of immigration with the result of seeing the police barracks full of refugees, taking the task of protecting the territory and security from the police itself. Let's get serious. It's time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is the result of a valuable intercourse between Parliament and the Government, which has enabled, thanks to the sense of responsibility of all the political forces present in the Commission for work and the frank and loyal cooperation between the members of it, to bring to the examination of the Senate Assembly a text of historical value. A special praise goes to President Maurizio Sacconi, who, as rapporteur for the measure, was able to give him force by assessing, in an open and available spirit, the changes proposed by the opposition, supporting some of them, which in fact have found the Commission's consent. In his capacity as President of the Commission, he has carried out a patient, tenacious and effective work of mediation and conduct of the work. And thank you, as well as to Mr Poletti, to the Undersecretary, Mr Bellanova, for the constant and valuable presence in the Commission, starting from the very first stage of investigation, supported by hearings of the parties concerned, until the conclusion of the examination. The Commission has done a very complex job. I would therefore like to join in the words of thanks from the President and rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, and I, too, would like to express my non-formal thanks to the Secretary of the Commission, Dr Abagnale, the Secretariat Office and the Study Service for their commitment and professionalism in supporting the Commission's work. I was talking about the complexity of the Commission's work in formal and informal fora. Just this intense work has specified and enriched the text originally proposed, introducing new guiding criteria or better specifying those already present, and thus outlining more effectively the tracks within which the Government will have to exercise the individual delegations. It will then be Parliament's task to assess the compliance of the delegated decrees with those principles and criteria. In this sense, I can anticipate that the examination of the Commission's work, also thanks to the insights already carried out at this stage, will also be in the watchful and attentive one. I do not want to dwell here on the individual changes that have been made, which have already been examined by the rapporteur and which are now being put back to the evaluation of the entire Senate Assembly. However, I would like to reiterate that with this draft law delegation we have written a historical page, which finally marks the exit of our country from the long 20th century and the view of the 21st century. It is in fact a text that will change the verse to a vision that for fifty years, except for short but intense brackets of reformism, has kept the Italian labour market glued to a policy of protection always and in any case of workers and of prejudice towards entrepreneurs. The whole of the Italian post-war period was influenced, more than elsewhere, by a political and social left who exercised a specific conditioning power on the regulation of work. Yet in Italy, and therefore in the country in which the union has played a leading role in the management of working relationships, phenomena of low employment, low wages, low productivity and low business size have been produced at the same time. To rebut this prejudice therefore means to give back due dignity to those who produce employment, do work and protect it, because they know the value of those who work. In this delegation, ladies and gentlemen, there are rules that ensure, on the one hand, more flexibility in working relations and on the other, more protection against workers; rules that will improve the protection against unemployment, which will update the rules of the labour relationship to our age of uncertainty, which will guarantee more rights to all and not only to some and, in any case, to a few, which will make the labour market fairer, but also leaner and able to absorb with speed the ever more unpredictable and sudden changes to which we have been confronted for almost a decade. And it is not just the infamous Article 4, which has the ambition to reform the Workers' Statute by rewriting it in a simpler way. The text which the Commission has laid down for this House also contains other aspects to which I would like to draw the attention of all of you. These include, first of all, the repositioning of the philosophy of the White Paper on Labour in Italy, signed by Marco Biagi and Maurizio Sacconi in 2001, according to which it is necessary to combine a more flexible regulation of the individual working relationship with a greater capacity of the educational system and the institutions of the labour market to make people continuously employable. In this context, it is necessary to be convinced that the rules to encourage employers must be simple, certain and certainly applied, in order to avoid errors of a past, even recent, such as an outgoing flexibility which, if put to the discretion of the magistrate, deprives the employers of the necessary certainties or even greater rigidity in entry, which in reality contracts the already active works. In this sense, the statements of the President-in-Office of the Council, who intends to reduce the margin of discretion of the judge and to provide certainty to the employer, appear to be fully acceptable. A second aspect that will have a major impact on the structure of the labour market is the extension and generalisation of the instruments for the integration of income on an insurance basis (ASPi and Cassa Integrazione), which are prepared in this measure and which will allow the overcoming of forms of support by way of derogation, which have also played a significant role in the years of the crisis, putting an end to the confused use of these instruments. Thirdly, the text marks the strengthening of the accompanying services of those seeking work, by competing with public and private operators, since they would be freely chosen by the citizen and paid as a result, i.e. when they achieve effective employment. The delegation referred to in Article 4, then, extends the possible introduction of the minimum hourly compensation, provided for in subordinate employment relationships, to co-ordinated and continuous collaboration relationships, limiting it to sectors not governed by collective agreements but above all, in introducing the contract without a time limit to increasing safeguards, opens to a new Workers' Statute. This delegation will allow the drafting of a simplified organic text of the disciplines of contractual typologies and working relationships and, therefore, the rewriting of that part of the Statute that does not concern the union rights, with particular attention to Article 4, Article 13 and Article 18 and, therefore, to the revision of the discipline of the tasks, which must contain the interest of the enterprise during the reorganization and the interest of the worker in the protection of the workplace and professionalism; to the review of the remote controls, which must take into account the technological evolution, the productive needs of the enterprise and the dignity and confidentiality of the worker; to the dismissal. The objective of the Government - they have reiterated in recent days both the same President of the Council and the president of the New Centrorightstra and minister of the inside Angelino Alfano - is to spur the use of the contract to indefinite time, on the one hand making it cost less than any other and on the other hand, eliminating those constraints and those uncertainties that until now have blocked the intentions to assume of entrepreneurs, Italian and international. This is a fundamental objective, which will finally allow the new departure of the labour market and the whole economy in our country. In this sense, it is good to clarify once and for all that labour reform makes the contract indefinitely more convenient only if it preludes to simple, certain and certainly applied rules. As President Sacconi rightly said in recent days, they are not acceptable pastrocles, fruit of contortionisms that displease everyone, reformists and conservatives. The entrepreneur asks to know with certainty what will happen in the event of a break in the relationship of trust with the collaborator; and to this request it is necessary that the legislator responds putting certain norms. On the basis of these considerations, I hope that this House will examine the text quickly and that a reform can be launched as soon as possible with a view to having a driving effect on the whole of our economy. In fact, I think it is worth pointing out, and at the same time reminding, that the main path to change is in constitutional reform, which brings work and training under the competence of the State, overcoming the current negative institutional segmentation of the subject between Provinces and Regions, which will have to accept, as proposed by this draft law delegation, mechanisms of convergence and control. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are asking us to overcome the purely ideological fences and to look at the needs of today. We MEPs have the task of collecting this request and of translating it with a sense of responsibility and courage into those new and courageous measures for growth and employment, aimed primarily and more effectively at young people, to whom President Napolitano also referred a few days ago. We will thus allow the country to leave behind corporatism and injustices, guarantees reserved for a few, lack of prospects for the new generations, looking with confidence on the future. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed of living in a country where our President-in-Office of the Council, your President-in-Office of the Council, lies shamelessly, and he has been doing so for months on all matters. But on that, President Zanda, he does it specifically. And what does it say? Article 18 applies to 4,000 workers and no more. Well, let's start talking about the subjects to which Article 18 applies, because they are the ones you are selling out. Let's take a figure that certainly comes from a very grilling organism: the study center of the CGIA of Mestre according to which Article 18 applies in Italy to two out of three workers. We're talking about about 8 million workers out of almost 12. To these workers you are subtracting not a gift graciously made by the masters, but conquests, which cost in this country tears and blood. Article 18 has not existed for sixty years; it is the result of the battles of the Sixties, cost you dead in this country. And you're selling them out. To go where? What model does Renzi have in mind, since he keeps lying? Is it Tunisia and Morocco? Those are the workers' protections and the labour market to which it addresses. We should compete with those countries instead of looking at Europe, as they say. Are we looking at Europe? We look at the poorest countries, where multinationals go to plunder the only wealth these countries have: their arms, the workforce. They want to do it here in Italy too and they want to do it with you of the Democratic Party that after voting this infamous norm you can sit there, with the party of the masters. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] This is what they want to do: the party of the masters. And how do they want to do that? They're growing in three years. Well, this is another of the dialectical games that has accustomed us to politics in recent years. They want to make war and call it a mission of peace; it is no longer war. People in this country are desperate because they are out of the real protected labour market; they are precarious and reduced to slavery, they want an indefinite contract. Let's give it to him, but empty of content. What is an indefinite contract without protection? It's nothing but exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is what you want to give our young people and our workers: despair and exploitation. They will be happy and will have a nice permanent contract that is worth nothing, that cannot be protected. Shall we talk about demise? In this country we have fought civilizations. I remember that in recent years there have been battles on a huge problem in the world of work, which is called mobbing. Did you forget that? Do you know what mobbing is? And now we're talking about law enforcement? Well, so there will be no more problem of mobbing: the worker will be completely at the mercy of anyone who intends to demand it, to reduce his financial treatment and to send him to do more than what he was hired for! And who's gonna pay this bill first? You know it: it will be the workers, the women employed in the world of work! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Barozzino.]] On these you are throwing the cross, following a man who has never worked in his life, one day, if not under his father's employ, with a false contract to cheat the State! [[Extended applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups.]] TAVERNA (M5S). Bravo, Bravo! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Do you know when workers need protection? In these moments; certainly not when the economy is good because there is no need for protection: when there is the sun nobody needs the umbrella; now it does not rain, but hail on the workers of this country, and you want to leave them defenceless! [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-MovX and Senator Barozzino groups.]] Taverna (M5S) And good companions! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Good comrades! [[Call the president back.]] TAVERNA (M5S). But, President, do we tell them "compañeros" and offend themselves? GIARRUSSO (M5S). Do you want to know what work is in this country? I invite you to read "the Espresso" - known communist newspaper or grill, define it yourself - and in particular an article of 15 September 2014, dedicated to a survey of the University of Palermo on the condition of agricultural workers in Sicily, who are in slavery conditions, and the treatment reserved for Romanian women in our country: shame to think of putting 8 million people in the same conditions! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u37	Madam President, we have arrived at the final stage of the draft delegation law, which was launched in the Commission in April. I would like to draw your attention to the value of the reforms and therefore to the need for reforms for Europe, not only because the time is very difficult economically, but because of the value of the reforms themselves. Reforming a system presupposes ears and eyes attentive to reality in order to understand it, intercept it and make it its own, approaching it without preconceived categories or ideologies. At the same time it is necessary to start from reality in order to draw new models, new policies and new visions. Reforming means accepting changes and building solutions for the present and the future, based on the real needs and needs of people and society. It is our job in this House, Madam President, to approve the draft law on delegation at work. When we get closer to the reality of work, we realize that it is composed of three moments: for integration into the world of work, work and job loss. These three moments have changed structurally because the economic, social and political system of reference has changed. The first fundamental element is that you enter the world of late work, with discontinuous modes, and you live longer; the second is that there is no trade, but a universe of jobs; the third is that no enterprise, in the last thirty years, has remained equal to itself from an organizational, competitive and business point of view. In the face of these changes we can no longer reason for static labour processes: it is a challenge for us, for the union and for the organization of businesses. The best way to protect work and maintain employment is to build tools that meet different needs: this is the delegation with the enlargement of social shock absorbers, the establishment of the Employment Agency, active labour policies and support for motherhood and reconciliation between work and family. These days there has been a lot of talk about rights, but I think - and I also say this to my political side - that the time has come to build a new season of rights, linked to a new season of duties and a common ethic of work between businesses, workers and workers. I am referring to the right to support income, for periods of non-employment, but related to the duty of workers and workers to make themselves available for a new supply of employment and training. I am also referring to the right to guidance and continuing training, but also to the right to have the same quality of work services throughout the country. I am also referring to the right to retraining because many innovations are going through work, starting with digitalisation. It's not like you're working in series A and B. This is the new scaffolding of rights that we must build. On the other hand, it is the duty of companies to take up corporate social responsibility and that is why the Workers' Statute must be adapted to new organisational and technological requirements. It's in the proxy. This must be reinforced with reference to second-level national bargaining, because that is where the parties discuss innovation and change. With the rules provided by this delegation never again a girl and a boy will have to feel lonely in the search for work. A free and open society must guarantee equal opportunities for access to work and - I would like to say to the opposition - not only for those who have family and family networks. Is this building justice? Is this reduction in rights? On this should be built merit. Never again, with this delegation, those who lose work at fifty years will remain without the possibility of being inserted and relocated to work and maybe without income support because they have VAT. Minister, the delegation goes to the enlargement of social shock absorbers, but we must move towards the universalisation of rights and also the allocation of resources must support this policy. Never again to take care of the unemployed and the unemployed. He wrote Ezio Tarantelli an article, in 1985, "Unoccupied for eternity?" and declined his proposals, paying with his life the courage of his ideas. The path we have taken in recent months in the Commission has been a positive one, ladies and gentlemen. This has been mentioned by many of my colleagues and by the rapporteur himself, with the constructive cooperation of oppositions, especially in the area of labour policies. But there's more to me. There are issues that need to be addressed in order to solve problems of Italian structural weakness that have no political color, such as the issue of simplifications (Article 3 of the delegation). Simplification is not part of a programme. It is a broad reminder, especially in times of economic difficulties, when reducing the complexity of bureaucratic snares is important for businesses in general, for small companies in particular and for many of us in our daily lives. 12:31 a.m. (Followed by the speaker). With unemployment of 12.3%, youth at 44.2, with the increasingly frequent corporate crises, with the expulsion of over fifty years, work in Italy cannot still be so divisive and imbued with ideology. Too much attention - in my opinion - and perhaps too much in recent weeks, of public opinion on Article 18. The delegation is much more than that. Of course, by introducing a contract of increasing protection, it means intervening on the rules of Article 18. But the spirit of the delegation has always been to make the contract indefinitely as the common form of contract of employment, also clearing all those different types that produce precariousness. The Commission's text must be strengthened in this respect. I agree with those who have said that in this House. In order to facilitate employment and permanent contracts, contribution and tax incentives are needed, reordering and rationalising existing ones, as required by the delegation. We need certainty and stability in the rules on dismissals for entrepreneurs. If Law No 92 has produced too much litigation, this must be reviewed. That's what we're talking about. Delegation is not a final measure. There will be implementing decrees. So many issues will be resolved. Of course, the delegation alone cannot relaunch the work in Italy. We need a package of reforms such as those already put in place by the Renzi Government, from public administration to justice, attention to European resources, the promotion of Made in Italy, actions to encourage investment. There is also a serious need to address the issue of low productivity in the country, certainly together with the unions, giving space to decentralised bargaining. I should like to conclude, Minister: we Members of Parliament are delegation of the legislative function to the Government. Parliament will have the opportunity to give an opinion on the delegated decrees. The Italian legislative history is full of unimplemented delegations and failed reforms. This is the good time. We trust that this will be the right time to implement structural and system reform. We have faith in you and your government as citizens and citizens will have to have confidence in Parliament, in what we are approving today, because we have real working conditions at home. It's our kids' and our kids'. To them a policy that builds the future must look. [[Applause from Senator Sacconi's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u38	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate has been very broad, even if it has been characterised by many prejudices, some of which are aimed at overestimating the negative potential of the provisions that will be specified by the decrees delegated in relation to rights and safeguards at work; others are aimed at underestimating the positive potential that this reform will generate. I cannot fail to note the significant absence in the debate of an important party, Forza Italia, of which no exponent has spoken. I hope that this silence will prelude to a constructive attitude and not a distracted consideration of what we are doing. I would also like to highlight the many proud claims of the method and content of reformist tradition by many senators and many senators, particularly those senators and senators who belong to the Commission work. I quote for everyone the Senator Parente, who intervened earlier. The reformisms, that of Senator Parente and Senator Pagano but as I said also that of many others have met emblematically in this measure, that we hope can determine more work and better work in a context of growth of our real economy. I will make very few comments, which I refer in particular to the Government, aimed at strengthening that conjugation of flexibility and security that has always been the ambition of the reforms of these years, even of governments supported by majorities of different sign. In this context, I place my hope that every economy that can be found in the exercise of the delegation will be destined to strengthen the social shock absorbers, also hoping that the law of stability, as has been observed several times, can allocate additional resources dedicated in a particular way to the universalization of subsidies, even on an insurance basis. Moreover, I place my hope that a robust convergence of the active policies of the Regions can be produced, which today are characterized by the very strong dispersion and incongruity of the interventions. However, I hope that the constitutional reform, now under consideration by the House, can draw a federalism with variable geometry, made up of autonomous regions or provinces, such as the one deserving of Bolzano, able to confirm and consolidate powers also with reference to active labour policies, while I hope that the primary competence in the field of work and training can return to the State, after the disastrous experiences of most of the national territory. I believe it is necessary to accept the call from many speakers to promote the contract without a time limit, both with the reduction of direct and indirect burdens on work and with simple and certain rules, particularly relating to the matter of dismissals, so that there is not, once again, the surrender of discretionary power to the judge, with the effect of reducing the propensity to assume that we want to encourage, especially when it is addressed to the contract without a time limit. The necessary revision of contractual typologies - I myself wished in the report to overcome the strange experience of co-ordinated and continuous collaborations - must also be combined with the possibility of changing the regulation of those that will survive so that it is simpler and more certain. The market drinks, uses, what is characterized by simple regulation, certain and certainly applied by the interpreters, inspection functions as well as by the jurisprudential one. The needs of businesses must be combined with those of the worker in terms of the protection of dignity and professionalism. This applies in particular to Articles 4 and 13 of the Staff Regulations (Article 18 of the Staff Regulations) which we said earlier. As regards tasks in particular, it is good that, alongside certain rules on how to adapt tasks to productive reorganisations, there is recognition of the ability of company bargaining to carry out further ways in which the employer and the worker adapt to each other in relation to common objectives. Senator Berger and a few years ago also Senator Parente and many others have indicated the potential of proximity bargaining, which in other places and with other instruments we will have the duty to promote, the more by bringing back also to adequate incentive that salary that is decided in the context of a negotiation that we could define in itself virtuous, because it allows to link the income to the greater productivity and thus allows to increase the income where the conditions of enterprise allow it, avoiding that flattening that has often mortified the incomes on the basis of invasive centralized bargaining. Finally (why not?) an emphasis on greater popularity of vouchers. I said in the report that we have to worry about the areas of the country and the sectors in which vouchers are not used, rather than the places where they are used, because few are still the places of use, very complicated the modalities and it is good that the greater diffusion is combined with greater traceability, so as to monitor the evolution of those working relationships, those performances so simply defined. I should like to express my special thanks to Mr Spilabotte, the Vice-President of the Commission, who has followed the whole debate as continuously as I have. I appreciate your speech. Now our task is to do it quickly and well. Soon because, insofar as we are convinced of the need for these rules, we must do very quickly to approve the delegation and do very soon to allow Parliament to examine those delegated decrees in which, as always in detail, angels and demons will certainly be concealed. I trust, however, that the angels will be present in the renewal of labour legislation that we want to correspond to the extraordinary changes that we are experiencing in operation, as I said, of more and better jobs, as they say in Europe: more work and better work for all. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Marcucci and Mauro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u40	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you all for the work you have done and for the debate. I have listened to many of your speeches and found suggestions, suggestions and criticisms, some right and others that I absolutely do not feel like sharing. I found much of our country's feeling and found attitudes far from the substance of the delegation. I have heard legitimate criticism, but they were not talking and they are not talking about the delegation we are discussing. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I will therefore try to reflect with you and to summarize what is the deep sense of what we want to do. On the other hand, this debate has developed on the text dismissed by the Senate's work committee, which I would particularly like to thank because the Commission's work has improved the text that was presented. There are important elements, it would suffice to reflect on the theme of expansive solidarity, that is, the possibility of distributing work among several workers, or of thinking about the subject, which has been introduced, of making the best use of technological innovations and the possibility of using computer systems to have the information necessary to manage the processes, or the possibility of exchanging or assigning holidays not enjoyed to a colleague: acts of solidarity and attention that must be taken and appreciated. I want to acknowledge this work and thank you for what you have done. The fundamental objectives set by the Government with this delegation are essentially the following. The first fundamental objective is to simplify and make certain rules, procedures and contracts, and to simplify controls. I think we are all aware of one fact: uncertainty is the poison that kills investment. This is therefore the first point on which we must work. Then there is a second point: extending the rights in the employment relationship through the introduction of the permanent contract to increasing safeguards and abolishing and reforming the contracts that are precarious. It is also intended to extend the shock absorbers by reforming them and universalizing the protections in unemployment. Promote active policies and build adequate instrumentation. Make active and conditional the use of all subsidies. Support parenthood and protect motherhood. Basically: we want to redesign regulatory infrastructure and operational tools to ensure that the priority of work becomes truly feasible. For the Italian Government it is absolutely central and priority the delegation of work in all its scope, not only Article 18, which certainly represents a significant part of it but which in our expectations is not, as might appear from the discussion of these weeks, a sort of alpha and omega of our reflection. I fully respect all the considerations on this subject. Perhaps I consider the expectations, both positive and negative, that are uploaded on this subject, which is certainly relevant but less decisive than one might think. [[Comments by Senators Marton and Santangelo.]] Unfortunately, the concentration of the discussion on this point has limited the analysis and evaluation of a text which, in my opinion, has very important contents and which, if fully realized, can radically modify the labour market in our country. To fully understand the sign and meaning of this measure it is not enough to have present and punctually list the very heavy, dramatic data of the state of employment and unemployment of our country, which we know very well. It is not enough to scroll through the European rankings and confirm that we are systematically in negative positions. It is not loudly screaming the numbers of the crisis that problems find solutions. Rather, we should ask ourselves, as a country, this question: how did we end up in this situation? [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Castaldi and Martelli.]] , Minister for Labour and Social Policy. How could this happen? SANTANGELO (M5S). Explain it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! You've already spoken. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. How could a country, which has great potentials that everyone recognizes, experience such a long and acute crisis? As often happens, there is no simple and unambiguous answer to this question, but an effort to identify the causes must certainly be made. We lost jobs because we lost businesses. We have lost companies because we have lost productivity and competitive capacity. We have lost competitive capacity because we have not invested in the basic levers: school and knowledge, research and innovation. We have favored and tolerated large and small incomes; we have not rewarded merit. We have developed an abnormal presence of the State and the institutions, rather than promoting and rewarding the commitment and responsibility of the citizens. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Comments from the M5S Group]] We let our country's justice system go down. At some point, even under the pressure of fear induced by the great epochal changes that have hit our country, we have chosen to defend ourselves. And defense, when it's okay, leaves things as they are; and standing still, in a running world, can only produce disastrous results. That is why we need a radical change that invests all the fields of our action. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] Those who criticize the government's choices do not grasp the dramatic gravity and urgency of acting to change this state of affairs, together and quickly. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u42	Senator Lezzi, shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u43	Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Such a radical change will not be possible if we do not face together the cultural nodes that this country has always carried. In our case, talking about work and enterprise, the unresolved node is still connected to an idea of the enterprise as, essentially, the place of the exploitation of the work and, consequently, a negative meaning that thinks that this is basically a necessary evil, which goes with great care monitored, controlled and surrounded by barbed wires normative. We must radically change our perspective: enterprise is a social infrastructure in which the different components of knowledge, labour and capital interact in order to produce new value. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi. Comments from the M5S Group.]] Consequently, the relationship between work and enterprise can no longer be interpreted only by the twentieth century conflict and contract. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Today work is something significantly different: it is intelligence, it is knowledge, it is responsibility, it is a creative contribution. [[Mr Boschi entered the Chamber. Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group.]] That is why we need new contracts and cooperation. We need cooperation and co-responsibility. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! You have to go outside! Twenty times she's come! Just asking for trust! Just for that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order! There is a speech by Minister Poletti. I would ask Mr Bottici and the M5S Group's Parent Company to speak; Senator Airola, please speak. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Someone accuses me of having a romantic and all good idea of the enterprise and accuses me of wanting to abolish contracts, which are the instrument that historically allowed... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u44	Colleagues, let the Minister continue in his speech. Nobody's bothered your surgeries. Let the Minister speak. Don't make me take action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u45	[[Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Petrocelli approaches the government's benches and gives coins to Minister Poletti.]] Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. As I said, it has historically allowed us to exercise a weight and gain decent living conditions. I've never supported and I don't support overcoming the... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u46	I note that the Parent Company is still Senator Petrocelli until 15. I correct Senator Airola's request for intervention, which he had communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u47	Excuse me, Minister Poletti, for a moment: either silence is established or we do not continue. Senator Petrocelli, can we please continue? [[Senator Petrocelli's comments. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's put on record a reminder of the order for Senator Petrocelli's Parent Company. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Please, Minister Poletti, you can continue. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. There is a challenge for work and there is a challenge for the enterprise. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u48	Quiet! Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. We want to keep defending what's there...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u49	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u50	Senator Santangelo wants to get out of the Chamber, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u51	SANTANGELO (M5S). As you say, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, as you say. If he keeps talking, he'll be out of the Chamber. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Santangelo]] You want to be a scapegoat? I see you're doing it with pleasure. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] So are you gonna let them talk or not? This is a Chamber where we can speak. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola! Please, Minister Poletti, proceed. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The logic of thinking that guides the delegation is to simplify and make sure and predictable the work path and the relationship between enterprise and work. We all believe that work is not built by decrees and laws but by growth. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] But growth is done with companies, if companies invest, and to do so they need a defined context. If we want Italy to become a friendly country of companies, capable of stimulating domestic investment... [[Ironic applause from Senator Lezzi. Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u52	Quiet! Senator Lezzi, I'm gonna call you back to order for the second time. I beg the Bottici commissioner to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u53	Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. For investors, the entrepreneur has as an essential function to predict, evaluate and act taking into account what it is... [[Senator Lezzi's protests. Some members of the M5S Group display a blank sheet.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u54	Please the assistants remove the signs that are displayed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u55	Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. To the entrepreneur we add to the uncertainty typical of one's function many other uncertainties that eventually discourage the investment and destroy the opportunity of work. So we want with the delegation simplicity and certainty. Montevecchi (M5S). It's not a sign! It's a white sheet!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u56	Senator Montevecchi, stop screaming, please. PETROCELLI (M5S). (Whisking the white sheet). It's the government delegation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Chief Petrocelli, I've already called you back to order. You can't even expose white papers. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] So, can we continue? I have called the Parent Company to order twice: if it fails to maintain the order of its Group, please anticipate what will happen on the 15th. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let us anticipate, President: this (Wasting the blank sheet) is the delegation to the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, can we please continue? [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I order the expulsion from the Chamber of the parent Petrocelli. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] I suspend the sitting pending the execution of the expulsion order. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 13.42 a.m.) Colleagues, given the time, the sitting is closed. [[Applause]] In view of the hours, the late-session speeches will take place at the end of the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-326.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.42 a.m.
