ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u3	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Education, University and Research, by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance and by the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification of Decree-Law No 3 of 23 January 2014 laying down temporary and urgent provisions for the extension of the Salary Automatisms of School Staff (1254).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u4	The next item is the question and questions. Question 3-00579, already 4-01194, on the destination and use of property confiscated from the Mafia will be taken first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u5	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Campanella brings to the attention of the Government the question of the destination and use of property confiscated from organised crime. In the strategy of attacking Mafia wealth, the role of the National Agency for seized and confiscated property becomes central, called upon to administer, according to dynamic criteria and profitability, the assets taken from criminal organisations in view of their definitive reuse for institutional purposes or social projects developed by local authorities and regions. The complexity of this mission does not escape, when we consider the large dimensions of the acquired assets. According to the current legislation, the Agency, after having implemented all the necessary initiatives to overcome any criticalities that hinder the destination of the goods, invites the territorial authorities in which the properties are located to show interest in their transfer for institutional or social purposes. Subsequently, the granting of goods to associations or communities is decided independently by the territorial body to which the property has been transferred, in compliance with the principles of transparency, advertising and equal treatment, and therefore non-discrimination. In the stages following the allocation, the Agency shall carry out a targeted monitoring activity to verify the effective use of the assets by the beneficiary local authorities. In the case of any established illegality and illegality in the allocation or use of goods, the Agency shall immediately start operations for the withdrawal of the assignment or destination. The same act of retrocession is laid down in the event that the local authority and recipient of the property has not provided within one year for the assignment of the property. Coming now to the profile of accessibility of data relating to confiscated property, I would point out that since the start of the operation of the Agency, in 2010, the publication of lists of assets subject to confiscation has been made through the database provided by the State Property Agency. At the moment, the project for the implementation of a system for the computerized and operational management of the procedures for the administration and destination of the seized and confiscated assets is being completed. Once started, this information system will ensure maximum publicity of the confiscated assets not yet assigned, making them accessible to rightholders. Moreover, the increase in staff assigned and the recent legislative changes introduced in the field of transparency - which also establish the publication of data relating to the process activity - will allow to publish more detailed lists of the goods themselves. These measures must be completed in order to resolve all the problems that adversely affect the process of managing assets and, in particular, buildings and companies, which are often objective in nature and independent of the Agency. In highlighting that to date no expressions of interest have been received from the building cooperatives constituted by the staff of the Armed Forces or the Police Forces, I assure you that procedures are being studied to ensure the advertising of sales resolutions, also in order to allow the exercise of the right of option guaranteed by the legislation itself. In conclusion, I would like to add that a job, prepared by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the ministries concerned, is in the right direction to draw up a process of reform of the Agency's functional and operational organisation, because it is a very effective instrument in combating mafias and organised crime. The police forces and the judiciary often have seizures, and then definitive confiscates, of illegally constituted assets and it is therefore necessary to define a legislative and regulatory system able to put to value and return to the communities and the legal economy those assets illegally accumulated, guaranteeing also the maximum economic and social productivity. Often, in fact, it happens that in the phases between the seizure and the final confiscation, those assets lose or those productive activities are completely cancelled, generating losses of wealth, job losses and loss of opportunity for their effective and legal reuse. I would also add that the goods seized and confiscated are often of various kinds, because there are situations of co-ownership, of reserved domains, of obligations towards third parties, and the current legislation does not allow to act with the necessary effectiveness in order to make those goods available and to reassign them to the circuit of the legal economy and the social valorization of the same. For this reason, I believe that the joint initiative between the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of the Interior can serve to put in place new operating methods that can solve the many critical issues raised also through this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u8	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, I take note of your reply, for which I thank you, and I would like to mention a few aspects. We all know that organised crime, beyond its socio-political aspects, behaves like a company and that stealing from the criminal economy of goods is extremely important. In the case of companies and above all real estate confiscation has a huge symbolic value, because the mafias live in the territory and the real estate generally function as monuments, as signals of their power in the territory itself. When one imagines - as the Government has committed itself to doing by accepting the agenda G3,200 on January 9th - to speed up the procedures to guarantee also the Forces of order, that precisely in the action of subtraction of these assets have distinguished themselves and expenses, as provided for in the legislation regarding the exercise of the right of option, we make great progress in the direction of defeat, even symbolic, of the Mafia. On the other hand, we must be careful because we cannot afford any inefficiency in this area that lurks in the normal functioning of any large structure, because every inefficiency, in a territory at risk, leaves room precisely for a resumption, even symbolic, by the mafia, sometimes even on the same confiscated property. In a question that I have put, and to which it has not yet been answered, I have pointed out that in a municipality in the province of Palermo, Bagheria, there are confiscated properties and still in the availability of the owners, which for those who have opposed the Mafia families is a failure, and it is a failure for the whole State, while for the Mafia it is a substantial affirmation of resistance to state power, which we cannot afford. If we then leave a good not well managed, to decay and lose value, in addition to generating distrust in those entitled, at the same time we generate distrust in the whole population, who sees that that good or is held by families, or no one can use it. For this reason, I welcome with interest and attention your communication on a possible reform of the Agency: I look at this with interest and I invite you, by engaging with my Group, to pay particular attention to this area, because, as I mentioned, it is an area that does not allow any distractions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u9	There follows the questioning 2-00090, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the completion of the review of health charges. I call Senator D'Anna to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u10	Mr President, Undersecretary Fadda, I am presenting an interview presented to the Senate on 6 November 2013 and it is more than eloquent that, if the Government comes to this House to answer after three months, the urgent deadline becomes an insult to those who have signed it (well 38 senators) and - let me say this - ridiculous for those who respond. This is not a matter for you but for the presidency of the Senate. There is a lot of talk about amending the Regulations, but while in the Chamber questions and questions are answered within fifteen to twenty days, a month at most, there is a lack in our Rules for which the power of inspection union of senators is reduced to the minimum indispensable, that is to say to have some vague news when the Government is willing to give it, and therefore in the best of cases it becomes anachronistic. Having said that, I do not deceive myself that you give me answers, nor do I deceive myself that this questioning can serve to stir things up, not only because three months are nothing compared to eighteen years - that is eighteen, the time that is commented on alone - from the last review of the rates of remuneration of benefits, but also because that tariff nomenclator, the so-called Bindi, adopted back in 1996, has been punctually cancelled by the TAR and the subsequent Council of State, and the same fate, due to lack of investigation, has touched on another tariff adopted by the Turkish Minister in 2008. There is already a great inequality in this nation with regard to a part of public health. I would like to remind the House and the Minister that public health is not exclusively a state monopoly, because when it comes to public health it also refers to that part which is not state-run and which, as you teach, is accessible to all and free of charge to those who are entitled to it. However, in this State for the same benefit one party is paid at a rate and one continues to want to charge on the list the homologation party to state management, creating a form of inequality, repeatedly censored by the Antitrust Authority, which makes no sense in a state that mourns misery and continues to impose taxes because of a structural deficit and the large amount of public debt. In fact, logic and economicity would like that if we buy from outside a performance with certain quality criteria at a predetermined price, within that price should also be the same public structure that provides the same performance, whether it is a blood sugar, a specialist visit, or an X-ray. This is therefore incomprehensible, except in view of the ideological prejudice there is to that part of health which is not directly managed by the State, but which is apparently very much appreciated by the citizens. A part of health care that is further burdened by another leghold trap: the so-called spending ceilings. It defines itself as a predetermined budget (the state has the arrogance to predict it in many regions putting burdens and limits of turnover to the structures) not bearing in mind that perhaps in this sector economicity, efficiency and quality are better than in the part under state management, it was nothing else because the professional or the private entrepreneur has all the interest to tie the quality of the performance that it offers to the liking of the user. Thus, these spending ceilings are used as a surreptitious form of misleading users: in fact, once they are exceeded, they either pay the benefits or get in line, with biblical waiting lists (which do not exist in the private accredited part, but no one says so). Mr. Undersecretary, if you go to Florence, it takes four months to get an MRI, in Naples or Sicily you get it in 48 hours. But what has the chrism of non-gratuity seems to be still, in this state, that I call cryptosocialist, something negative. In fact, probably someone confuses the profit that with profiters, while where there is profit there is no salary, and therefore there are those who obtain, within the framework of the laws and regulations, a fair gain for the professional or entrepreneurial performance that they provide. Why did I make this promise? Because it is inconceivable (it is quite clear) that where you pay at a rate, and therefore there are no wheelchairs, clientele or electoral repercussions, the revision of the remuneration rates for about twenty years is not expected. Because if we were to equate the two systems from the point of view of tariffs - as proposed in a bill to which I am a signatory, which I am referring to undersecretary Fadda - by creating a regime of fair competition, with the State which controls the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of the structures, we would have a single tariff, so that the same examination of blood glucose would cost anywhere in the same way, and therefore that tariff, that is the fair remuneration that the professional or the structure that provides that service must receive, would safeguard the interest of both the public and the private accredited party. And when I speak of the accredited private sector - I say this in this rather deserted Chamber - I am not referring to a lucrative private sector, but to a private individual who carries out a public service at agreed prices, therefore at social rate, and does so in the manner in which the State tells him to do so. This would also solve the problem of these professionals who anticipate 90 percent of taxes on emoluments that they do not receive, because late payments range from six months to one and a half years. We have not been able for 20 years to have a correct calculation of the remuneration rates, given that these are not only the expression of the interest, however legitimate, of the dispenser, Mr. Undersecretary, but are the expression of the quality of the services, because if there is someone pretending to pay them there is someone who will pretend to do them: with the cloth of Prato you cannot make the smoking clothes of London. If we have come to the determination of tariffs that, as you recently recognized the same TAR (which then made eminently political decisions), have not been properly calculated (actually they have never been), if these tariffs do not cover the cost of production of the performance, you explain to me what is the guarantee of quality and reliability of the examinations that are paid with these rates. Therefore, there is not only the problem of rewarding those who work, but also of guaranteeing the one who receives this performance. In conclusion, do you want to make these rates or do you want to continue to smuggle ad nutum, depending on what you have in your pocket, of the rates of remuneration paying half of what costs double? Mr Undersecretary, this is the simple question that I ask you before the Italian people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u11	Mr President, as always, Senator D'Anna is brilliant in exposing problems which, in any case, concern the whole health system, from the relationship between the public and the private to the expenditure ceiling, from the return plans to the debts of the public administration, which he mentioned in the premise and which anguish our health system. I will confine myself to the answer to the questioning, because I believe that we will have other opportunities to discuss the issues that Senator D'Anna wanted to mention. With regard to the establishment and completion of the work of the commission, referred to in Article 15 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, which provides for the formulation of proposals aimed at updating the rates in the field of outpatient and hospital care, as illustrated by the honourable interpellants, who have also highlighted not only the non-implementation of the norm but also the resulting criticalities with regard to the health system - as you see, Senator D'Anna, in many things we share the approach you have given - and, specifically, the operators involved, there is a need for clarification. With ministerial decree 29 January 2013 was appointed the commission for the formulation of proposals for updating tariffs. The commission was established on 14 February 2013 and, during the first meeting, in view of the fact that on the scheme of the aforementioned ministerial decree of 18 October 2012 had not been reached the understanding in the State-Regions Conference, it invited the appointed members representing the same Conference to formalize any amending proposals to the current national tariff, to be elaborated in compliance with the public finance balances and to be evaluated during a subsequent meeting, in order to overcome the differences emerged between the central administrations and the Regions on the content of this measure. At the same meeting, the committee also considered it appropriate to compare with trade associations after examination of the proposals of representatives of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces. The regional representatives, despite their requests on 5 and 24 April 2013, did not submit any proposals. But even, on June 6, 2013, they announced that they had asked the Health Commission of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces to verify the actual functions within the collegiate body. Moreover, in a note dated 2 July 2013, the President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces asked - I repeat, he asked - for the suspension of the work of the commission, in the light of the start of the examination of the new Health Pact, in which the issue of the revision of the system of remuneration and the essential levels of assistance will have to be addressed. It should be recalled that, against the aforementioned Decree of 18 October 2012, complaints and requests for annulment have been made and numerous appeals brought by trade associations and individual private bodies are still pending before the administrative court. Despite the above and in view of the accelerated nature of the deadline prescribed by the standard for the completion of the work of the Committee on the updating of the fees for outpatient and hospital specialized care, the commission met again on 26 November 2013. At this meeting, the regional representatives were informed of the contents of the warnings and appeals submitted by the trade associations, asking them to make known to the commission their comments on the contents of the defensive memory prepared by the Ministry of Health, and to transmit, where existing, new studies on the costs carried out at regional level, with particular reference to the outpatient specialist, to be based on any proposals for updating the tariffs referred to in Ministerial Decree 18 October 2012. Following the meeting of 26 November 2013, the TAR of Lazio, while noting certain criticalities with reference to the rates related to the services of outpatient and laboratory specialists, rejected the numerous appeals against the decree of 2012, confirming the substantial legitimacy of the measure under consideration. In conclusion, it seems clear how the issue raised and the existing objective criticalities pointed out by the questioning in question, are not only attributable to the initiatives of the Ministry, but are instead also consequent to the complex process prescribed by the legislation. Therefore, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Health, in sharing what has been expressed by the interrogating senators, makes its constant commitment to the completion of the work on the revision of the tariffs in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u14	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Fadda for his reply, which was actually already known to me, because I am constantly following this matter. It is now known to all that the modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution has made Italian health the dress of Harlequin. However, you can do one thing, Mr Undersecretary; you know that there is now a tariff nomenclator made to carlona by a Commissioner appointed by the TAR. This TAR, while rejecting in this first phase, which will shortly be followed by the ruling of the Council of State, has found that those tariffs still in force and adopted by the Regions must be re-evaluated, because the amount of the discount must be added to the tariff entity. There is in fact a double vulnus; the cut in tariffs and the subsistence of the discount provided by the 2007 Finance Act that the TAR itself considers exhausted at the date of 31 December 2012. Therefore, if the Ministry wanted, in the blackberries of the intricate story, to put into being what the sentence of the TAR Lazio has determined - and I know that the associations of category have already promptly informed of the question both the Ministry and the Regions - we would go to recover at least a part of that cut that has been done uncritically. I receive a lot of criticism for being one of the advocates of the formation of consortia and diagnostic concentration, because I know that the state is not in a position to widen. I am thus between Scilla and Cariddi, among those who reproach me for wanting to destroy a patrimony of small structures and who tells me that all these efforts of ours do nothing if the tariff is not profitable, except for volumes of performance so high that in Italy the laboratory, as in the case in particular, to a few dozen laboratories. Mr Undersecretary, you will understand the impact on unemployment: I therefore wonder why this network should be dispersed, which costs nothing to the State, which is very welcome to the citizens, since it improves accessibility to benefits, in a context in which territorial medicine must overcome the principle of "hospedalocentric" and therefore, where possible, bring care to the sick person's home and not vice versa. I therefore hope that the Minister and the Undersecretary will take action to ensure that, in accordance with the dictates of the TAR, the new health charges, in which they are recognized, are published, at least that part of the tariff that the commissioner ad acta improperly took away, having now ceased the institution of the discount. This would help the structures that are being set up in consortia. We can do all the revolutions we want, we can modernise the system, but people must come alive to the creation of the consortium. If you do not at least provide for this fulfillment, as it invites you to do the same TAR, we will not find those who turn to the consortia and not out of a lack of will, but because they will be dead.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-00345 on the activation of special confidential enabling routes for precarious teachers. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u16	Mr President, the question raised by the honourable Member stems from the timing of implementation of the forecasts of Ministerial Decree No 249 of 2010 (Regulation on the Initial Training of Teachers) on Special Enabling Routes (PAS) for the qualification of teaching in secondary schools of first and second degree. Special skill paths are aimed at teaching staff who have gained three-year teaching experience in both state and peer schools or vocational training centres, between the school year 1999-2000 and the school year 2011-2012. These courses are in fact introduced to allow those who have already exercised the teaching activity to achieve the qualification, through a path that enhances precisely the experience acquired on the field. The aforementioned Ministerial Decree No 249 of 2010 does not currently provide for the possibility of asserting the service rendered in the school year 2012-2013, as it was considered at the time to be able to start the PAS by the school year 2012-2013. The start of the same in the current school year has therefore made it necessary to change the maturity of the participation requirements and this requires a modification of Decree No 249 of 2010. As mentioned in the question, moreover, article 1, paragraph 4, of the decree of the general manager for the school staff n. 58 of July 25, 2013, with which the special enabling routes have been activated and the rules have been defined in order to be able to access them, expressly contemplates the calculation of the school year 2012-2013 in the period useful for the maturation of the professional experience necessary to access the PAS courses. The relevant Directorate-General then reiterated this possibility by a note of 23 October 2013 addressed to all regional school offices. The aspirants were therefore able to declare in the application for participation also the services related to that school year and also the computer system used for the registration of applications was prepared from the beginning to acquire the declaration of the service provided during the same period. The procedure for amending Ministerial Decree No 249 of 2010 is currently under way. The draft measure received the favourable opinion of the National University Council and the National Council of University Students and, pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 416 of Law No 244 of 2007, was sent to both the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and to the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification, who must examine it before sending it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u19	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Mr Sfafe Secretary, thank you for your reply and I particularly thank Mr Carrozza for the great attention she has paid to ensuring that the operational impasse that has long been affecting the Aspirants of the PAS finds a right resolution. The topic reported is now being exceeded; the online registration procedure has ended and many of the various obligations provided for by the ministerial and managerial decrees are concluded or close to the resolution. However, it must be pointed out here that there are still a number of critical issues on the topic of the PAS, as I have already pointed out during the question in the Commission on Public Education and Cultural Heritage on 28 November. Firstly, the actual start-up times of the PAS are likely to be further extended due to delays in the publication of the lists of admitted persons, which may have significant repercussions in the operational framework, for example in the event of a possible and desired reopening of the rankings. It should also be pointed out that the activation of national routes will inevitably be lacking and uneven because some competition classes will only be activated in certain regions, thus giving rise to inequalities in supply and access possibilities. Such fragmentation would require appropriate monitoring and coordination in order to take effective action on individual issues arising from local situations. In this regard, pending harmonisation of the entire path, it would be appropriate to allow teachers who have registered in a region in which the PAS will not be activated for their competition class to transit where there is certainty of activation, Undersecretary. I have pointed out only some of the most urgent problems and I am convinced that, as demonstrated by the operating line adopted so far by his Dicastery, there is the will to give solution to these aspects of the problem, on which I myself will not fail to further urge the Government in a spirit, let me say, of fruitful and effective collaboration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u20	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u21	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-175.ana.u22	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 January, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.45 p.m.
