ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u4	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1612. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place and the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament raised the question of confidence in the approval of amendment 1,800, entirely replacing the single article of bill No 1612 of conversion of Decree-Law No 132 of 12 September 2014. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the House on the financial cover profiles of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u9	Mr President, the Commission has examined the trusted amendment tabled by the Government. We note that there are additions to this measure, after the previous measure, in the amendment on which a vote of confidence is required in relation to the text adopted in the Commission. This, for the second time, innovates a practice. We would always ask the Government to stick to the amendment which the Commission has dismissed, if not, of course, in exceptional cases of particular importance, precisely because on certain subjects these additions involve a very, very careful assessment. However, this is not the case, in which the additions (all except one, of which I will say in a moment) are of no financial significance. They are merely procedural and, therefore, have in no way attracted our financial attention. The only financial addition is that of Article 21, which relates respectively to the establishment and restoration of two courts of peace, with charges borne by the State (they are operating charges), but these figures are absolutely minimal, which, however, are adequately covered. We point out this addition because, in the course of the debate, a senator asked whether this funding from the State of two courts of peace could give rise to emulation demands. It is not the Commission's job to exclude this, but it was not even the task of evaluating it here from the point of view of immediate financial cover, because it is not there. Moreover, the burden for operating services is a subjective right on which we have always focused and, therefore, we have no need to observe. As far as we are concerned, the opinion is of no avail on this issue as well, which I had to report because it was the subject of debate in the Commission. I have nothing more to say, and therefore our financial opinion on the trusted amendment tabled by the Government is of no avail. I should not like to forget one last question: the trusted amendment has correctly reproduced a text on which, after a very long debate, we had expressed an opinion of simple opposition. Thus, this is confirmed as there is no prejudice under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u11	Senator Airola, would you like to speak on the order of business? AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we have taken three minutes to report an important case to this House. If you let me do the surgery at the end of the session, when my colleagues are gone... Depends on what the topic is. Senator Airola, you need to talk about the order of business. Otherwise, he'll talk at the end of the session. AIROLA (M5S). I am speaking on the order of business, because this is an intervention that we have requested to make now and which you have moved at the end of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me what you need to talk about. After that, according to the subject, the intervention takes place. AIROLA (M5S). This is a very important subject, both for this House and for Italian society. If it had been requested by another Parent Company, I am convinced that you would have given in. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me the subject. AIROLA (M5S). Now I'm making her lose three minutes. If he had us do the surgery, we'd have solved it by now. That's what I'm telling you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Proceed, Senator Airola. AIROLA (M5S). I therefore call on Mrs Montevecchi, who has the right sensitivity, to point out the problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm sorry, but you can't invite Senator Montevecchi to intervene. I give the floor in this House, and I am chairing the work. It's not like you have the authority to give the floor to someone else. If you want to speak, speak; if another colleague wants to speak, in terms of the Rules of Procedure, he will ask. You asked for the floor. Please, I call you. AIROLA (M5S). Okay. Then I'll do the surgery that my colleague was supposed to do at the end of the session. I'm here today to pay attention to a cyberbullying case involving... president. No, look, you need to talk about the order of business. He talks about these other cases at the end of the session. If you have a proposal on the order of business, move on. If you have to talk about other things, you have the right to do so, but, in practice, at the end of the sitting. PUGLIA (M5S). Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u12	Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order. You know that some decisions have already been taken by the Presidency Council on this matter, and I would therefore urge you to stop this attitude. [[Comments by Senators Airola and Giarrusso.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Shame on you! Be replaced by someone more worthy! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sit down and watch the proceedings, with respect for the Rules of Procedure. I call you to order, Senator Puglia; sit down and let the Senator Council speak. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Senator Giarrusso, you too, if you're in the Chamber, sit down. The references to the order of business are something else; interventions of a different nature take place at the end of the sitting. Do not force me to suspend work, because we must proceed. PUGLIA (M5S). Let me replace you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, sit in your place, you can't perform... PUGLIA (M5S). Not as long as you're sitting in that chair! You're unworthy. There's no way you're the Vice President of the Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then stand up, what can I do to you? As long as I'm sitting here, she'll stand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u14	Senator Airola, you have already spoken about the order of business, trying to give the floor to another colleague. I only give you the floor if you speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u15	AIROLA (M5S). So, I was talking about the order of business. This intervention, which you do not allow us to take place at the beginning of the sitting, can we do so before colleagues leave the Chamber, why do they have to go home or take the plane?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u16	If it is an intervention on the order of business, it can do so now; if it is other speeches, it is done at the end of the sitting. Clearer and more correct than that I can't be. So if you have anything to say about the order of business, say so. AIROLA (M5S). I'm talking about the order of business. I am talking about the positioning of a speech that is of interest to my fellow Members and which I would like to make before the House is empty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On the order of business, Senator Airola. The Rules of Procedure are clear. AIROLA (M5S). President, what am I talking about? I'm talking about the order of business! Where to place an intervention is or is it not order of the works? PRESIDENT. - The debate is If these are various subjects, they go to the end of the sitting, in accordance with the practice we have given ourselves, with great tolerance, as is known to our colleagues in this House. I'm not following a practice that's different from what we gave ourselves. AIROLA (M5S). It's not like that, it's not like that. PUGLIA (M5S). Let me replace you! AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking for a compromise! [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Senator Giarrusso, stay calm. AIROLA (M5S). Can we do this before our colleagues leave the Chamber? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But they do not have to leave the Chamber. Today is an important day of discussion. AIROLA (M5S). I'm also kind. I'm proposing a compromise. If this isn't okay with you either, we're gonna stop the session. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Senator Airola, I now give the floor to Senator Council, who I invite to work together in his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u17	Mr President, I see that we got off on the right foot this morning. I would like to make a point, Mr President. If you take a look at the list of those who will speak this morning, you will see that within the League Group there will be two senators who have justice in the ropes and myself, who probably do not have it at all. So the idea was to put in a position to express who will be subject to interpret this new decree and who will potentially be a user. Mr President, I do not know where we are going to end up, but I do know that we are having a few pastries in this parliamentary term, especially at this time. There have been great doubts about the constitutionality of this measure, which, as is often the case, are quickly and in just a few seconds, and these are also very serious doubts. It remains to be regretted that this is yet another measure by this Government using instruments aimed at expelling this Parliament and its capacity for initiative. Another decree-law, another recourse to the decree of urgency. The last two dozen measures are the result of decree-laws, someone has already mentioned it. It is a way through which the prerogatives of this House are placed in a drawer, and at this point the work done in the Commission, which has also been copious, thorough and timely, is worth nothing. It is so punctual that it is trivialized by a large amendment which, as Senators Candiani and Malan rightly pointed out, had little relevance to what had been discussed in the Commission and also provided for things that had not been mentioned before. It is a 72-page text, which has forced our colleagues to have a thorough study throughout the night. Then came the icing on the cake: already for some time the rumor was that the decree under consideration would be the subject of a new question of trust. Clearly the doubt was thrown out last night, with the entry into the field of Minister Boschi. Thus, yet another confidence has been placed, which we consider to all intents and purposes to be another absurd instrument, especially for a matter such as that which is dealt with by the measure under consideration, which, as it has been taken into consideration by the Government, cries out vengeance before God. As a rule, then, God is the greatest of the judges and so he is also right for us. The issues we are dealing with are complex, binding and more than ever current and should therefore have been dealt with in the right times, that is those proper to the normal parliamentary process of a bill. We then wondered what the urgency was: for years, perhaps for many years, we have been among the worst in the world in the unupbuilding ranking of the pending litigation, especially on appeal, with a systematic violation of the reasonable duration of the trial, referred to in Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The decree-law is presented as the reform of justice, but then, if you read it, you realize that things already present in our order are foreseen. Had it really been a very urgent matter, it would have been enough to give course at least to a bill that our Divine Senator had presented for this purpose, in the matter of assisted negotiation, some time ago. Maybe they'd save themselves a few years and some worthless work. Although there are elements in this provision that we are nevertheless in favour of, I believe that some articles, especially Articles 6 and 12, are to say the least critical. In particular, Article 6 regulates the negotiation agreement assisted by a lawyer for consensual solutions of personal separation and termination of the civil effects of marriage. Article 12 also deals with consensual separation and the request for the dissolution of marriage. It is easy for me to ask whether the urgency of the justice problem and all that revolves around it can be reduced to the minimum terms by changing the possibility of concluding a consensual separation between the parties or a joint divorce, possibly even before a civil state officer. The measure speaks of summary proceedings and attempts at conciliation. Mr President, these instruments already exist: it was only enough that they were used in a better way. I also find it a bit to smile at the idea that one can only think that if two parties have come to a judicial dispute before a judge without finding a compromise, one can then reach an agreement only because this is provided for in the decree under consideration. Many of the rules laid down in the measure are heterogeneous and without urgency. Emergency legislation risks paradoxically weighing down the civil process, increasing its interpretation and application doubts. We criticize the rules on easy divorce, which put the evaluation of children's rights back in the public prosecutor's office, in contrast to the constitutional protection of children and the weakest spouse. With this decree-law we are faced with one of the many paradoxes of our times. The family is under attack: we have also seen it in the last exits of some quite famous mayor. The state is called to defend it and rebuild and strengthen the bonds and family forces that hold it together and, instead, what does it do? It supports, directly or indirectly, a completely negative family policy and family law. More than complex is also the question of undermining the most elementary certainties: the family is put under threat. A concept expressed several times in recent years - as we said a moment ago - also by Pope John Paul II in the Letter to the Families, in which he wrote that the disintegration of the family seems unfortunately to point to various programs supported by very powerful means. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In order to dispose of the backlog, perhaps it was necessary to intervene on the procedures and the shortage of staff for which, in our opinion, the measure has a propaganda nature, complicates the procedures, introduces new burdens for the parties and does not encourage the use of extrajudicial institutions. Before I finish, I wanted to stress that one of the most wrinkled sheets of this parliamentary term is what Minister Boschi has in his hand, who for the 23rd time has come to this House to ask for confidence. This is a fact that will undermine this legislature. So, Mr President, we are asking that this measure should not be treated as a reform of justice but as the small beginning of something that has already gone wrong. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u19	Mr President, this morning, once again in this Chamber of the Senate, the majority, and in particular the government, are putting in place an act that has an exquisitely political nature, that is to say the demand for trust, where it is a measure that has an exquisitely technical nature. We are talking about the reform of the civil process, a work begun in the Commission, following a decree-law of the Government that - it has been said also in the examination of the prejudices of constitutionality - perhaps it was wrong to issue, as there was no urgency, there were no characteristics provided for by the constitutional norm that allows the use of this legislative activity precisely of urgency by the Government. Well, despite these very strong concerns and these remarks, in the Commission, in a spirit I would say also cooperative with the Government and with the majority, we, opposition forces, have tried to improve the measure at least from an exquisitely technical point of view. I must acknowledge that Senator Cucca was sensitive to the demands and remarks made from time to time, and also to the Government, which in some ways understood that certain rules included in the decree were technically wrong. The result was to exclude from assisted negotiation, this new procedural institute that is introduced into our civilized procedural system, the whole matter of work. It has also been difficult to understand that it was not possible to transfer to private trading or assisted trading an indispensable right, such as the right to the FTT in the field of employment relations, having a duty-free nature. We then began a serious discussion on the activities related to the causes of marriage dissolution: separation and divorce. We have tried to stress that this forecast was against the principles of the Constitution; marriage was distorted, as I have already pointed out in the general discussion of the measure under consideration; we have tried to make it clear that the matrimonial institution, as included in Article 29 of the Constitution, assumed characteristics of advertising and therefore a public function, whose dissolution could not be devolved to an assisted negotiation and therefore to the will of the parties. He was pompous - let me pass this disliked term - something between the forces of the New Right Center and the Democratic Party to try to find a solution. It was, therefore, imagined to entrust the examination of the regularity of the act, with which the parties in the context of assisted negotiation or in any case before the public official, the civil state officer, had found the agreement, at the scrutiny of the prosecutor. Well, this novelty was made in the presentation of the maxi amendment accompanying the measure under consideration. This is an inappropriate determination, because in the Commission it has only been presented and not discussed and therefore has the characteristics of the novelty; I do not believe that a Government can, when putting forward the question of trust, introduce substantial changes to a measure that has already been examined, at least to a large extent, by the Justice Commission. Apart from this aspect, which - in my opinion - is of constitutional importance, there is also another element of great importance. I am aware that the need for such an understanding arose, but this must never clash with the technical error. In fact, with the proposed solution, namely Article 6 (this is the novelty introduced this morning in the Chamber with the maxi amendment), two hypotheses have been envisaged: that of the couple who has no children and that of the couple who has minor or handicapped children. That's not the point, though. The main question, which is serious, is that he entrusts himself to the prosecutor of the Republic a role of judge that is not attributed to him by any rule of our law. The prosecutor has the power of action, indeed the obligation of prosecution; the prosecutor participates in the criminal process as a party and not as a judge; the prosecutor is present in all proceedings, even civil, where there is a public interest to protect: I imagine, for example, the declaration of bankruptcy or the procedure for separation, where there is a public interest that must be protected by the public prosecutor. With the amendment introduced in the maxi amendment the function of the prosecutor is distorted, because it is given the power, the possibility to decide so that if that report has some irregularities is transmitted to the court, in the presence of children, otherwise, decides, but does not communicate to anyone. Moreover, the time limits are set: five days for the prosecutor and ten days for the court and, as we know, the time limits assigned to the judges are always authorising and never perempting. I wonder: if the prosecutor receives the record of separation of the spouses drawn up before the civil state officer, not in the five days but in ten, twenty or thirty days, when will the party ever know whether the measure, their determination, their agreement has been ratified or not? Trust is an exquisitely political act. The government puts trust when drawing a political line. Therefore, it calls on its majority to give it confidence and therefore to dismiss legal measures that go in the direction of the political line it has drawn. In the case of the measure we are examining this morning, there is no political line: it is not a political act, it is an exquisitely technical act. In the past legislatures, in the years before, when criminal or civil procedural matters were dealt with, representatives of Italian doctrine were audited. I remember, for example, the Vaccarella reform on which the best doctrinators of the civil process of our country worked for years, carrying out a careful reflection, because it was rules that were going to regulate the conduct and the governance of the process. The rules have been reversed: today we are asking for confidence, which is an exquisitely political act, on a measure that is exquisitely technical. All this is done in a hasty, wrong way, with serious errors which, in my opinion, will certainly be brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court, because many predictions are completely unconstitutional. I have already noted that some of my amendments (for example, the one that excluded the subject of work) have also been accepted: I had to work a lot, because it was difficult to explain myself well, but what I wanted to say was well understood. I was also trying to find solutions to this problem in a spirit of cooperation, but suddenly, on a measure on which a number of amendments had been tabled (in the Commission it was also said that there was a willingness to fix them, to evaluate them in order to discuss them in the Chamber) comes the request of confidence from the Government. I hope that this is the last time that, on a measure that has nothing political but only procedural technique, trust is called for. Personally, I cannot vote for the confidence of this Government, particularly for the technical reasons I have said and because I do not agree that a Government, supported by a majority, must dismiss the measures at all costs and that the primary objective is time and not quality. The quality passes in second order: what must be respected is the timing that the Government gives itself in dismissing these measures in order to be able to announce them. Moreover, it is a confidence that is required for reasons, now yes, also political reasons. Why? Because we know very well that it could be asked, and would have been asked, for the secret vote and, in this House, when the decisions are taken by secret vote, the balances change: there is no more majority. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] When the vote is clear, there is a majority, that majority consisting of colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, who must swallow the toad and accept, approve and share what they would not have accepted and which they do not share, which they could have expressed with the secret vote. The secret vote has become the fear of this government. So, if every time there is a measure for which the secret vote is admissible this Government and the majority rely on confidence, I believe that my parliamentary activity is seriously compromised and impoverished and I have no reason to sit in these benches, except to go under your Presidency and say 'no', as I will be doing in a few minutes on this occasion too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u20	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u21	Mr President, we would like to open our speech as a Group of the North Legacy by making a profound criticism of the methodology adopted to address this sensitive issue. We are talking about a problem that has existed for years now, relating to the civil withdrawal, and the Minister has also acknowledged it, saying that we are finally beginning to think about the civilian and not just about the issues that concern the criminal procedure. That Italy has such a high level of litigation with regard to neighbouring countries, such as Germany, is really worrying, but it is even more worrying to think of resolving these problems by means of a decree-law, which imposes absolutely inadequate times for dealing with this situation. A decree-law that imposes fast time limits in order to speak - let us remember - of family law (we are talking about procedures relating to family law) and on which we reach the end of the process to even put a vote of confidence! In the Commission we have followed a path of great depth, with a constant discussion on many issues, but there are issues that can bore our fellow citizens. If one thinks that it has always been thought that the dissolution of the marriage, resulting in a change of status, was possible only with a judgment now, with this decree-law, the dissolution of the marriage can be formalized with an agreement between lawyers or even with an agreement collected by a civil state officer. These issues can hardly be resolved by a brief debate, and above all it is an insult to the law not to talk about them in this House, not to be able to discuss issues that had also been raised in the Justice Commission and which have not been addressed. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Fucksia]] I am referring, for example, to the issue of family mediation and to aspects relating to the attractiveness of alternative remedies to jurisdiction, such as assisted negotiation or arbitration. There were so many issues still to be addressed, and some of the amendments were withdrawn precisely to allow a reflection on them and to be able to arrive in this House with positions that were perhaps shared. And then, in the end, the vote of confidence is imposed! Even more surprising is the confidence because we in the opposition - and I am talking about the North League but I think we can also include others - have not done obstructionism. We have tried to cooperate and have tabled purely improving amendments. Nor has an amendment been tabled with a minimum of obstructionism; there has been full cooperation. Similar amendments could very well be voted on in the Chamber, even in decent times, because we certainly do not intend to paralyze a measure which nevertheless contains something good, for example the assisted negotiation that is also provided for in a bill of law of the North League at the first signature of the Divine Senator. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead of addressing these issues, trust is placed here. So one wonders what the explanatory statement might be, why ask for a vote of confidence when there is no obstructionism, when it is well known that many of the amendments, including those of the North League, have been accepted in the Commission, along with others proposed by other opposition forces. This collaboration must be nuanced: doubts then arise. It is not a question of speed of treatment, it is not an emerging problem in the sense that the measure may lapse. There is a doubt that there has been a fear that certain determinations in this House could not have gone as far as the Commission did. Or was there the spectre that Senator Calderoli could demand the secret vow? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And it is perhaps on that secret vote that some solutions would have been overturned. No, I'd better have a vote of confidence then. But the vote of confidence is being asked about what is actually being done, not about future promises. Needless to say, as the Minister has said, that in the law of stability will be provided incentives for arbitration, for assisted negotiation (all measures contained in the amendments of the Lega Nord submitted to the Commission Justice, which at this point will not be dealt with in the Chamber) or, relative to the staff: we cannot think of assessing a measure for what might be in the future, but for what it is at present. Moreover, let us say again: President Renzi, you cannot, you cannot call this measure reform of justice. Minister Orlando himself, with great intellectual honesty, said that these were only partial answers, a small reclamation - as he called it - of the system. This is not the reform of justice, as jobs act is not the reform of labor and that of the Senate is not the reform of all institutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Let's be serious. We're moving on. We will continue to work and hope that at least in some other measure there will be real solutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u23	Mr President, I wonder if we still need to speak in this debate. Excuse me, Undersecretary Cassano, I know very well that you are the representative of the Government, but in reality we are having a debate without the Government, because, Mr President, when it comes to technical matters, when we are discussing the matter of justice, it would be desirable for a representative of the Ministry of Justice to be present, it never happened that he was not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u24	Senator Caliendo, the government is present so we can proceed. The triplet decree-trust-absence of the competent Ministry is to be noted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u25	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you know very well that I have been Undersecretary for three and a half years at the Dicastery of Justice, but at that time there has never been an absence of such a measure, all the more so because we are faced with a request for confidence, Mr President, which, as I recall, for the first time is placed not on the text approved by the Commission, but on a different text, on amendments proposed by the rapporteur in this House, for which we had tabled a number of sub-amendments, in relation to which we therefore needed a debate and a verification to determine what the Senate's will was. On the one hand, we give the Commission an opinion of impproposity on the amendments tabled by Senator Buemi in relation to the revision of judicial districts, and, on the other hand, we find them out of the matter in the maxi mum amendment on which we are called to vote on the confidence of the corrections precisely in relation to the revision of judicial districts, corrections which I agree with, among other things. The problem, however, is not whether or not to share the corrections, but rather to lay down rules that must always be respected, in order to ensure proper intercourse between the Government and Parliament, otherwise there is no respect for Parliament. For example, the Government states - and I agree - that there is no possibility of overlap between mediation and the agreement of assisted negotiation; well, if there is no overlap, there is no problem of processability on the same subjects, while with the Government's favourable opinion an amendment is approved according to which the course of the term for the experiment of the assisted negotiation procedure, in cases where it is a condition of proceeding of the judicial application, determines the expiry of any other term. And then, just to make you account, in Article 3, paragraph 5 - I want to understand then the interpreters how they will be oriented - we will read: The provisions providing for special conciliation and mediation measures, however referred to as "B', shall remain in place. The text is then added to our examination: The period referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall, where the conditions of procedure are provided for, apply to matters subject to other terms of procedure, i.e. mediation, together with the same terms of procedure. Do you realize that? On the one hand, it is said that mediation, as it relates to others, remains standing; on the other hand, reference is made to the course of the term for the experiment of the assisted negotiation process. How will the interpreter determine what the legislator's will is? I do not want to discuss anything else, but yesterday Minister Orlando - I regret to have to speak in his absence - asked the question whether the presence of the judge in the matter of consensual divorces is necessary. He also said that it is not true - and here I agree with the Minister - that there is a privatisation of family relations with the subtraction of the knowledge of the judge; but he cannot say that these are administrative acts. Until proven otherwise, Article 1 of the Divorce Act requires the judge to ascertain the impossibility of re-establishing coexistence, the official of the civil state, on the other hand, does nothing, does not ascertain anything. It is also expected to start a period of only thirty days, forgetting however that the officer of the civil state will have to make a verification of the recurrence of the assumption, even if he is only competent, under this decree, for divorces on the basis of the period of separation provided for by the law on divorce. How do you do this? It is not written anywhere that the rules laid down by the substantive law apply. Will the spouses then have to produce the certificates and separation judgments for the verification of the separation period and since when does the separation start? Secondly, in the Divorce Act, which protects the weakest spouse, the obligation to produce tax returns is included. Does this evaluation have to be done by the civil status officer or not? It will certainly have to do so at least on the occasion of the assumption, ignoring the weaker spouse: other than the protection of the weaker spouse, Minister, it is precisely the opposite, at a time when there is no such determination. What will the prosecutor do, however, when, under the assisted agreement, both in consensual divorce, even with children, and in consensual separation, the acts will be sent to him? In the amendment introduced in the maxi amendment to Article 6, it is said that, on the one hand, when it considers that the agreement is in the interests of children, it authorizes it: but what is an administrative activity? It is an authorization: the prosecutor, on the part of the matrimonial lawsuits that also concern consensual separations, according to Article 70 of the Code of Civil Procedure, becomes a control and authorization body. There has never been an authorization measure in our law, not the judge, who would already have been different, but even the prosecutor. In addition, if there are no children, if there is no irregularity, he shall inform the lawyers of the clearance. Which means don't do anything. What does that mean? Non-obstacle is an administrative measure, so we have a problem with the coordination of these rules with the system. In matters relating to matters of state, the judgment is necessary. I do not have to discuss why the sentence is necessary, since you all know the ongoing discussion also on the transcription of homosexual marriages celebrated abroad by the mayor of Rome, Marino. You know very well what the debate is going on about who is entitled to challenge those acts and the need for the judge to intervene in a judgment. I wonder, then, whether it is possible that we should ignore all this and that a government, without any responsibility, poses a problem of lengthening the time. Compared to the current situation, in fact, this brings before the officer of the civil state the lengthening of the thirty days, because in the case in which the spouses have reached the agreement with the lawyers with a consensual separation or with a consensual divorce have definitively their judicial investigation within thirty days, as expected. Finally, if the prosecutor actually carries out his activity, what will he do? In order to assess the interests of minors and whether agreements between the parties respond to what the law provides for the protection of minors or the weaker spouse, it will have to start an investigation and request the production of documentation in order to assess whether or not the agreement that has been signed corresponds to that interest. So? Let us evaluate all this with a measure on which trust is sought. I fully agree with what the Minister has said on one issue: as those who have been part of the Justice Commission know, for the past year and a half I say that it is not always criminal, because, when we want to reform justice, the first point to be dealt with is civil justice, which guarantees the rights of every citizen. But this rule is used to do what? In order not to guarantee an acceleration of judgment, to offer an alternative to the parts that will be difficult to use and that, when used, will prove to be a patrocchio. In the European and international system, in fact, a consensual divorce, founded only on the stamp of the civil state officer, will hardly have the recognition of other countries. I remind you - I have already told you in the course of the general discussion - that in our country we have recognized for forty years divorce sentences issued by judges of other jurisdictions, in which there is no separation, on the basis of a given: the judges in those jurisdictions have established the impossibility of restoring coexistence. This is not just a choice of our country: in all other European countries it is the judge. And then I wonder what the reason is, if not that of a commercial that is used for this. Then my arms fall, Mr President, when I go to check some corrections. Be careful: we have not taken a position of opposition, but we have made amendments to the functionality of these rules. And when we go to verify what happens in the context of the suspension of the working terms, which applies to all the European countries, it is noted that the Government, only to make an act almost of condescension to corporate bodies, has established the period from 1st to 31 August of each year instead of the period that goes from 6 to 31 August, as was foreseen in the decree. Does the Minister realize that if a hearing is held on 3 September, on 15 August the final appearances must be deposited? It was much more fair to predict thirty days, but in the period from August 6 to September 6. We suggested this to you, not because of our philosophy, but on the basis of the Constitutional Court's judgments, which acknowledged that the suspension of the working term concerns the right of defence of the weaker and more exposed parties. Then they did not even accept the change in the vacation of the magistrates, in order to make them actually thirty days. The last amendment tabled by the rapporteur was to give even the possibility to the Supreme Council of the judiciary - but we will probably come to that - which, in fact, will choose not to enforce the thirty days. If we were to get to the suspension of the deposit of judicial measures in those thirty days, as happens for all civil servants, we will have not the thirty-six days, which we had predicted as opposition, explaining that in the first six days of August we must close all the measures, but rather what? In the end we will find ourselves unable to have the thirty days of storage, which took place even during the working period, and we will have a longer time to deposit the measures. In conclusion, Mr President, I have another conception of the relationship between majority and opposition: a concept which is based only on the fact that we must work together when it comes to protecting rights. We do not impose the wrong or just choice that we believe, for the simple fact that it was formulated by the government and we do not have to discuss it. Is that the way to argue? I don't think so. [[Live applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u26	I would point out to Senator Caliendo that Deputy Minister Costa is now present on the benches of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u27	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and citizens who listen to us from home, we are faced with yet another request for trust. This time it is a matter of prior confidence, more than a month ago. It is a bit disturbing to put ahead of time confidence, even prior to the debate in the Commission. It reminds me of a recent incident in this House yesterday when it was raised that the signing of an act by the five Senators, the Leaders of the majority parties, was signed, in which it stated: Having heard the communications of the President of the Council, it shall approve them. All right, you will say: no, because the act was signed a week before hearing it. Basically, you're approving it regardless. I listened yesterday to the replies of the rapporteur and the Minister: many passages have puzzled me, while others have been decidedly clarifying. For example, Minister Orlando said that this measure is not a reform of the civil process, which will come later. Well, has anyone from the Ministry of Justice been careful to warn the President of the Council, who continues to talk about it as if it were an epochal reform of the civil process in Italy? Minister Orlando said it was hypocritical to call it a privatisation of justice. Mr. Minister, what else should we call it? Does not all the institutions you have referred to - arbitration, conciliation and assisted negotiation - propose that the parties settle the dispute by using professionals? 10:35 a.m. (Beeps up). Attention, I do not mean that this is necessarily an evil; I say that, in order to function, this mechanism must be sufficiently encouraged. On this point, you, Minister, recalled that you had received comfort from the lawyer and from the judiciary. It is not true; indeed, the opposite is true. For example, there are the observations of the Unitary Body of Vetting (OUA), of which I read an excerpt of two lines: If the aim of the reform is to dispose of the backward (...), the Vetting fears that it is not seductive towards its customers in order to orient them to choose the translation arbitration, that is, the possibility to transfer to arbitration the litigation in action in court, or the assisted negotiation, in the absence of significant tax and tax facilities. This is the opinion of the OAU, I will be told, and then let's go see the opinion of the National Union of Civil Chambers (UNCC), with reference to the Institute of Iudician Translatio: As the norm has been formulated, the institute is not "appetite" and it is therefore easy to predict that it would be yet another wasted opportunity. According to the UNCC, it is therefore necessary to provide tax benefits. If this is not enough, let us also remember the observations of the National Forensic Association (ANF): with reference to the content of the decree-law, it is noted that the provision is rather incomplete and that, in the absence of adequate incentives and facilities, also and above all of a fiscal and tax nature, such means have very little appeal to the citizen. This is the National Forensic Association. Not to mention - then - the National Association of Judges (ANM). To the dry question put by President Palma in the Commission: "Do you think this reform as it is?," President Sabelli replied: "No." What else do we have to add? On the other hand, failure is easily predictable. In order to benefit from the service, Italian citizens already pay taxes among the highest in the world: they pay stamp and unified contribution, and now they will also have to pay the assisted conciliation and all other attempts of mediation provided by law. How to say: since the courts are clogged, arrange. In my opinion, this is not a step forward, on the contrary: it is a step backwards. Another point on which I would like to focus, no less important, is the failure to introduce a short divorce, which represents a huge loss of opportunity. It has been said that this argument, namely the short divorce, would have been outside the scope of this decree. So the government comes to the Senate Justice Commission, well before the summer, to announce this decree. This announcement suspends the discussion of the draft law on short divorce in the Commission, because we have to wait for the government's measure, which should have been harmonised with the first, both dealing with the matter of divorce. In summary, to understand us correctly, the Government suspends the work of the Commission because it has to intervene with a measure on the same subject, divorce and then refuses the amendment on the short divorce, which was expected by the citizens, because it would be extraneous to the matter. Who are you kidding? Can you then explain to me what is right with the decree for the establishment of the judge of peace in Ostia? I do not mean that the revision of judicial geography is not acceptable; but what does it have to do with it? On the short divorce allow me to make a brief additional consideration. Press organizations have talked about it with enthusiastic tones, but - look at the coincidence - they spoke about it as if it had been a great success of the Renzi Government; a pity that it was not approved. I quote briefly "Il Sole 24 Ore" of October 16: ==References====External links==* Official website (...) In the Senate's Justice Committee, it was approved last night I quote "La Stampa" from a few days earlier: Less constraints and faster times: what does the "short divorce" mean? (...) Less constraints and leaner procedures. The Renzi Government has a strong focus on short divorce. The Tg2 - let's talk about RAI - has given the same news, which is destitute of every foundation, talking about the reduction of the terms of legal separation to a year, as approved. Now, of the two: either it's gross mistakes - it could be - or there's a scientific will to bring down the government always standing. Look at the coincidence. A second consideration, which I think is no less important, concerns the Democratic Party, which, by the voice of its honourable Member (today MEP) Alessandra Moretti, has thrown for months and months discrediting the Senate, accusing it of being a swamp to be eliminated, because it is guilty of not wanting to dismiss the measure on the short divorce. Today we know that the only ones responsible for these delays are the Government and precisely the Democratic Party, which rejected first and then withdrew in the Commission two amendments that would have introduced this important and awaited reform into our system. I'll finish. Apart from the criticism of the instrument used, the decree of urgency has always proved ineffective in the matter of justice: of really necessary and urgent measures, such as the coverage of the 8,000 gaps of staff that paralyse justice, there is no trace. Yesterday we saw the announcement of 1,000 recruitments by Minister Orlando; of course, it is better than nothing, but they are always and only announcements. The reform of the Code of Procedure towards a necessary and urgent simplification has also only been announced by the Government. Most of the suggestions proposed by the oppositions, the advocacy and the ANM were not accepted. How, then, do you come to ask us for confidence in this provision? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u29	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u30	Mr President, I have a very strange impression, shared by all my colleagues in the League: we are passively witnessing a subversion of the established order. We should explain to President Renzi that the Commission's legislative work in our system is purely exceptional. It is an exceptional fact that a decree is made, because situations of gravity, urgency and necessity must be resorted to. The two Houses of Parliament are the bodies that adopt the legislative rules. Since the arrival of the Renzi Government, this Parliament has had to discuss decrees issued by the Government, trying to amend them - the function of Parliament is also to adjust, add and limare - but being unable to carry out this function as well, because inevitably every decree is accompanied by a question of trust, with which they say: Take it, make a package and take it home! The government decides the fate of this country: it has become the caregiver of Italians! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Italians do not need a caregiver, but a democratic system that guarantees a minimum of democracy. I have spoken of subversion, but I would like to push even more on the accelerator: there is also a serious insubordination. Last night and this morning, the government is debating its law of stability with local authorities and, specifically, with the Regions. The Government has taken a position, saying: "It is only I who protect the interests of the Italians: you Governors cut and do what I say! You just have to save, because you're only able to waste it. Renzi Government, the Governors and the Regions, do the interests of Italians or do their own interests? If you want to pass on the message that only you represent the Italians, the democratic system of local authorities and direct representation! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Renzi had no direct investiture whatsoever! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But in addition to the intention to represent the interests of Italians, let's see if Renzi really represents them. If he were to read even one of his "pravde" in the sense that many newspapers are now flattened and enslaved to the governments of the left, two days ago he would have read on "La Stampa" a picture, a photograph of the current situation, and would have seen that, for example, 20% of the income of immigrants is reinvested or spared: the newspaper does not say so, but it returns to the countries of origin in the form of a remittance. How come Italians can no longer save money and foreigners save 20% of their incomes, which are probably medium-low, or even lower than those of Italians? The reason for this is that the prebende and social aid have over time been all unbalanced in favour of the newcomers, with respect to the natives, whose interests no one will care for any longer. When Renzi talks about the baby bonus, the moms bonus, for the extension of the 80 euros, he realizes that Italians no longer have children and that 280 percent of the new born come from foreign families, so all that money will increase that 20 percent of the income saved and to make remittance? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Even the Italians emigrated to our country, but all those money come out of the Italian system and are lost. The logic of help, of welfare, is that those who live in Italy have the right to live decently, but must spend in our country, because in this way it sets in motion domestic demand and the economy. Then we add the other beautiful invention related to the TFR: since the Italians can no longer make it, they will also have to ask for that part of savings, which they should have found in more difficult times, when the income thins and the pension is perhaps no longer enough, to spend now even that little peculiar. We do not realize how this Government will starve even future generations! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Interests of Italians. President Renzi, always according to the article of "La Stampa" the Italians employed are 59.5%, the immigrants employed 60.1 percent; there are more unemployed inside than foreigners and we do not count children and the elderly otherwise this number would be even more negative. I will finish because time is running out. I thank Renzi and at the same time accuse him for plagiarizing, that is to say having taken my proposal, which was not exactly so pilgrim because he even included it in his provision. It is not really a proposal of the undersigned but borrowed from the French system that, in order to simplify the work of the courts and the judiciary, proposes to leave for the negotiable rights that two defenders can deal with the matter only by having it ratified by a court. Thank you Renzi, although he should have recognized that someone else had already filed this proposal for a few years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We would have wanted to explain to Renzi, had it not been trusted, that the violence in the stadiums can be solved in a simple way - the League had also proposed it - through the institution of the delayed arrest. It is a matter of allowing the police to be detained at 48 hours, i.e. 40 hours away from the crime. It is difficult, in fact, for the police at the time of riots and violence within the stadiums to arrest the culprits and to quell the riots at the same time. Based on the evidence obtained through videos and videos the arrest could take place later. The person goes home the next day, calmly. We would have suggested this, but unfortunately with confidence this was not possible. But what confidence can we give? An insubordination to local authorities, a subversion of the established order, a plagiarism not even declared and suggestions not accepted. But what confidence do you want? A confidence in the new Republic of China - p-renzi-denzial? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The League doesn't feel like giving it. Quoting some good latinism: quousque tandem Renzi abutere patientia nostra? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u31	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u32	Mr President, we are faced with a decree-law, therefore theoretically with a measure which should be of necessity and urgency. The heading "urgent measures for dejurisdictionalisation and other measures for the definition of backwardness in the field of civil process" is replaced by the following: This title, which is almost a tongue twister, actually reveals that there is certainly a need, with necessity and urgency, to provide for the system of justice. Too bad that the content of this decree does not really solve the problems of justice at all, if anything puts others; moreover, far from allowing justice to be facilitated in the performance of its functions, it will certainly bring further complications, ambiguities and costs. The first observation, made also by those who preceded me in this House, is that the measure under consideration is once again part of the parliamentary prerogatives: once again we see that a decree of government initiative, and therefore with all the highly limiting timing of this instrument, is inserted, as has been mentioned here, with different tones and contents but always with the same appeal, within a Commission in which similar measures are already under discussion or waiting to be discussed and amended, and in any case they always need deep reflection. Well, the government is part of a matter already under consideration by the Commission, the snatch with little dexterity through a decree-law, with all the consequences that we see. This measure has certainly been improved in the Commission because, fortunately, contrary to what happened with the last decree-law (of course also approved with the imposition of the question of trust), this time the Commission's adoption was accepted. In the Commission too, however, there has been a need to deal with this subject in different ways, with care and mediation capacity. Mrs Stefani has rightly spoken of insulting the right. It is right because the only solution at the basis of this decree is to influence what is in the very nature of the law, that is, the presence of a third party, of a judge: since it seems difficult that such third partyship can be guaranteed for the costs that it is evidently believed to involve, it is replaced by subtracting even very sensitive matters from that dimension and entrusting them to a type of negotiation, to assisted negotiation, that is to say to an agreement in which the parties try to agree and make themselves represented by their lawyers. I remember that in the shield of Achilles, described in the Iliad, the city in peace is symbolized by a process: this is the civilization that allows peace. This trial is celebrated with two contenders and subjects who have the function of expressing third-partyness, judges. The parties' lawyers are not by definition super parties. If the matter of work has been removed from this procedure in the Commission, yet another extremely sensitive matter has not been taken away, namely separation and divorce, on which the Government has attempted extremely clumsy mediation. In fact, in the search for protection of the weak parts - which have been identified in children, children, disabled or economically not self-sufficient - the Government, with the latest drafting of Article 6, proposes that the prosecutor of the Republic assume a role that, beyond the fact that it belongs to him or not, as described by my colleague Caliendo, will hardly be able to fulfil. Let us return to the fundamental problem of the fact that, in any case, justice today needs more efficiency, more means or more adequate means or more appropriate use of existing means. If, therefore, we entrust the prosecutor of the Republic with the task of verifying and protecting the interests of children, it may happen, first of all, that the prosecutor - in any case already in serious difficulty to carry out correctly and in the appropriate time what is entrusted to him - will hardly be able to play the role that is given him. It will then become absolutely useless what is provided for in the measure, because the matter will be systematically referred to the judgment, or it will be necessary to carry out a punctual verification. This, therefore, will not solve the question of the speed of justice nor the problems of the efficiency and correctness of the application of the law, nor those that in the title of the decree-law in question are highlighted as problems that will be solved. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] This is the same system adopted with other measures, for example with the jobs act. Once again, we are faced with a political operation whereby, in the face of a Parliament that works, legislates and has its time linked to mediation (necessary for such delicate matters), a measure is presented which is an empty box, on which the question of trust is placed, which is a mess, which is formulated and badly drafted. The Commission has succeeded in intervening on certain parts, but unfortunately not on everything, because in fact they are empty boxes that are packed with excellent media equipment. These empty, but medialy packaged boxes are for the benefit of the President-in-Office of the Council, who boasts of things he spends in the immediate future because after a month or two or three months, a year will see the total ineffectiveness of these measures. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] But what I would like to point out to my colleagues is that you vote for these empty boxes but then, while the great media advantage takes him the big boss, you will have to put it on the territories. It is not news in the newspapers, but Monday in the Chamber of Labour of Reggio Emilia during the discussion on jobs act the colleagues of the Democratic Party were caught in the face by the union delegates. That's what happens! [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] In the end, you have to put your face on it! You have to put it individually, one by one. When these measures reveal all their ineffectiveness, you will have to put your face in front of your constituents and do not think that you can be taken away in the name of loyalty to a party secretary and the President of the Council. I'll add one more thing. The proof that this measure is a ridiculous political operation lies in hypocrisy, which I want to stress because I find it to be a truly significant editorial hypocrisy. At the end of paragraph 3 of Article 6, after not resolving the problems that this provision already presented originally, indeed after increasing the weight of justice in certain areas, we read this sentence: "in paragraph 3, after the first period, the following is inserted: "The agreement states that lawyers have attempted to reconcile the parties and informed them of the possibility of family mediation. Pleonic and ridiculous! But, above all: "It is also noted that lawyers have informed the parties of the importance for the child to spend adequate time with each of the parents" (). This is a completely unrelated definition from a context in which the conditions, the protection of minors are obviously not at the attention of the legislator. Of course, the discontent with this way of proceeding is endless and resonates in all parts of this House. The gravity is that these measures, which do not resolve, make the country wait even longer than the needs that exist and that will knock at our door. Those who take responsibility for not giving today the answers that the country asks if they take it all the way then and go before the voters to say: I'm the one who decided this. I endorsed it. I don't! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u34	Mr President, we are faced with the umpteenth act of the majority of the Renzi Government, which, after having done something already inadmissible (a decree-law on the reform of a part of the civil process, which has some incredible), now even puts confidence in it, and, with a further step, not only calls for confidence, but asks for it on a large amendment that does not accept even what has been done in the Commission. I will not dwell on the harmful content of this measure which, at best, will be completely useless because it is put back to the mere goodwill of the parties, so it is a mere invitation that will fall, like all invitations, into the void. I will not even address the technical issue because the issue is different and more serious: pay attention to the prerogatives and sovereignty of the citizens of this country by affecting the representative bodies of this sovereignty, such as the House and Parliament, which are stripped of their prerogatives by this act. All this is done in a matter in which there is, completely in agreement with all the doctrine, the need for an extremely careful examination of every single word. In fact, we are talking about the civil process, the most sensitive matter in our law, the consequences of which are not easily understandable and identifiable, but require study, patience and work, which our President-in-Office of the Council does not know. He does not even know one of these words: study, patience and work. He doesn't even know one! He is in a hurry to formulate his slogans on important subjects, on the people's skin! The citizens have another problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which is very much absent from this House: they have the problem of access to justice, not of having procedures such as these, with kilometric rules, while we all know, at least who has dealt with the process, that the rules are simpler and more linear and can be effective. Here we have procedures that not only will not have followed, but that if they have done so will only help to make the lives of citizens more difficult and to prevent what is needed by this country, that is, that those who have few or no protection are protected! You want to get away from the trial who needs it most, reserving the civil trial, that of the classrooms, with the judges and lawyers, only to those who can afford it. That is not what the citizens are asking for! The first measure to be taken for civil justice was the total abolition of the unified contribution, not its further increase that is foreseen in this measure! [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] This is what citizens ask for, but it is not what the Government is oriented towards, which is increasingly characterized as the Government of the few who have access to all privileges, and in this country even justice is becoming a privilege. This is also stated by the title of the decree-law: "dejurisdictionalization" (dejury); this is Renzi's idea of justice: to deprive citizens of a constitutionally guaranteed right. But look at the fact that there is not only our Constitution, there is also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which provides that every man or woman in this land has the right to go before a judge and you, with these measures, are preventing it. That is what you are doing, and you are doing it in the most barbaric way: preventing even the debate in these classrooms. It is then up to us to remember, because we have the memory and know the history, who is who felt the incarnation of the spirit of his own people. There was in Europe, in the twentieth century, one who, according to him, embodied the spirit of his people and what he thought was law, and his Parliament ratified this principle after the fire of the Reichstag in Germany: it was Hitler, who advanced with decrees because what he thought embodied the spirit of his people and the law. Are we facing this again, colleagues? We find ourselves only one man in command, who humiliates us and thinks that what you say, majority or opposition does not matter, in these classrooms is worth nothing and only his unique thought is worth? Because this means an amendment thrown there on the last day with the imposition of the question of trust, moreover on a decree-law that concerns a matter that would have required months of deepening and not we say so but the lovers of the matter. There's a guy who thinks for everyone, you're useless. That's what he's telling you. We shall vote in favour of this measure. We would have voted against even without the question of trust because this is not the way, barbaric and uncivilized, to deal with such serious problems. We must also say, ladies and gentlemen, that all this is the responsibility of those in these classrooms who bow their heads in order to move forward, because it is increasingly clear to everyone what is happening here: in order to move forward, as it is, the majority of Renzi is ready to vote on any abomination! But there are also other responsibilities, which are clear, clear and crystal clear because they are out of these classrooms and are on the highest hill of this city! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What allows this abomination is the President of the Republic, who could not pass a decree of this kind and who in the face of such a thing, in the face of a question of trust placed on the reform of the civil process, had to call the President of the Council, because this is the function of the President of the Republic: to protect our Constitutional Charter from those who want to tear it apart and want to tear it apart. It does not: it will have to answer, we hope not only in history. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u35	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u36	Mr President, the reform of civil justice is an ancient challenge, a challenge with which this country has tried several times to try, although most of the time they have been weak attempts with results completely equal to zero. On the contrary, as soon as the country asked for a reform of civil justice, politics gave the worst of itself, divided itself and failed to make a qualitative leap in design and then, as has often happened, in the face of the path of reforms it withdrew in good order. That's why we need to change the pace. The reform of civil justice is a great challenge, a real priority, and this great challenge, which must become a real priority, needs a Parliament capable of evaluating, agreeing and deciding. The work we have done in the Commission has taken this step. The ancient rite for which, in the face of a proposal for a reform of civil justice, there was no discussion, there was a lengthening of the stock and then there was no change to the definition of choices and rules. On the other hand, in the Commission, justice has been discussed, even animated, solutions have been found, the decree has been improved and therefore the challenge of civil justice reform has been accepted. The reform of civil justice, ladies and gentlemen, calls into question a fundamental issue which we face every time Parliament is called upon to deal with major reforms, so-called structural or system reforms. This question relates to the way in which the crisis is dealt with. There is a conservative idea that the crisis has arrived for reasons outside our country. We must therefore stand still and do not change anything because even this terrible and structural crisis will pass and, in the end, without changing, our country will be able to resume its path. On the contrary, in times of globalization it is thought that the energy to make our country return must come from the outside, from the resumption of the international expansion cycle of the economy. Colleagues, if the country remains as it is, it will not emerge from the crisis. If he stays in his basic system, not only will he not come out of the crisis, but he will fall into ruins! That is why, even in the reform of civil justice, a progressive idea of the crisis must prevail, so that, if there is the crisis, one changes, indeed, even uses it to make those reforms so profound that in the history of the country have never been made, because the crisis can become a resource and an opportunity to change. A progressive idea of the crisis must also go through justice, especially civil justice. In our country there is a recourse to civil justice that has no equal between those advanced and this for it constitutes a huge burden. Yesterday the Minister recalled that in Germany the recourse to civil justice is one third lower than that of our country, although in presence of 20 million more inhabitants. Several times the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, recalled that civil justice needs a new look and a new culture, which tries in a correct and serious way to get out of the traditional canons with which it has always been thought of, at times when everything must be poured in front of the judge, there must not be a filter that discourages the litigiosity present in our country, there must be no rites, no new solutions or organizational models, in short, there must not be a change of civil justice. As has been said by the speeches we have heard in this House, it is clear that this decree concerns one aspect of the reform of civil justice, that is the backwardness, that is the public debt in it that prevents the hand of reforms and prevents them from deploying all their energies. That is why it is important that the telematic process has finally taken its own path (later, but it has done so). We need to ask the government - by watching over it and pressing it - for the telematic process to become more and more a modern way of organizing civil justice. That is why it is important for the Minister to announce here that the recruitment of a thousand additional registry units and administrative staff will be unblocked in order to ensure that no reforms are undertaken in our justice model in the presence of a weakness, which is the absence of human resources. However, the challenge that we will face in the coming weeks on the key point of the reform of justice, namely the civil process, is even more important. It is a reform that, at first, will involve the House, and then arrive here in the Senate, where we will also have the opportunity to confront and enrich the Government's proposal, as we did during the examination of this decree-law in the Commission, with the contribution of all the parliamentary groups. When examining this text, in fact, amendments by all the parliamentary groups, including the opposition, were adopted in the Committee on Justice. We will therefore also discuss the reform of the civil process, because on this too we must leave behind the noble cultures that have always looked at it in a certain way. They are conservative cultures, no longer able to understand that the civil justice system must keep pace that other countries have been able to give for decades. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the factors that drives companies away from investment in Italy is precisely the delay in civil justice: this frightens and we must take note of it. These times can no longer be reconciled with those of globalization. Colleagues, average times of civil justice in Italy are about nine years. If we were to go on a reform path that would bring civil justice to five years, we could certainly boast of the fine result and acknowledge that we were good: in particular, we could say how good the government and Parliament were in reducing the so unbearable times of civil justice by this measure. Yet, President, looking at this result with the eyes of globalization, we must admit that it is a ridiculous result, because, with the eyes of globalization, the times of civil justice should be two years, the overcoming of this limit relegates our country to marginality. That is why I believe we have worked well, Mr President. I am referring in particular to what has been done about arbitration, assisted negotiation and the timing of separation and consensual divorce. As has been pointed out several times by the rapporteur and Senator Filippin herself, we are dealing with the issues of separation and divorce by walking with the legs of common sharing and responsibility. In the Commission we have made sure that the weak side is better protected and that there is no will and no overlap. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the time was ripe to include in the same decree another great measure, already approved by the House almost unanimously, that is, on the short divorce. It has not been done, but we do not give up and ask for this House to speak on this, because it cannot escape the fact that a branch of Parliament has approved the short divorce. This House must therefore have the courage to face and decide in respect of such a serious and modern expectation in our country. Colleagues, on this we will be able to continue to confront each other and we will push those who are conservative, beyond the fact that they are center-right or centre-left, because the challenge of reforms must concern the whole of politics. To those who have a progressive vision of the reforms we will ask for planning, rigour and balance, but we must go ahead and with this decree with respect to the backward we open new ways and take a step forward. [[Applause from Senator Cucca. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u37	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u40	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, we will vote firmly for this confidence in a Government engaged in a process of state administration at a very delicate time and, at the same time, on the structural reforms that this country needs to be able to emerge from the crisis and be up to the other European countries and to overcome the gap between us Italians, between us Italy system and the rest of Europe. There are, of course, general political reasons, but there are also, as Minister Orlando said yesterday, substantive reasons for this measure on which the question of trust is placed, which justify and explain our firm adherence to the proposal that was formulated by the Government itself. I believe that Parliament as such and, in particular, the Senate as such, should be invited to use different tones and ways in the confrontation between majority and opposition, between those who share the text that is presented to us and those who do not share it, because there are no maximum systems that are being called into question, nor grounds for balance or respect for universal values. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union has even been mentioned in relation to this measure. Honestly I see in the text under consideration the attempt - as Minister Orlando recalled yesterday - to lighten the burden on our civil justice, a great commitment to reduce the times, a re-evaluation of the role of the lawyer also in his function of conciliator between the parties, and not only of causidico that pushes and raises the customers in the direction of a solution at all costs before the judge. It is certainly part of a vision of justice reform that is absolutely necessary, especially the civil one - as Mr Lumia has just mentioned - but that is something else compared to the delegation law that really concerns the reform of the civil process in depth. It will return to Parliament's classrooms as a key element of the debate to provide tools for citizens and legal practitioners adapted to the time and need to respond to a question that continues to be too high. This should also lead all of us to make a cultural effort to convince citizens that there are other forms of justice and, at the same time, to ensure that our process succeeds, when necessary, in bringing justice. Therefore, there are profound reasons for merit in support of the confidence associated with the maxi amendment, which incorporates not only the spirit, but also the content of the debate held in the Commission, and which in any case has expressed itself in the individual articles. There is absolutely nothing going on here, because the parties' ability to address the judge also remains intact in such a delicate matter as the separation and cessation of the civil effects of the concordat marriage and the dissolution of civil marriage. It is therefore not the abjuration of a system which has found, by Law No 898 of 1970 and, even more so, by the reform of the family law of 1975 onward, a well-defined codification of the law of Italy. There are more opportunities for us to resolve disputes concerning the payment of sums, the movement of vehicles, family law, separation and divorces, but in limited cases; at the same time it is also left to other civil servants, who are not only those of the jurisdiction, to take note of the will of the parties. It was then provided - I was among those who were not absolutely convinced of this choice - and reinstated the obligation to report to the prosecutor of the Republic, to the prosecutor, but in the name of a greater guarantee precisely to keep connected the assisted negotiation and the procedures between the parties to a criterion of thirdness, control of the jurisdiction identified in the prosecutor to protect minors, to protect the weak parts of these agreements, to protect the respect of the mandatory norms that preside to our legal system. With regard to such a sensitive issue as that which comes down from Article 29 of the Constitution - that is, the family and its unity, the protection of the mandatory rules governing this fundamental institution of our civil coexistence - in the face of a scenario that maintains for citizens the possibility of turning to the judge, but also to different subjects such as the lawyer or the civil state officer, I do not see how we can evoke the change in constitutional principles, the loss of fundamental human rights, the alteration of the fundamental Charter of the rights of the European Union. I understand that everything is political and that, when you make politics, everything can be thrown into a caciara, but you cannot credit public opinion with such negative will even by its political opponents, because then the total delegitimization of the political opponent also leads to delegitimization of themselves. I therefore believe that we must make a great effort to reconstruct the reasons for a coexistence that certainly goes also through the harsh political confrontation and, sometimes, through the clash, but that can never lead to consider the President of the Council of Ministers, whoever it is, and the President of the Republic as they were painted by someone even today. We are about to address equally important and urgent issues - if you will allow me, even more important and urgent - in the same area of justice in the coming weeks. The short divorce was mentioned and I remember the defamation, the civil responsibility of the magistrates and the delegation law on the reform of the civil process. This is a framework of actions which aims to make our system more consistent with the general principles of law (and in this case also fundamental rights) than the measures I have mentioned, in the European context. This also responds to the complaints that have come to us from the external authorities, the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union, as well as to our need to give us an effective and efficient system alongside an economic and productive system that must restore competitiveness to the country system and put Italy back in step with the great countries, which is a country of 60 million people. I believe that we must be aware of the potential of a measure such as this, but also of its limitations and its absolute consistency with the fundamental need for civil justice, which is to do justice to citizens, but also to make economic and social relations effective and capable, in our daily lives, of responding to the needs of our lives. These are the reasons that lead us to vote in favour of the measure, to which are added more general reasons that lead us to reconfirm the confidence to a government to which certainly cannot be attributed the faults that have come from twenty years of bad government of this country. This government, with difficulty, is trying to put the country back on track, in step with the big ones and with the times and able to really respond to the needs of a country that must come out of the crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u43	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 132, as the title itself states, is aimed at the so-called legalisation of civil litigation, with the introduction of measures facilitating access to alternative means of resolving the dispute, before the introduction of the trial. We are therefore talking about an innovative measure in an area that needs to be addressed by assessing the objective of the whole measure, which is precisely that of simplifying the matter in civil proceedings. The Italian judicial backwardness, with its about five million trials at first instance and about 400,000 on appeal, is one of the major reasons for the weakness of the Italian institutional system and, in what is called competition between systems, certainly deserves an urgent first response. The most obvious novelty introduced, as we all know, is that it is intended to introduce provisions in order to allow, on the one hand, the reduction of civil litigation through the possibility of the transfer to arbitration of proceedings pending before the judicial authority; on the other hand, the promotion in the out-of-court proceedings of the new institute of the negotiation procedure assisted by a lawyer. The removal of the setback and the transfer of pending civil proceedings to arbitration shall provide for the right, at the joint request of the parties, to request and to promote an arbitration procedure, which shall be excluded for cases relating to unavailable rights and which do not concern particularly sensitive matters such as employment, social security or social assistance. With regard to the negotiation agreement assisted by lawyers - an extremely innovative and desired institution for several years - it is an agreement to resolve the dispute; it deals with any court which does not concern unavailable rights and must provide for an agreed time limit for the completion of the whole procedure. This innovation certainly opens up completely new paths, because it asks the lawyer for a new, different function. He is not the one who takes charge, embraces and supports one of the parties before a judge, but the one who is able, by professional competence, to prevent and resolve the conflict before he even incardinated before the judge. Of course, much has been debated and discussed in these hours and days, and much will still be discussed, about the vexed question of Articles 6 and 12. The measure, in respect of Articles 6 and 12, takes into account only consensual separations. I believe that this is a necessary point to stress, because misrepresented advertising has created some confusion on the subject. It concerns, therefore, cases in which the will of the parties regarding separation, cessation of the civil effects of marriage or divorce has already been formed responsibly. A system of judicial separations, therefore, that is not touched by the provision at all. However, the possibility of appealing to the court and following the procedures provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure remains always firm. As Minister Orlando recalled yesterday, there is the will to answer a question: where the activity of the jurisdiction is little more than an administrative act, is it necessary to remain before the jurisdiction, increasing the loads of the question? By introducing a series of cautions and elements that guarantee the full awareness of the parties, what is administrative is brought back to the administrative field, avoiding overloading the jurisdiction. Of course, more attention would have been desirable for a preliminary mediation supplement, so as to give the possibility to the subjects of a reflection and a deepening before proceeding to a step that inevitably leads to situations that are not pleasant, certainly not welcome. However more complex within the framework of the decree from the technical point of view, but fundamental for its practical aspects, is the part included in Chapter IV of the decree that we are going to approve, which aims at the acceleration of the process and the increase of the functionality of the civil process of cognition. The first is the system of compensation for expenditure, which, if there is mutual failure, may be partially or in full between the parties. Similarly, it is possible to compensate in part or in full for the costs of the proceedings in the event of a change in the question concerned or of a change in the case-law. A forecast, this one on the compensation of the expenses, that should discourage the daring quarrels. Very important to us then seems to be the part on the interest of moratori. We know that long times in some way favour the part that is wrong; today being before a judge is especially convenient to those who do not want to pay when they know they are wrong. The new forecasts seem to discourage this attitude. The issues of further importance in the decree lighten the burden of the courts and the novelties in the enforcement phase, with the acceleration and simplification of the enforcement procedure, thus guaranteeing certainty of the findings in the judgment and restoring credibility to the jurisdiction. One last question that I would like to mention, but not for the sake of newness, concerns the introduction of the possibility of the collection of evidence by the defenders; with due and caution, it would greatly lighten the burden of the judge's duties and thus the time of hearing as well as entrusting the lawyer with a function of responsibility and guarantee on the correctness of the procedure. It is clear that the measure that we are going to vote on shortly - and the Group for Italy will vote in favour of trust in the text - is nothing more than a first step, a first step, we can say, aimed at simplifying not only the procedure but also the amount of work, which then weighs so much in the economy. Before concluding my speech, I would like to thank all the members of the competent Commission and the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, who not only offered his willingness and expertise in the work that we can define as pre-political, but also his commitment to ensure that all the various voices could find a place and then have a reference within the text. I therefore renew, by the Per l'Italia Group, the confidence placed on the measure that will be voted on shortly. [[Applause from the PI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u46	Barani (GAL). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, our Group has some difficulty in voting in favour of this measure, starting with the title, which speaks of 'dejury'. Colleagues, we are here in the name and on behalf of the Italian people and therefore we must use the language of the people. Dear Undersecretary, there are few in Italy who can understand this term. Italy is not just made up of magistrates and lawyers, but it is made up of citizens who want to understand what the legislator does. Already from the term used it emerges that we do not speak the language of the people, but that of a narrow caste of elite, who does not want to make understand what it does. I have a 92-year-old mom who would say to me: "Speak as you eat, speak understandable language! We didn't raise you to use terms you don't understand. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, knows that I have tabled a number of amendments in the Commission, such as the one that brings the magistrates' holidays to 30 days, in order to bring them into line with all the other workers, also because of a matter of respect for the Constitution. The rule has been accepted and is contained in the maxi amendment, but there were many other contributions that we would have liked to make, in order to change once and for all the civil process, which is in fact uncivilized and is one of the most important elements of Italy's failure to develop and the lack of investment by foreigners. I have always said this and I will continue to say it: in 2013 Spain received over 40 billion euros of foreign investment and Italy received only 10 billion euros. The only reason that explains this is that we have a justice that for the civil trial has biblical times not to mention the criminal one. Yet there are also good judges, there are many who work seriously, against whom there are so many others who do not do so and who continue the trial indefinitely. In Italy there are five million pending trials, so we must note with regret that Italian justice holds a negative record compared to all other countries that are also our competitors. This is an irrefutable fact and not a political consideration, subject to interpretation, depending on how you think. On several occasions, our justice has received a number of calls from the European institutions. A reform of the whole system is therefore an urgent and no longer deferred necessity. How then could we do that? Well, that wasn't enough. I also proposed it in an amendment. It is necessary, as for all Italian workers, that also for judges, civil and criminal (I have already said that many are serious and work) the turnstiles, the stamping, so that you know how much they work, you know their commitment. It is not possible that a judge makes a judgment a year and deposits it not after the three canonical months but after a year without anyone taking action. Like all workers, judges should also be subjected to psychoattitudinal visits, for their interest, for the interest of justice, public health, Italy, because so we would do him a favor. That's what we should do. The magistrates are not something different from the others, they are the same as the others. Therefore, we must intervene especially with regard to the times, the lengths of civil processes, which involve a huge backwardness that results in financial damage at the moment when this state of affairs blocks or slows down investment, thus undermining the country's economy. It does not escape anyone that at the very moment that President Renzi had some courage there was immediately a warning. I can't say - I see Senator Lumia here on the phone - what kind of warning it is. However, at the very moment when the President of the Council spoke on such a sensitive subject, he was immediately told that they would start to touch his family, and began with his father in Genoa. It is therefore clear that a reform of justice, both civil and criminal, is a requirement to be translated into action as soon as possible. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge the Government and Minister Orlando that they have been able to take an important opportunity to intervene in a key sector of the country system. At the same time, however, we note - and we cannot accept - a certain lack of courage that can be seen in the legislative interventions included in the decree, which appear more as the result of mediation between all the parties concerned, of blackmail immediately, dictated by a real reformative will without whether or not. That is why I believe that this decree does not represent a genuine reform. This is an attempt, because it does not intervene with the right incisiveness to modify a sector that is fundamental to the everyday life of citizens and businesses. There have been interventions that are actually palliative. I'm a doctor and I know that a palliative cure doesn't heal, it doesn't intervene at the root on the disease, but it leaves cancer. And cancer exists, it's metastatizing the country, leading it to default. These are interventions that do not contribute to a profound impact on civil justice in order to optimize the sector, its time, its productivity with incisive measures whose effects would be immediately ascertainable. I am aware of the difficulties that have been encountered in taking action on civil justice. Just think of the right pressures on the subject of the vacation of the magistrates, which risked creating chaos, with headlines page by page in certain newspapers, which spoke of punitive measures for the magistrates. They're workers like everyone else. Many of them commit themselves and do even more than their working hours, but many try to make politics within the judiciary. And we have seen many, but I am not referring to the Undersecretary here present but to others: from Palermo to Abruzzo until arriving in Piedmont and Lombardy. I therefore regret that the decree does not provide for measures to constantly verify the profitability of the work of those involved in the field of justice, of all those involved. Alternative measures to the judgment are a good solution in terms of streamlining and speeding up civil justice, but this does not mean that the courts will no longer celebrate the debates. I therefore believe that it would have been useful to provide for a system for assessing the performance of judges, as is the case for all civil servants. This is a concept that I will always point out. In fact, we must put ourselves in the perspective of following and evaluating their productivity, otherwise we will not be able to solve anything. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that something could and should have been done to impose a sort of constant check on the presence of magistrates in their offices and in the courts. Today almost all civil servants must use badges whenever they enter or leave the workplace, of course the magistrates should also do so. With regard to separations and divorces, who has a flagship like I have, who has a culture like mine (among other things, in yesterday's sitting I was smiling at the President of the Council when he said 'we socialists': I wanted to throw something in his head because he socialist never was!) He can only agree. We also agree that a short divorce should be foreseen as soon as possible, as we agree that a reform of civil justice should finally be launched. Senator Susta just recalled the civil responsibility of the magistrates. I am one of those 20 million sovereign Italians who spoke through a referendum and invited Parliament to provide for the civil responsibility of the magistrates. In my view, for the damage that the magistrates do when they ruin industries, families and people, it is not only possible to pay from a financial point of view; perhaps it would be appropriate to put them in the public square to bear a public charge as well as others. That was the will of the sovereign people and, therefore, I believe that we must have more courage in reforming justice. Today, almost all of the Group to which I belong will not vote for confidence. We, however, are a highly democratic group and of course we leave those who believe that they can vote for it. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u49	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the emergency is the basic element of this historic and political phase in Italy, I am referring to economic, social, environmental and civil and criminal justice emergencies. In emergency situations it is difficult to go for the subtle. We must be quick, there is no time for distinctions, everyone must assume his responsibilities. Today, the government, putting the question of trust in the reform of the civil process, assumes its responsibilities and puts its face on it. Therefore, even with the possible perplexities that we have with respect to the text, in front of the Government that - I repeat - puts us face, the Group For the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote firmly on the confidence, aware of the complexity of the matter and the need to act in the action of reform with one hand. Such problems cannot be faced with multiple hands, so everyone puts his piece, his point of view, his setting and his optics. We trust this Government; we appreciate the main commitment of the Executive and the Minister of Justice, which is to recover the justice denied by time: I am referring to the absolutely unacceptable delay that our judicial system, particularly in the field of civil justice but not only, has accumulated. We want justice to be done, at least from a temporal point of view. The issue of trust has not allowed us to examine all the issues we would have liked to address. We take, however, some positive elements, such as the acceleration of the procedure, some simplifications, the increase in the productivity of the protagonists (i.e. judges and lawyers), in favour of a recovery of the overall time of the judicial action. We also appreciate the courage with which some sensitive questions concerning magistrates begin to be addressed. Of course, Mr Undersecretary, we are puzzled (in this sense the message is also addressed to the Minister absent for reasons of office) by the spot intervention on judicial geography in relation to the judge of peace in Ostia and Barra, not because we do not think that we should intervene in these two situations too; but let us record the fact that in this matter there are still, Mr Undersecretary, children and stepchildren: in fact, other equally serious situations should have been dealt with at the same time. During the examination of the draft law to convert the decree-law into the Commission we proposed an amendment which would allow the Government to deal with the problem as a whole, which could not be done at other times. But our amendment has been declared inadmissible. Well, we also expect more consistency from the presidency of the Senate. I have returned to this issue several times. Laws and regulations cannot be used according to convenience! They must be used in relation to the written substance. I would therefore like to make a formal point of order, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, that the alternative use of the rule should be abolished in absolute terms. Otherwise we open the window (not only the window, but also the doors) to behaviours that in crucial stages of democracy can be strongly decisive compared to the destinies not only of the individual subject, but of the parliamentary institutions. As I said, other situations would need a timely response. I am referring to the irresponsible closure of the courts of Rossano and Sala Consilina and the absolutely unjustified combinations. But not only that. The Senate Justice Commission has already taken a united and precise stance on this issue. We expect a timely response because these penalties particularly affect citizens and make justice a factor strongly influenced by the economic capacities of the protagonists, victims and culprits, those who have rights and those who have harmed them. Guarantees must be given by ensuring equal treatment as fair as possible between rich and poor, powerful and weak. We rely on the Minister's commitment in a broader intervention that corrects this serious situation and, at the same time, we show the will to make a serious contribution, free from biases, corporate visions and localistic visions, that addresses the issues of justice in our country with the maximum openness and responsibility towards the expectations of citizens. With this wish I confirm the vote of confidence of the Group For the Autonomies and we hope that the future will need less emergencies and more constant commitments over time. [[Applause from Senators Laniece and Tonini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u52	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, as we have already said in the general debate, we are very critical of this measure. Actually, more than what he says, what he doesn't say. We hope that there will be a true reform of justice and we continue to insist, in particular reminding the President of the Council, that this is not the reform of justice: it is a measure which, as the Minister himself said, was intended only to make a small reclamation (this is the term used), that is, to make a partial intervention on the problem of justice. A credit must surely be recognized. We have dealt many times with issues relating to criminal law and the code of criminal procedure with results, especially with regard to the last year and a half, in our opinion absolutely disastrous, since we have, indeed, launched a series of measures empty prisons that do not involve a reform of the justice, but only the buffering of the problem of the overcrowding prison. Well, now let's go talk about another overcrowding, that of civil causes. A problem that afflicts our justice in such an endemic way that, in fact, we too do not know how to deal with it and with what solutions. We are sadly at the last places in Europe for the level of justice and, as we have already said, this surprises us most precisely because we are in Italy, the country that has seen the birth of the right. We know, in fact, that the principles of law that we are now using have been formed more than 2,000 years ago, and in what should be the cradle for lawyers and doctors in law unfortunately came a time when trials and advocacy are in absolute crisis. This is a serious crisis, ladies and gentlemen, because justice is called so precisely because it is so and when a rule provides for certain rights, these must be protected and to do so, even if everyone has the conscience to operate well, the trial and the magistrates are needed, because unfortunately conflicts arise and the solution of the dispute is needed. If there is no justice, law becomes a source of anarchy, because those who pursue the profession of lawyer, like me, are often faced with people who are firmly convinced of their positions and it is not easy to determine what is right and what is wrong. If there is no justice, we find it difficult to create a civil society. We are now faced with this measure, which is portrayed as a reform of justice, in which few issues are actually addressed. Above all, if we look at the title of the decree-law and what should be its objective, that is to overcome the problem of the backwardness of the judicial burden in the civil sector, solutions are being prepared that we fear cannot have an effective effect on the reduction of the backwardness. For example, institutions such as assisted negotiation are proposed as remedies and alternative institutions, while we remember that in our system there is already medium-conciliation, an institution that already raises great doubts about how it has been structured, how the work is carried out and how it is carried out. The decree-law therefore proposes this institution that already exists, as it speaks of the arbitration that already exists and of the summary procedure, which already exists. One is surprised, then, and one wonders what true innovations can be. Conciliation, however, is not only a result of the imposition of law but is a culture, a culture which is difficult to teach and which will have to spread among all those involved in the law. 12.04 p.m. (Follows STEFANI). But let's go back to the text. In the Justice Commission we have dealt with a number of really important issues in depth, issues on which there has been a high-level discussion, and not to acknowledge the merits that we do not have but because serious reflections have taken place on the institutions. Now, of course, when we tell our fellow citizens that separations and divorces can be done before civil status officers or even by a lawyer, perhaps such a solution could also be well accepted, but the problem is that these institutions are difficult to fit into law. We have some concerns about this because talking about the right is not talking about butterflies: the right is a very serious thing. If we start to turn the institutions upside down, we really risk a drift because once we start, we don't know where we're going. We have also withdrawn a number of amendments and proposed a number of sub-amendments precisely because, by referring the matter back to the House, it was important to get here and talk publicly about what we are discussing. It is important to get these issues out of the Commission. Instead, the debate was suppressed, sedated, eliminated by the vote of confidence. Yet there were many issues to be resolved, such as family mediation, or the problem of the incentive for arbitration and assisted negotiation that, as was said, are already existing institutions: there is already medium-conciliation on some subjects and, in any case, in general, conciliation already exists in our system. However, a good incentive was needed and we in the North League had tabled amendments to that effect. These have also been considered uncovered and therefore not negotiable, while the Minister now tells us that we will talk about it when we face the law of stability. Why always postpone, continuously to the future when a topic should be fully addressed? Because it used the decree-law that, with its limited time, prevented to deepen many issues. We have also talked about other issues, for example the possibility that through assisted negotiation real estate transfers will be made with an authenticated subscription from the same lawyers. This issue has been put aside in hopes of being able to deal with it in this House and we have not done so. Amendments of a different nature have also been tabled: for example, there has been talk of the problem of the judicial burden and we in the North League have tabled some amendments to increase the competence of the peace judges, to share the work. This too has not been dealt with. Likewise, no other topic has been addressed and we are surprised that last night the text of the Government arrived which provides for interventions on two offices of judge of peace: Ostia and Barra. How is it that the amendment tabled by the North League, where the possibility of revising the problem of the reform of judicial geography, was not dealt with while we find the same issue in the final measure? This is regrettable because the arrears, difficulties, delays are probably due, in some fora, also to the upheaval that followed the reform of judicial geography. We had a chance to deal with the problem but it was not done. So, in the end, the vote of the Northern League Group can only be negative, deeply and firmly negative. We cannot ask for confidence in a measure that does not analyze, verify and overcome the real problems that exist. You cannot ask for confidence by thinking that this is just a small piece, the first piece, that the true reform of justice will come later and that incentives will be foreseen but in the future. We still say that the reform of justice must be done in a very serious, thorough and wide-ranging debate. There are the problem of staffing, the problem of the type of civil process and a general and systematic problem that must be addressed decisively. I conclude by saying that we cannot really think that we are in a moment of crisis which affects all sectors and therefore this too. Let's get to it and think about it seriously. We at the North League are at your disposal. We are not here to make a pure and simple opposition, but a truly constructive opposition in this area. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u55	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, as we are listening to during these hours, this decree-law aims to reduce the burden of civil justice, on the one hand by subtracting certain matters from the court's knowledge and by implementing procedures for the definition of disputes other than judicial ones, on the other by introducing a series of deflagrant measures aimed at simplifying judicial procedures. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We have already raised the issue of the lack of the requirements of necessity and urgency - we did so a few days ago - so as to justify the intervention of the Commission in a matter in which, in our view, the ordinary legislator's activity would be fundamental. More importantly, the reform of justice would require as much shared legislative activity as possible, which should not be quotad in the times and in the ways dictated by the government's agenda. The measures introduced by the Decree-Law do not show, in our opinion, this need for speed which would justify its origin and what the profiles of necessity and urgency might be. The fact that we have put the question of trust for the umpteenth time, the 23rd in a few months, colleagues (one a week, I think we are faced with a kind of record in republican history), clearly makes the picture from this point of view even more negative. On the substance of the Commission's choices, we would also like to add that the measure contains a number of measures which, despite the declarations of principle, are, however, not suitable to achieve the intended objectives. The choice to favour out-of-court dispute settlement procedures is, in our view, ineffective, if not, in some cases, even unfavorable. The proposal to transfer disputes, even those in progress, in arbitration, will not have the desired effect, as this procedure is still based on the free determination of the parties and therefore, abstractly, no advantage could be determined precisely in those terms which are called for. The same principle applies also to assisted negotiation, as a simplification instrument aimed at achieving a conciliatory agreement which, on the one hand, actually has a deflagrant effect on litigation and, on the other hand, allows for an out-of-court enforcement order. In this case too, there are many doubts and, moreover, it is not even clear what relations with the existing mediation can be in practice. In addition, the provision for certain subjects of the institution of assisted negotiation as a procedural condition further aggravates civil litigation, also introducing a mandatory preliminary passage with related expenses for citizens. It could also be argued that the choice of entrusting the new procedure to the only lawyer could also raise doubts of partiality: unlike the mediation procedure, in the case of assisted negotiation, there would be no super partisan body capable of guaranteeing fair protection to the parties. In short, the idea of civil justice that emerges from the framework of the intervention of the Government puts its side, in our opinion, to a danger, which is exactly the great theme of the unequal treatment for citizens resulting from the different economic conditions of the same. It would have been right, in our view, for there to be much more attention and for there to be a wider debate and a wider debate between us. Despite the critical issues that we are highlighting, we do not want to seem prejudiced by the implementation of arbitration and assisted negotiation institutions (which already exist within the legal system), but we would like to note the serious shortcomings in the substance and also, on these aspects, record some points that, in our opinion, will make impossible the type of path chosen. Of course, as always, it will then be time and exercise to prove the validity of this proposal. We believe that it is necessary, first of all, to make it convenient for the citizen both to transfer the pending cases in favour of the arbitration procedure and the so-called negotiation assisted by an attorney. This is for two purposes: firstly, to prevent the costs incurred by the administration of justice from being ultimately discharged to the private sector; secondly, to prevent the risk of the declared destructive function of the new instruments being thwarted. In order to promote arbitration proceedings and negotiation assisted by lawyers, we had proposed to provide for appropriate tax incentives and to restore a situation of substantial equality between the mediation instrument and the new negotiation agreement put to the lawyers. We had in fact proposed an amendment to Article 13 which - in view of the rigidity introduced by the decree, which seeks to avoid any possibility of compensation for expenses - allowed the judge to compensate for the costs in view of the particular conditions of one of the parties. In any case, in our view, the losing party cannot be ordered to pay the costs and fees if it has been exempt from the unified contribution due to income: it was, in short, a formulation which, in our intentions, wanted first of all to protect the workers who are suing the company and which, obviously, for trivial and very simple reasons, are not in a position of equal means. This, in our view, is a very, very serious issue. Articles 6 and 12 also raise some reservations, about which much has been said both in this House and in the Commission. In this case we refer to the procedures of assisted negotiation or dissolution before the civil state officer, in the proceedings of personal separation. Also the CSM has emphasized some aspects of criticality, related to the economicity, the effectiveness and the timeliness of the fulfillments, and even to the functionality of the judicial offices. This is a series of comments that we share: we strongly and strongly supported the proposed law approved by the Chamber of Deputies on short divorce, on which we have obviously voted in favour and which we would also have supported here in the Senate. With this decree, in fact, it is as if we were moving from a short divorce to a lightning one. Of course, we are not opposed to this, not least because it would only happen in the case of a free consensual and optional choice. There is, however, a great "ma" which is a matter of great concern to us: despite this precaution, in our opinion, the children and the weak spouse are not sufficiently protected by the prediction that has been imagined. This is, in our view, a very important issue, on which it would have been much more appropriate to think more deeply. Of course, we know that the Commission has introduced a number of elements: it is possible today to use assisted negotiation even in the presence of minor children, disabled or not self-sufficient, after transmission to the prosecutor of the Republic, who checks whether the agreement is in the interests of children. Despite the changes made in the Commission, however, there remains once again an element of fundamental concern: why should such a complex and sensitive matter - which should be the classic subject on which Parliament is discussing in a non-ideological way, but in order to pursue shared convictions - be delegated to the urgent decree? This is a very serious question for us. Even in the light of these reasons and in the light of these problems, we believe that it would have been much wiser to delete Articles 6 and 12 of the decree to deal with this debate with the ordinary instruments of parliamentary debate and outside the pressure imposed by the decree-law, taking into account also the work that Parliament is doing on the serious issue and in our view very welcome of the short divorce. Much better it would have been to abandon the scheme of the decree law and to start a real wide confrontation with all the operators of justice for an organic and finally structural revision of civil justice. Therefore, the reasons for our dissent are of this kind, they are the ones I have stated. Of course, we will not vote for confidence even for political reasons, because in this way we express our strong opposition to the national government. But, precisely, in the specific case, our failure to vote for trust is not only conditioned to a more general political vision than our role of opposition to the Renzi Government, but is also due to a series of very serious critical issues, which we want to highlight, regarding the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u58	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, indeed, we in the New Right Centre have not jumped with joy in dealing with issues not directly related to the problem of arrears, which has also been dealt with effectively in this decree. I am referring in particular to the issue (on which I shall refer), which has seen us very closely involved, of introducing new rules into the legal system concerning separations, divorces and, therefore, very important matters which, in our opinion, deserved greater in-depth consideration in the Commission, in a process of ordinary legislation, rather than the use of a decree-law. I must, however, sincerely acknowledge the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, and the Minister, who, however, had a discussion on these matters. I say immediately to those who, like us, had doubts about the instrument of the decree-law, that they themselves in a contradictory way - it is the first thing we claim - wanted to introduce directly by decree-law also the so-called short divorce: I am talking about Forza Italia and the 5 Star Movement which, while carrying out some considerations on the ineffectiveness of the instrument of the decree-law, have then attempted - and we have blocked the attempt also with our action - to introduce into the present one a matter, subject of discussion in the Commission, as important as the time of three years to be reduced between separation and divorce. In this measure I have found at least seven points of balance, which I have marked in order to be clear and to convey to the outside world the activity of Parliament and what I believe has been a fairly satisfactory balance achieved in this area. Meanwhile, for the umpteenth time, let us remind those who listen to us, to civil society, that we are talking about subjects who want consensually to separate or divorce. In this case there is no conflict: we are faced with people who agree to achieve a certain result. The theme of conflict is, therefore, outside the door. And the first thing that has been said is that, although they agree, those subjects must obtain at least one lawyer each, and precisely because of the concerns raised by some colleagues - finally SEL's senator - that the weak side must be protected. We had him well in mind. Especially in the presence of children, it is necessary for the parties to be assisted by at least one lawyer in part, as we have written. But not only that. Our concern was the fact, whether or not there were children, that lawyers were not enough but that a third-party court was also needed to verify the legality of the case. The solution found is as follows: in case there are no children, it is the prosecutor of the Republic who checks the legal conditions of what happens; in case instead there are children, if the prosecutor of the Republic finds something wrong, he must pass it all on to the court, which will then hear the parties with their appearance and, therefore, in the presence of judicial guarantees. This is something we have found satisfactory. If we then add - and we find in the maxi amendment these aspects on which we have worked - the concept of conciliation (the lawyers in the agreement tried to reconcile the parties) and of family mediation (the lawyers informed the parties of the possibility to experience it) and not only (it has also been said that the lawyers informed the parties of the importance for the child to spend adequate time with each of the parents), we have certainly put into law a number of institutions and concerns, as I also said during the general discussion. I say to all my colleagues, then, to take into account the fact that usually, after the divorce, begins - alas - an ordeal of oppositions for couples with children and judicial quarrels, because divorce is not the disease that solves family crises: unfortunately, it is, many times, the starting point of a conflict that lasts a lifetime. Therefore, conciliation, mediation and the fact that things are not rushing into a permanent pathological situation, but rather, solving family crises, are absolutely positive aspects. In fact, it is not that divorce factories solve the problem of social cohesion. In our opinion, in these first four things introduced, we have achieved, in this very delicate matter, a balance, which implies, for couples who already give their consent, that they do not have defatic procedures (and also excessive expenses, if you want), as well as the possibility of making procedures more streamlined, thus achieving the objective of the decree-law, which is to dispose of arrears. I have to say that Article 12 is somewhat contradictory to Article 6. This must be said, because if in Article 6 we have introduced all these precautions, in 12 it is true that we speak, in paragraph 1. Only and exclusively of couples without children, however, it was intended that the two should just show up before the civil state officer and declare that they had separated or divorced. Also in this case we have intervened, first of all by establishing that, here too, we need an indication of the optional assistance of a lawyer; and then they have made a parallel with the procedures that lead two people to marry civilly, in which interested persons cannot appear before the mayor and say they want to marry: first they must make publications and the mayor must verify the aspect of legality before marrying two people (for example, that one of them is not bigamo, that there is no other marriage in progress or that there is no minor who cannot marry). Then, since it is the mayor who celebrates the marriage, we wrote that first, the application must be made not before the civil state officer but before the mayor. And the mayor does not have to say to him: well, you have come and now I accept your question; the amendment that has passed stipulates that the mayor invites the two parties to appear before him no sooner than thirty days after receiving the application for confirmation of the agreement. Therefore, there is a moment of reflection and, if you want, possibly, of rethinking, which also gives the mayor the opportunity to check whether there were the same conditions of legality that led the mayor himself, or who for him, to celebrate the marriage. Here too we have included a number of institutions which, in some way, make the consensual will of the spouses verifiable by a public authority, which is, in this case, the mayor. Having said that, the combination of the work we have done in the Commission and the amendments that have been tabled, discussed and all included in the maxi amendment does not lead to the best possible result, because this matter is closely linked to the time of the so-called short divorce. It is clear that only at the end of the discussion which will continue in the Commission on this matter will we see whether the institution will have had, in its entirety and complexity, a satisfactory solution. Nevertheless, in view of the improvements made by the Decree-Law in relation to the way it had entered the Commission, the rapporteur's commitment and - I say this again - the Minister's access to our requests, the New Right Centre Group will vote for confidence in this measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u61	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, with regard to the question of trust which, for the umpteenth time, has been on the subject of the conversion of a decree-law, we have no more words. I abstain from any consideration so as not to risk being redundant compared to what has also been said today for the twenty-first, twenty-first or twenty-second time (we have lost count) with reference to the abuse of the constitutional institution of trust. Again, I will not dwell on the strong doubts (so to speak) about the technique of the decree of urgency for procedural reforms in the area of justice which, besides being, indeed, of dubious constitutionality, are certainly unsatisfactory from a systematic point of view, as yet another unreasoned intervention that risks not being properly implanted in the whole system. When we read the title of the decree-law, in the matter of dejurisdictionalization and definition of civil backwardness, we placed ourselves, as usually happens to us, in a favourable and pragmatic way in the evaluation of the measures that the Government wanted to take to solve the long-standing problem of the length of proceedings and the stratospheric number of pending cases that characterizes our country. Of course, we would have expected to see the necessary measures to really resolve the problem of civil justice; the same measures that the judicial and lawyer associations have reported to us in the Justice Commission and which they have certainly also represented to the Minister. I am referring to the strengthening and recruitment of judges and judges and to the adjustment of the administrative staff's roles, in view of the notorious shortage of staff of 8,000. However, even if we want to understand the notorious difficulties of the state budget for the recruitment of such a significant number of public employees and trusting that the recruitment of 1,000 new employees announced by the Minister becomes a reality, it seems to us that another opportunity lost in this case by the Government is the lack of typicalization of the so-called best practices, already used in numerous courts and already known (at least by us in the Commission Justice), also resorting very banally to the procedural tools already present in the legal order, such as the personal appearance of the parties aimed at conciliation before the judge (provided for by the current Article 185 of the Code of Civil Procedure). This instrument could be strengthened, i.e. the possibility, already provided for in the Code, for the judge to carry out that conciliatory task at the beginning, perhaps with some incentive measure. It wasn't like that. So let's face the institutions that the government wants to introduce. Arbitration would have the function of decreasing the number of cases pending at first and second instance; it should therefore favour the non-judicial way of defining pending cases. It is the first instrument that should affect to solve one of the problems. In our view, this institution, as it has been formulated and despite the improvements we have succeeded in bringing justice to the Commission, is doomed to failure - we fear - or in any case to poor use, in the absence of significant tax and tax benefits that can facilitate and facilitate its use. We and other political groups have tabled amendments which proposed that the cost of the referee or of the referees, perhaps in the tax return for the following year, be reduced by tax deductions. It was proposed, as an alternative, to reimburse the parties who voluntarily subscribe to arbitration, in order to ensure that the unified contributions paid up to that time could be returned to them for disturbing the machinery of justice. None of this has happened. However, financial cover could have been found; we had also materially indicated it in our amendments. This was not wanted and we believe that this, beyond all good intentions, will not favour this institution, despite the improvements that we have managed to make in the Commission, such as the possibility that the parties can jointly appoint a single referee instead of a college, even if within the limit of the causes of value up to EUR 100,000. 12:34 a.m. (Follow BUCCARELLA). We considered it appropriate to establish the incompatibility of the role of referee and, at the same time, of adviser to the bar, since the referees will be taken voluntarily or at the disposal of the president of the board of the order from the list of lawyers who have made themselves available, with at least five years of seniority of registration to the register and without disciplinary sanctions. All this will not serve, in our way of seeing (then time will give us right or wrong), the success of the institute and therefore the decrease of the lawsuits now pending in Italy. Lawyer-assisted negotiation should also serve to prevent new causes from arising, which is said in a very simple way. The parties, in agreement, through their lawyers could or should seek a conciliatory agreement - in some cases this would be a mandatory measure, before they could bring proceedings to civil justice - the content of which is attached to the will of the parties. In this case, too, the same criticisms that we have made about arbitration regarding the absence of tax and tax facilitation apply: for example, the simple exemption from the registration fee of the agreement, which would have a substantial nature of a judgment, has not been accepted. We therefore believe that, in this way, it is difficult to promote the application of the institute. A little scandalous to us is the provision that prevents legal aid from being applied in favour of the poor, for citizens who have the income conditions currently laid down by law: we are talking about a taxable income of about 11,000 euros per year. In the case of assisted negotiation, it has been clearly provided that, if the citizen turns to the lawyer to try to settle a case insurgent in advance, attesting that he fulfils the requirements to be admitted to the benefit of legal aid (this means that he would not pay the lawyer and the stamps), the lawyer must work free of charge and should even give all the information to his own citizen client in order to activate such procedure, which prevents him from being paid. It really seems a little unreasonable, irrational, and it also has a humorous cut. We are told that there would be a lack of budgetary cover, but it is clear that there would be no further disbursement for the State, because the parties to that potential cause to be resolved in the context of assisted negotiation, who are in a position to be eligible for benefit, would be the same as those who would ask to avail themselves of the same institution in a judicial dispute, at the same expense. However, this possibility is not expected, even if expenditure is not invariable. Here too, small improvements have been made: the terms of the assisted negotiation have passed to three months, which can be extended to four months, and we have excluded the definition of working relations issues from the availability of the parties and their lawyers, but this is not enough. Another article that has attracted the attention of the work and speeches heard in general debate is Article 12, which provides for the possibility that separations and divorces may be concluded by consensus, in agreement between the parties, before the civil state officer. [[The microphone light starts to flash.]] Mr President, perhaps it is I who have no idea of the weather, but I see my microphone flashing already.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u62	You've got a minute left, Senator Buccarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u63	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Here there is an opposition to the role attributed to the institution of the civil state officer, which can replace without any kind of judicial review, even only by the prosecutor of the Republic, on the legitimacy of the agreements established by the parties. Psychologically or economically weaker mates may likely succumb to their rights as soon as the strongest mate forces them in one way or another to go before the civil state officer. The remedy found by the government, with the thirty days that must begin from the request to the appearance of the parties before the judicial officer, paradoxically could even make the situation worse, because the hypothetical husband who beats his wife - excuse me if I use these terms - to force her to go to the judicial officer, will be forced to do it twice after at least thirty days. This is not good: the optional nature of legal assistance is not good, and this institution will only be able to do damage. The demagogic use of the suspension of the working terms and the reduction of the vacation of the magistrates made by the President of the Council Renzi - let us work more lawyers and magistrates and finally the civil trials will be faster and the sentences will arrive sooner - is a clear demagogic measure, that those who have a minimum of knowledge of the reality of the classrooms of the courts succeed in unveiling in all its madness and injustice, also in the light of the right of defence for the citizens, who see also limiting the terms in order to succeed in defending their rights under Article 24 of the Constitution. It is a violation of the right to leave for those who work in the field of justice, lawyers and magistrates. And all this will happen while in the early days of September the gates will continue to remain empty. [[Recalls of the President]] On the expropriations, I would like to stigmatize, in the last minute I have left...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u64	No, tempus fugit. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out something that I fear we will hear about when the decree will be converted into law if it comes to an end. I am referring to the excessively high powers of judicial officers in the event of foreclosures of property to third parties, as well as what creditors will have to bear in the event that the foreclosures will have an extremely low value but the actuated credit is relevant. I'll give you an example. I have a million credit, because I've made years of lawsuits to get a sentence, I foreclose Senator Martelli and the court officer only track down his 1987 Panda. The judge considers that with the foreclosure of that Panda cannot be considered satisfied my credit and on the basis of this decree liquid, with 5.375 euros, the judicial officer who, even with the telematic research, carried out the foreclosure of the Panda of Senator Martelli. At this point the creditor does not take a euro, pays 5.375 euros to the judicial officer, greets the lawyer and finally moves to a civil country. Before all the other Italians follow this citizen, who has dealt with this justice, I announce that my Group will vote against the confidence placed on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u65	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u66	Senator Martelli and his Panda thank you for getting this advertisement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u69	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, although the Group of the European Forza Italia had immediately expressed a number of problems in terms of dubious constitutionality, a messy and uncoordinated measure with regard to the general principles of the law, the civil code, the law on divorce and civil procedure, it had hoped, despite all this, for dialogue and had prepared a number of amendments to this end. Take note, not the opposition's amendments to oppose, but amendments that made the text consistent, to the point that some of our amending proposals had the same content as those of our colleagues in the Democratic Party, i.e. the majority groups. This meant cooperation, it meant that when we discuss rights and guarantees there is no political difference, and politics, in order to be high, must seek the consent of all political forces to identify the best roads that guarantee rights. This did not happen. On the other hand, we have seen a position of arrogance of the Government, which has put confidence in a measure that is even different from the one voted in the Commission. We cannot vote for this measure, we cannot be in favour of it, even though the rapporteur - and I must acknowledge this - acknowledged that my amendment, the first to introduce arbitration chambers, was a fair way of arbitration, to the extent that it called on the President of the Commission to schedule it as soon as possible for it to become law. However, one could not touch the provisions of Article 1 of the decree-law which, not only does not work, creates a series A and B justice and, among other things, gives rise to an abnormal solution especially with reference to arbitrations made during the appeal procedure. I do not know who will accept it, who will think of doing so, after paying unified contributions, lawyers, judgments of first instance and appeals of the judgment of first instance. If someone were to sting vagueness to do so, one would have the absurdity of an arbitration ruling that puts into nothing a court sentence that already has a provisional execution. Let's go to the sore spots. This reform upsets! Look, this is a serious matter. I cannot understand the fact that we cannot talk about these matters, unlike what has happened at other times. For example, when we did the reform of family law in our country, in which some values were affirmed, we worked without arrogance, with the participation of the majority and the opposition; when the reform of the law on divorce was started, introducing joint divorce, it was done without arrogance, with sharing, recognizing a fundamental principle in the law: also in that case, on the joint application for divorce, it was established the need for the intervention of the judge, the judgment, because it is a question of state. Here, instead, we have something that is not understandable, that is unorganized, because the logic of the separation and divorce process remains and then we build something else. Senator Filippin intelligently put forward a proposal that I did not agree with (while I certainly shared all the other amendments, which were the same as those we had tabled) in which she rightly saw the contradiction: how is it possible to maintain, on the one hand, the publicistic nature of the institution of divorce and marriage with the need for the intervention of the judge and the obligatory attempt to reconcile and, on the other hand, another thing is foreseen, which does not affect all this? It has rightly proposed abolishing the mandatory attempt at conciliation and providing for other possibilities, and thus starting to privatise. That intervention, even though I didn't share it, had consistency, while this is unorganized. In fact, on the one hand, we have the law on divorce which states that the judge must intervene in order to ascertain the impossibility of re-establishment of coexistence and, on the other hand, transforms the prosecutor, who, according to Article 70 of the Code of Civil Procedure, remains in force and represents a necessary part in all matrimonial cases, including those of separation, which suddenly becomes something that is not understood well: it is a sort of administrative authority, because otherwise no terms such as "nulla preclude" and "authorization" would be used, compared to what normally, when it comes to jurisdiction, for a private act, the approval, the court, the judge. What will the prosecutor do? How can Senator Giovanardi assess and verify the interest of the child? How can he do that if he does not have any elements? He'll have a deal. Then, if he is a person who carries out his work with the professional dignity that distinguishes him, he will have to ask the parties for information to assess the child's interest, such as tax returns and all documentation relating to the separation to check whether the agreement is contrary to the rules. Do you realize that the times are longer than shortening them? This is crazy! Why do you do all this? There is a feeling of the arrogance of the government, which only wanted to make a political and ideological commercial, which does not want to find a technical solution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] It is not a matter of freeing civil judges, because the measure barely covers 0.6% of the civilian load, which means nothing. It doesn't affect. So, why make such an unorganized provision? Explain it to me. We have not demanded an ideological position, to the extent that we had proposed, in agreement with Senator Filippin herself, with the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group and others, to introduce a short divorce into this measure. It would only affect the existence of a presupposition. Then, it would have been possible to discuss whether, as Senator Giovanardi says, to approve the text from the Chamber of Deputies with something more or less. The difference lies in the fact that in that hypothesis it was the judge who established the impossibility of the recovery of coexistence, therefore it was correct, it was inserted into the system. Not this one. The system included the text which we corrected together with respect to the text approved by the House of Deputies in which mistakes were made. How can we consider a measure that gives up an overall view of the necessary action to make justice faster? The Minister has announced to us that incentives are provided in the draft law or even in the draft law of stability. Mr President, I would like to remind you that an amendment that I tabled guaranteed a greater contribution to the Ministry of Justice for the period 2015-2018, allowing intervention to be made both as a guarantee of the structures and as a guarantee of the administrative staff to whom 10% was reserved for incentives to work. At the same time it marked the possibility of launching a competition, currently not conceivable by 2015. By December 2015 they will retire, forcefully, always for a measure of the Government, about 400 magistrates. How will the reform you are proposing work if there are 400 less magistrates? We proposed staggering over two years, but the answer was no. I'd like to understand. Politics is sad if it's done this way. It doesn't make sense, if it's done on the basis of who's stronger, who has majority voting, because that's not what guarantees people's rights. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of the process, it is necessary to design together a model for the construction of the process that is a guarantee but, at the same time, a determination of rights with all the guarantees that the system provides. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u72	FILIPPIN (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party Group will vote with conviction on the confidence demanded by the Government of Senate Act No. 1612 of conversion of Decree-Law No. 132... [[Ironic applause from Senator Candiani.]] It will do so in the name of a word, responsibility, which since the first day this legislature began has been the figure and the measure of our work. Justice in Italy is sick and even more serious is the state of civil justice, a real brake on the improvement of the Italian economy and the condition of its citizens and businesses. As my fellow Senators in general have rightly said, the effectiveness of justice is a guarantee of democracy, of equal rights before the law, and its inefficiency, which we measure every day, disrupts society, causes the loss of confidence, is a factor of weakness and loss of competitiveness of our country, discourages companies and investment of capital from abroad. Many have already mentioned the 5 million pending cases pending a judgment or the double times of the trials in Italy compared to the European average. Can we say that with the conversion into law of this decree we have solved the problem of civil justice in our country? In the name of the word responsibility, the answer is no. We have not solved the backwardness, the long time, the denial of justice that citizens all too often suffer. But we don't stop here, we have no intention of stopping here. Already with this decree, as Minister Orlando recalled yesterday, the order of priority has changed for the first time: civil justice is in first place. The reform of civil justice, the justice that affects all citizens, however, requires an organic, courageous and complete intervention, what has been announced by the Government and which has already manifested itself in the first seven measures, beginning with that law delegation of organic reform of the civil process that will soon begin its journey to the Chamber of Deputies and that will require, Senator Caliendo, the participation, collaboration and confrontation of all political forces, not excluded. In order to finally respond to our country's demand for justice, we will have to simplify the legislation, reorder and codify by subject, reorganize the system and order, reduce rituals, eliminate overlaps and confusions. Another key element will be the creation of sections of specialised judges for the family and business, as provided for in another specific bill. Families and businesses, where the strongest is the demand for justice and the most inefficient, so far, the response of the state. The more general reform of justice proposed by the Government, therefore, will give the measure of how much we are ready as a country to go back on the scale of development and finally present ourselves as a credible and modern state, even in a framework of European confrontation. And then, in the face of a number of cases that are double the role of Germany, in order to make civil justice work, to clear the field in order then to intervene with a reform of the process that is not yet another egg of Columbus, that is, the timely introduction of procedural changes that have complicated the process instead of simplifying it - I quote the Minister's reply yesterday - it is necessary to strengthen the systems of alternative solution of disputes through extrajudicial instruments. This serves the decree that we are about to convert into law today. It puts in place a whole series of instruments capable of reducing civil litigation, both with a view to the possibility of the transfer of pending cases to arbitration, and with the enhancement of the professionalism of lawyers and the introduction of the new institution of assisted negotiation. I am not unaware that there is an issue of investment in resources and tax relief necessary to facilitate these interventions, but there is the law of stability for this and there are the promises of the Government. With this decree we simplify the procedure and the rites, with the passage of office from the ordinary rite to the summary rite for the less complex causes. By means of this decree, we modify the methods of compensation for expenses and provide greater interest for those who do not pay their debts and resort to the process as a means of delaying payments. This will discourage reckless quarrels. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u73	Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u74	Colleagues! Either this buzz and allow the explanation of vote or I suspend the sitting, so think about how to vote! FILIPPIN (PD). Well the strong innovation of the executive phase, which has not been adequately told in our debate. In fact, the creditor's ability to use all existing public databases to search for the debtor's assets is finally rationalised and extended and a system of execution of foreclosure is created, both furniture and real estate, potentially more effective. We know that one of the greatest problems of civil justice is the impossibility of obtaining satisfaction and payment of one's credit, after having managed, with so much effort and so much time, to obtain a victorious judgment. And then there are the changes introduced by Articles 6 and 12 of the decree-law. The work carried out by Mr Cucca, whom I thank once again, and by the Commission in examining this rule has been valuable. I have already said in general discussion and I refer to those considerations. The institution of family and marriage protects themselves much more by keeping them out of the courts. I remember only one figure: 100,886 is the number of consensual procedures - that is, agreed, on a joint request - of separation and divorce that are proposed every year in our country. There are about 35,000 others who instead choose the path of litigation. This decree is not an empty box. This decree will allow those 100,886 couples, i.e. 201,772 people, each year to have faster and more reliable times to obtain separation and divorce, with lower economic and personal costs. There will be not only 100,000 fewer appeals, 100,000 fewer appearances, 100,000 fewer Registry duties: there will be 200,000 people, Italian citizens, who if adequately assisted by their lawyers, with agreements that respect the laws and the protection of the weak, especially the minor children, will no longer have to go up the stairs of a court, and this, allow me, is a great improvement. But it's not enough. That's all we need. We need the quick approval of the Law on Short Divorce, and therefore on reducing separation times to obtain divorce. We need the courage of the legislator in the reform of family law, in the revision of Law No. 898 of 1970 on divorce, and I hope that Senator Caliendo on this will give us his precious contribution. We need the courage of the legislator in the prediction of our civil union system as well. This decree is only the first step. Then the others will come, one after the other, step by step. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u77	ANITORI (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, among the reasons why I shall be voting in favour of this measure, I think it is important to highlight those which, in my opinion, represent a step forward on the profile of justice from a social point of view. In particular, I appreciated the specific objective of reducing the amount of litigation, moving in arbitration proceedings pending with the judicial authority, through the identification of alternative measures compared to the procedural procedure. I would like to make the House reflect on the complications, suffering and discomfort that affect thousands of people every year who decide to separate or divorce and are forced to the very long time of the courts. Lightening and simplifying, in the case of separations or divorces, assisted negotiation and the possibility of avoiding legal action are tangible progress. Finally, there is an issue in the measure that I have followed closely in these years of political commitment to my territory, taking care of the demands of the citizens and the various neighbourhood committees. I am referring to the changes in the judicial geography introduced by the then Minister Severino, with the establishment and autonomy of the office of the judge of peace in Ostia and the restoration of that of Barra. It is an important result for which I have fought so much, which finally recognizes the importance and delicacy of an area that counts about 300,000 residents. I acknowledge to the Government, Minister Orlando and Undersecretary Ferri the ability to have corrected an obvious gap in the reorganization of the judicial geography of the Province of Rome. In conclusion, I stress that whenever the Commission addresses central issues for the country, with the aim of reforming and simplifying vital sectors, as in this case, going to have a positive impact on people's lives, it will be able to find my support. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u78	Bipartisan applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u80	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u81	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would simply like to say that, despite the fact that I am unable to take part in the vote on this measure. In fact, I had pointed out to your courtesy, President - and I have received immediate feedback from you - as well as from the Government - from which I have not received feedback - the presence in the title of the provision of that horrible and monstrous - three times monstrous - word that insults the Italian language, beyond the merit of the provision. I understand that there is no time for this, in the rush to take action. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, there is no hurry to change a word that, incorporated in our legislation, as the birth of this Government, generates a monster with two or three heads from a linguistic point of view. That is why I shall not be taking part in this vote. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u82	I understand your disappointment and perhaps in the maxi amendment the first thing to intervene on was precisely the title. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u83	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,800, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 132 of 12 September 2014, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Before drawing in lots the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin, I say that in yesterday's Conference of Leaders it was agreed that they could request to vote before all the others no more than two senators per group. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Corsini, Stefano, Schifani, Cassano, D'Onghia, Olivero, Fravezzi, Laniece, Filippi, Longo Eva and Pinotti. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Cirinna is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Cirinna. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzolini Battista, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Broglia, Puubbico, Buemi Pazzero, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnia, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biaaragio, Filippi, Filippini, Di Giorgi, Finghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippio, Filippino, Filippino, Filippini, Fin, Filippini, Filippini, Fin, Fin, Filippini, Filippin, Fin, Filippino, Filippin, Filippi The senators: Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Blondo, Bocchino, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Candiani, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Compagnone, Cotti D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Divina, Donno Ferrara Mario, Fucksia Gaetti Lezzi, Lucidi Mangili, Martelli, Milo, Molinari, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Munerato, Mussini Paglini, Petraglia, Puglia Romani Maurizio Scibona, Simeoni, Stefani, Stefano Taverna, Tosato Uras Vacciano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Colleagues, waiting for the secretary senators to finish their work, I would move to the next item on the agenda. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u84	The next item is communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to draft law No 1577 which reads: "Reorganization of public administrations" related to the maneuvering of public finances. After consulting the Government, I have read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126a, paragraph 2-a of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law in question: The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the bill in title, pursuant to and for the effects of article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, and after consulting the representative of the Government, notes that the measure under consideration, even if presented at a later stage to the 2014 and previous Document of Economy and Finance compared to the Note of Update of the same Document, contains provisions that are, as a whole, in conformity with the content of the connected to the maneuver of public finance, as sanctioned by article 10, paragraph 6 of the Law of Accounting. Taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission, examined the related bill n. 1577, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taken note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the measure in question does not contain provisions unrelated to its object, as defined by the legislation in force, as well as the Note updating the Document of Economics and Finance as approved by the parliamentary resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u85	Colleagues, as the Presidency has been asked to speak on matters not included on the agenda, I would take the time necessary to calculate the votes in order to do so. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u88	Montevecchi (M5S). President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to something which we have read in all the newspapers these days, and which has rightly been given wide coverage and wide scope. I am referring to the offensive words that a Senator of the Republic has addressed to a girl of only thirteen years, rea of having defended the singer rapper Fedez. The less drugs, the more diet, the worse it is, the Senator wrote. They are only 33 characters, a mini chirping launched with the aim of hitting a little girl, aiming at one of Achilles' heels of a teenager, the physical aspect: cross and torment of every girl of that young age, as an adult knows well, because he was young, and how a family father should know well. A cross and a torment - let's say because it is important - sharpened by the devastating cultural tsunami, through the spread of deeply diseducating junk programs and dangerous and unacceptable messages, because still linked to macist logics that relegate the woman to the role of sexy handmaiden 2.0 and enhance the aesthetic perfection and the worship of the image as fundamental values, and not only for the evaluation of the person, thus riding the merit with a blow of buttocks made, but also for the inclusion or exclusion from social groups. Our senator should know something about this, militating in a party whose leader will go to the annals for having more distinguished himself for the promotion of this cultural model than for its dismantling, both as a parliamentarians and as a media owner. But let's go back to that tweet probably launched in the grip of an adolescent regurgitation by an institutional cyberbully, as it was rightly defined. This unacceptable tweet is even more serious if we consider that it comes a few days from shocking episodes of cyberbullying that have once again filled the national news. And it also comes when it's under discussion at the 1st. The Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee has a bill that aims to promote and propose solutions to combat this phenomenon. This tweet is then revealing the character we're dealing with. In this regard, the words of rapper Fedez - in my opinion - point to the point. He says: But they are small episodes such as these that are revealing the endless pride and the frozen soul with which many men of power think of the citizens. They are small episodes such as these that illuminate by day the mania of omnipotence, the overflowing ego and the total lack of guilt... Yet, Mr Maurizio Gasparri, who is the person we are talking about, vice president of the Senate of the Italian Republic, has in a single blow ignored all its duties and obligations both institutional and legal, civil and moral. Basically, with just one tweet - please, Mr President, allow me time to list these faults - the Vice President of the Senate, in the first place, would have violated the rules of the penal code in the matter of defamation and injustice, as provided for in Articles 594 and 595 of the penal code. Secondly, it violated Article 54 of the Constitution, which states: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. It violated, even before they were approved, future cyberbullying rules. He violated moral, institutional and civil principles. We then ask that this person resign from his post as Vice President of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because such an important office, such a high institutional office cannot be covered by a person who, already in the past, has put in place defamatory, arrogant and offensive behaviors everywhere, and in this sense we remember the episode of the middle finger. The 5 Star Movement therefore calls for the Vice-President of the Senate, Mr Maurizio Gasparri, to resign and, if he does not resign himself, to discuss in this Chamber a possible motion to take him to resign. And I expect the full support of the Democratic Party on this point, for the senator who presented the bill on cyberbullying sits among the benches of that same party, and is Elena Ferrara. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u89	I do not want to go into the matter, Senator Montevecchi, but I must inform you that the institution of the motion of mistrust against a member of the Presidency Council does not exist in the Constitution, nor in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u92	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking with reference to Senator Montevecchi, whom I understand. I understand the reasons that lead her to take the side of a girl against the powerful Vice President of the Senate, seeing a very young girl (obviously from the tweet you could not understand how young this person was) being the subject of a rather harsh exchange of messages, however publicly, given the nature of the Twitter tool. However, it should be considered how this issue has arisen. The aforementioned girl, although very young, has decided to go down in this type of confrontation, often very harsh and very disrespectful of the people, we know well how many insults receive so many political representatives of all the parties, and if one falls on the field in attacking one of these people telling her that it is dirty (I would like to know what the premises are in this regard), then one cannot expect to be the object of the due respect that one has for another. PUGLIA (M5S). She's a child! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). First of all, Senator Gasparri - I repeat - could not know the age of this person. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u93	Colleagues, Senator Montevecchi intervened and no one disturbed. Senator Malan must be able to do it now, because he is intervening in absolutely permitted terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u94	[[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Montevecchi, I have listened to and spoken with great respect for you and for your motives which - I repeat - I understand. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the issue was born because, in the context of a confrontation that is often anything but civil within the context of the mutual political debate (it is not debate, often it is jokes made for free), this girl decided to confront and clashed with what each of us sees every day. Her age allowed her to enter this world; she is certainly very young, but she has decided to go into this field and has suffered some consequences. Moreover, those who enter into this confrontation suffer as many consequences. I would point out, moreover, that President Gasparri called the girl's father and I would also point out that, following this exchange and scandalism, in my opinion excessive that was done about it, Senator Gasparri has received several very serious threats to him and to those of his family members who, of course, had nothing to do with it), with a precise quotation of names and places where family members might find themselves. Therefore, I believe that this is a much more serious matter than an exchange, started by the aforementioned girl who, because of her age, might not be fully aware of the consequences of what she said. I believe, therefore, that things should be brought back to the level to which they are, also evaluating the complexity of the fact and not the single word in the individual message of Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u96	You have the right to do so. That's the last surgery I've ever agreed to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u97	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I only take the floor to express my opinion on this sentence by Senator Gasparri. I think it was a wrong sentence and should not have been said; and I also believe that all of us - especially we who are here in the Senate - should be very careful and prudent when we express ourselves publicly and when we use these instruments, which are of elevation of society, but which can also become very, very dangerous. The sentence was wrong and should not have been pronounced. However, I agree with what the President said, since neither our Rules nor our Constitution provide for the presentation of motions on members of the Chamber and Senate Presidency Council. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u98	Colleagues, I intend to close this debate. This is the second time we have dealt with this issue and I believe that it was necessary and necessary to do so. At this point, however, I believe that the first thing to do is to prevent the issue from becoming a further harm to the interested party.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u99	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800, entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 132 of 12 September 2014, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 213 Senators voting 212 Majority 107 Favorables 161 Contrars 51]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 132 are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-338.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.15 a.m.
