ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u8	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Wednesday 18 June, at 7 p.m. for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first. Tomorrow's afternoon sitting will therefore end at 645 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on document XXIII, No 1. The report has already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Gaetti, Vice-President of the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission, to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the report approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission at its meeting on 9 April 2014 first highlighted the regulatory environment within which the system of assets seized by the Mafia, both at national and international and at European level, is located. I would like to leave out the analysis of European legislation, both for reasons of synthesis and for the fact that the Commission will meet in the next few hours to approve a report on the European Semester in terms of combating crime. With regard to national legislation, the Commission notes that the body of legislation on the fight against organised crime, despite the adoption in 2011 of the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws, is still uneven and lacking. In particular, it was concluded that the symbolic value of confiscation and the transfer of property from the mafia to the community, to associations, to public bodies to root the culture of legality has gradually been lost, moving from a social destination to a general liquidation to satisfy the credit rights of third parties. The report continues the national legal excursus in the matter of the patrimonial struggle to the mafia: from the law Rognoni-La Torre to the successive measures, even after the death of Falcone and Borsellino, to the law n. 109 of 1996, which allowed the social use of the confiscated property. However, subsequent regulatory interventions have proved to be too fragmented and above all overlapped with each other, with regard to both the establishment of the Agency for Confiscated Goods (2010) and the procedural aspects of confiscation. The Commission considers that it should not propose amending the anti-mafia code in relation to the provisions on the disposal of confiscated property, of which the report makes a precise list and explanation. The report also highlights the fact that at present existing legislation (i.e. the anti-mafia code) does not offer instruments for the effective coordination of the phase of aggression with that of the destination of seized and confiscated property. The reasons can be summarized as follows: the code favours the procedure of the sale of the goods to satisfy the creditors admitted to the liability, albeit not in the full amount of the same, but with percentages fixed each year by law; there is a succession of rules applicable according to the date of the proposals formulated; the register of the judicial administrators has not yet been established nor even less adopted the decree relating to their compensation; the anti-mafia code has not carried out a complete reconnaissance of the legislation in this matter, for example has not provided anything in relation to the confiscation carried out abroad. Another critical issue raised by the Commission's work in this area was the collection of data on seizure and confiscation procedures and the destination of confiscated property. The Commission notes that the programme for the launch of the data collection project, relating to the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of Goods seized and confiscated from organised crime (established with the above-mentioned anti-mafia code), although it has national and European funds, is not yet operational. Also for this delay, the latest available data are those included in the last report to the Parliament of the Ministry of Justice of September 2013, which however does not collect data on the situation after the destination of the goods. This report shows a decline in the seizure and confiscation procedures registered against an increase in the value of the seized assets. With regard to the only assets actually and definitively removed from the assets of the clans, the disturbing fact is the sharp decrease of the confisches with social destination, instead of a large demand, from the State, the local authorities and the associations, to reimpose in the legal circuit companies and goods. The Commission therefore points out that, fifteen years after the legislative introduction of the re-use for social or institutional purposes of confiscated property, the overall picture presents some important critical issues, all the more serious the more evident the symbolic importance of such re-use, which would facilitate an image of the present State, which also guarantees employment levels, in the case of re-starting production structures, and that it is opposed to the mafia capable of giving illegal work. Having said this, the Commission, on the basis of the examination of the implementation experience of Legislative Decree No 159 of 2011 (anti-mafia code) and the outcome of the hearings and the cognitive activity, has identified some corrective measures to be proposed for the examination of the measure. In summary, for each chapter of the intervention I will refer to the essential proposals, referring to the reading of the report the completeness of the formulations. With regard to corrective measures to improve the efficiency, timeliness and guarantees of the procedure, the Commission proposes the establishment of specialised sections at district courts and at court of appeal, after appropriate strengthening of organic plants, and the allocation of competence in the field of asset prevention measures to district offices. In order to avoid overlaps of proposals from various authorities currently entitled to do so, the Commission proposes to entrust the District Prosecutor with a coordinating power, which would avoid the risk of asset proposals that anticipate the content of ongoing criminal investigations and covered by secret investigation. With regard to the extension of the power of proposal to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, in addition to the existing power to make proposals for personal prevention measures, the Commission proposes that it be given the power to propose asset prevention measures in the context of the activities of impulse and coordination attributed to it by the Code of Criminal Procedure. In order to avoid possible censorship by the European Court of Human Rights, the Commission proposes participation in the hearing on videoconference instead of mere statements made to the magistrate of the place where he is held (as provided for in the current rule). On the other hand, as regards the protection of third parties, the substantive question focuses on the finding that in the state there is no provision for the citation of third parties holders of real guarantee rights that can carry out defensive deductions only at the hearing of verification of claims and therefore only after the seizure. The Commission therefore proposes that not only holders of real or personal rights should be mentioned, but also holders of real guarantee rights. The Commission also proposes to amend Article 24 of the Anti-Mafia Code by providing that, for the purposes of the judgment on disproportion, the proceeds of tax evasion and any other illegal activity are not taken into account. In fact, it considers in resounding contrast with the principles of legality and solidarity enshrined in the Constitution that a socially dangerous person can justify his or her assets assuming that they have been acquired with the origin of tax evasion. On the other hand, with regard to judicial administrators, the Commission would like to identify the categories of professionals involved in this task, to provide for the joint appointment of several professionals for the same procedure and, finally, to supplement the legislation on the criteria for conferring the task based on rotation and balanced distribution. With regard to the new National Agency, the Commission has come to the conclusion that the Agency, as it is structured and configured today, is not able to support the enormous amount of work that it receives from the various competent bodies. In addition, a better set of professional skills is needed for the tasks so specific that they are assigned to it. To this end, the Commission proposes that the Agency should have exclusive competence only for the destination of the assets after the finality of the confiscation and that it should assist the judge delegate during the previous phases, starting from the seizure, with adequate human, professional and material resources. In order to prevent the assets seized in the criminal proceedings referred to above from being managed by several judicial authorities, the Commission proposes that the management of the assets seized in criminal proceedings be the same monocratic court that has ordered the seizure; the Agency will co-finance the judicial authority from the seizure to the final confiscation. The Commission also hopes that the Agency will be equipped with appropriate IT communication tools for the performance of its tasks. The Commission also proposes that the Agency be entrusted with a stable advisory function in favour of judicial administrations and that they be linked to all structures and associations that can provide professionalism to assist in the management. With regard to the structure of the Agency, the Commission proposes some changes, which concern the selection of its staff, its submission to the supervision of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, that the Agency be equipped with an instrument of guidance involving, free of charge, all persons potentially interested in the destination of the property, from the point of view of the seizure. The absolute necessity and urgency of making operational the computer program for the census and centralized management of all seized and confiscated assets is also noted. With regard to the management of companies, the Commission considers that it accepts the proposal of one of the government commissions on the adoption of a new institute, judicial control, intended to be applied instead of administration and also seizure and confiscation: an entirely innovative measure, since it does not determine the managing dissection, configuring a less invasive form of intervention, if the forms of infiltration and mafia conditioning of business activities do not affect the substantial integrity of the company and therefore does not justify such an invasive measure as deburring. I apologise for the length of the exhibition, but the Commission has all worked very hard, the proposals are very many and the ones set out here are only a small part. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a good job that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission has done on a decisive, strategic and very delicate subject: aggression against the assets of the Mafia bosses and, above all, their social and productive destination, a subject very dear to the great intuition of Pio La Torre. It was an extraordinary invention to open up, in the fight against the mob, to aggression against the heritage. I remind all my colleagues that this caused the devastating period that in 1982 led first to the fall, on April 30, of Pio La Torre and Rosario Di Salvo, and then, on September 3, of General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa, who shared this modern strategy with Pio La Torre. Parliament arrived later, on 13 September, when it decided to give life to the legislation against mob associationism, providing for 416- bis and thus finally opening the way to the aggression of assets. Colleagues, we then had to arrive to 1996 to define the social and productive destination of the confiscated goods: a very important stage that was reached thanks also to the million signatures collected by the associative world led by Libera. At the time I was a young Member of Parliament who, in the House, with other colleagues, participated in the drafting of the relevant text. Another absolute novelty was the concern about the social and productive destination of confiscated property. I remember that we had no experience behind us that could help us, because very few cases had come to the final confiscation and almost no good at the social destination. So we developed a model, an idea. Dear colleagues, experience then imposed some considerations and assessments on us and we finally came to the approval of that other great idea - it is the year 2010 - that is the establishment of the Agency. We must recognize with much intellectual honesty that, in the application phase, there are many limitations, failures and difficulties encountered. The application phase - as is usually the case in our country - did not give the best of itself. That is why the Commission's work is very valuable, because it challenges Parliament to find modern solutions in this sensitive area: to ensure that aggression against assets can become a great resource to create legality and development in our country. Thousands of confiscated property and billions of confiscated resources. We cannot leave these goods in the freezer, frozen, not use them, because they could become social services widespread in our country. Some are, but there are few. The companies could give work but, on the contrary, there are very few those returned productive, because in the vast majority of cases they have failed. I remember two deadly cases about it, two stories become two bad stories. I am referring to the failure of Group 6 GDO, part of the Despar Group by Giuseppe Grigoli, who is the forerunner of the still fugitive boss Matteo Messina Money. Hundreds of jobs are at risk of jumping, when instead you would have the modern opportunity to deliver that reality to the territory demonstrating that, with anti-mafia, the state is able to promote the work better and more than the mafia. Another story that has turned into history concerns the Riela Group, which works in the field of transport. It is a reality in the hands of the Herculaneum Mafia, which has been so skilled as to empty its contents and make it an empty box no longer able to act as it could potentially have done. It is another bad story, as there are many others in our country, that the Commission has told and described in order to be able to draw some lessons from them. The first lesson is that it is necessary to move to a design phase, systemic, well done, that takes care of the details and does not simply define the norms in general, but is able to enter into the merit and make the aggression to the assets a new season of struggle against the mafia in our country. Senator Gaetti, Vice-President of the Commission, described the organisation of the document, the analyses made and the proposals made. There are some points in front of us very obvious. There is an exponential increase in the number of confisches, almost tripled in 2012 compared to 2011 (this is a constant figure), while there has not been the same trend with regard to the final confisches and their allocations: since 2009 we are not there. We had a recent peak in 2013, but also this is not a fact that leaves us quiet, because however it is far from the absolute and potential numbers that there are. It is as if we were faced with this condition: there is a demand and a hunger on the part of the state to have offices for local authorities, there is still hunger and thirst on the part of the associations to obtain a confiscated property, there is still an unprecedented challenge to reimpose in the legal circuit companies permanently stolen from bosses, and the state as a whole behaves as if there were a factory of cars able to produce at full rate, with citizens who are ready to buy these cars, but in the dealers there are full yards, and those machines do not sell. This is the condition of today that we must face and to which we must give a serious and qualified response. The first question is that of the time of the trial phase: there is a need for a specialised court, and this can happen if district headquarters are put at the centre. President Grasso knows this idea so dear to Falcone, that it must be completed, made systemic and finally able to take off. Preventive asset seizure measures must also be strengthened, but also the assault on assets and the seizure of property. We must finally give greater powers to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. In short, we must ensure that the procedural times, which were established in the anti-mafia code in two and a half years, are real and that there is a further implementation, through surgical interventions that we can carry out on the normative level, in order to reach a high standard and quality in this very delicate phase. The other point that was emphasized is that of the custody of the goods. In this respect, we are faced with a very delicate issue. The Parliamentary Commission itself had to note a conflict between the sections of the measures to prevent prosecutors and the Agency itself. A state cannot afford this conflict, so we need to take off the register of judicial administrators, with more criteria in the choice of judicial administrators, with less discretion and more professionalism, and we need to create a synergy and collaboration between the Agency and the sections of prevention measures, in a synergistic relationship. We must avoid creating those opaque areas, which have also been there and which we have had to analyse in different contexts. Mr President, on this point the credibility of the State is being put to the test: those who take care of the goods cannot be a monopoly administrator on the territory, but we must widen, we must have more professionalism, we must ensure that the management is continuously certified, and we must constantly give a justification and also a public communication of the results. The results must be guaranteed, because it is not important to manage a good, but it is important to re-relate it socially, and above all, when it comes to a company, to make that good productive. In order to do this, however, on some occasions we must also skip the same judicial administrators, because when you have a specific and particular activity the best productive reuse of that company is to entrust it, especially during the seizure, to a leading company in the sector, an international company. This serves to avoid, as in the case of supermarkets, that even the best administrator, being not equipped with that culture, that know-how, that specific professionalism, may not be able to maintain on the market such a complex activity and so subjected to the stress of the competition. Of course, when that property is finally confiscated it can become the subject of pre-emption for that leading company that has demonstrated, with efficiency and transparency, modern management and maintenance of employment levels. Mr President, we are also called upon to make a qualitative leap in the management of goods. We must better organize a fund that has been required for a long time with regard to the mobile part, the money, the securities. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that everything has ended up in the justice fund, and also on this front, before understanding what is really going on, the Commission has had to sweat seven shirts, because the complexity, the bureaucratic model, the many constraints envisaged prevent that huge mass (billions of euros) from becoming an opportunity, in that case for justice and for the Ministry of the Interior. I think we need to review the procedures and we need to ensure that the justice fund is not only intended for the work of our magistrates and our offices (e.g. 33%), not only for the Ministry of the Interior, for the shortcomings it has (33 percent): it would take a 33% to set up a fund for the social and productive revival of activities, because a certain immovable property to become a nursery needs investment; that company to become a market company needs investment. From that fund, from that 33 percent we can draw resources to make a qualitative leap. However, this also requires a structural review of the role of the Agency. That is what I said in this very Chamber, when in March 2010 we approved the decree that launched the Agency for Confiscated Goods. It was a long-awaited moment, but already then two approaches clashed: the model of the Agency - let's call it this - to ministerial culture, the idea that the Agency should become a sort of IRI, another Ministry managed with a bureaucratic culture, and another idea that then failed to impose itself (we tried in every way but did not succeed), and that is the idea of a modern Agency. Colleagues, a modern agency does not need an elephantic apparatus, but the paradox is that that bureaucratic idea eventually married an agency that had only 30 units of staff: an old idea with a very small body and not able to operate. Now, instead, we must finally have the courage to move on to the idea of a modern agency: 60 professionalized units would be enough to the maximum and have committees (which has proved to be a factor of success over the years) in all prefectures. Collegi, we do not need to divide on where the Agency must have its headquarters, if in Reggio Calabria, Palermo or Milan: you can be centralists according to Reggio Calabria, Palermo, Milan. We need an agency here in Rome that has above all tasks of direction, control, with substitute powers if there is no action on the territory, but ordinary activity must be distributed to all the territories in the prefectures. This is a proposal put forward by the Commission and it is a proposal of excellence and quality that brings us out of the almost failure of these years of the model of the Ministerial Agency. It is necessary then, President, that the Agency has the opportunity to enhance those professionalism that the business world, anti-racket associations, Confindustria itself have made available to the State and all that knowledge and experience gained in the world of volunteering and associationism, because there are successful experiences, thanks to their work, that the State must make its own. In short, Mr President, we are called to this qualitative leap: the Anti-Mafia Commission offers us this opportunity and I think that, with its leadership and with the contribution of all the Groups, here in the Senate and then in the House this qualitative leap we can finally do it and we must do it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u13	I take the opportunity to greet the delegation of the Confesercenti of Catania who follows our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it should now be clear to everyone that a serious and effective fight against the mafia does not take place exclusively with the innumerable orders of custody issued every year by the judiciary and which are laudably carried out by the law enforcement agencies. One of the main weapons of contrast to the mob power, perhaps the most important, is the aggression of the bosses. (Following BLUNDO). The seizure and confiscation of assets and money illegally accumulated, in fact, weakens, strongly the great criminal organizations from the economic and organizational point of view, greatly limiting their collusive potential. First of all, the Communist deputy Pio La Torre had understood that, together with Virginio Rognoni, he is the father of Law No. 646 of 1982 with which, alongside the measures of personal prevention, even those of a patrimonial nature, such as seizure and confiscation, were introduced, in order to eliminate from the economic circuit the assets deriving from wealth and property illegally accumulated. The Tower and Rognoni have been precursors in understanding that the power, social consensus and economic viability of the bosses could be limited or drastically reduced by subtracting their illegally earned possessions, goods and money. Even the bosses immediately realized that the so-called "La Torre-Rognoni" law could become a real "sailing" for them. "There is no worse thing than confiscating property, so the best thing is to leave" came even to say in the mid-eighties the powerful Palermo boss Francesco Inzerillo. In 1996, with a view to strengthening the legislative system, Law No 109, which allows the use for social purposes of property confiscated from mafias, was also quickly adopted, but as is apparent from document XXIII No 1, which we are examining today in this House, the legal framework is still largely fragmented and lacking. There are many opportunities that are lost, blocking in the bud the projects of many young people, forced to wait, in many cases even for years, for municipalities and local authorities to indicate the ban on the allocation of a good. It is precisely on the allocation criteria - and here I appeal to the Government, if it pays attention - that a fixed percentage of the assets to be allocated should be attributed to the children who have had experience in family homes and reception facilities, recognizing them an important possibility of reintegration and social redemption. The completion of the 18th year is the time when the social services' obligation to support their protection paths, with the consequent risk of social exclusion, poverty, and therefore the risk of deviance and of perpetrating mafia systems and mechanisms that are not accepted by us. The most dramatic aspect comes from the absence of alternative housing solutions of the community and the family home and the growing shortage of resources for starting the work of these young people. As you know, every year about 3,000 young people from the age of 18 leave the family's replacement reception paths and about two thirds do not belong to the family of origin. To avoid dramatic situations of poverty, loneliness, deviance, psychopathology present today in Italy it would be good to accompany these young people towards autonomy even economic. The property confiscated from the Mafia can become an imposing resource for young people, in particular for the most disadvantaged ones; a way to counter legality and the State as measures to prevent degradation and therefore crime. Finally, I would like to stress one small point. It should be noted that of the 4,847 assets allocated, 3,480 were allocated until 2008, long before the National Agency was established. Even, from 2010 to 2013 the confisches with destination have dropped from 395 to 162. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question that must be asked, even if it may seem rhetorical, is only one: what has the Agency served so far? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Madam President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u15	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u16	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u17	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the report by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and the prospects for reform of the system for the management of property seized and confiscated from organised crime, approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission on 9 April. The same organically makes the point on the long-standing, complex and intricate interweaving of regulatory and management responsibilities regarding those assets taken from organized crime, suggesting possible legislative and factual solutions. I would like briefly to highlight a few key steps in the report and then briefly illustrate a case of this kind, which will certainly serve to reinforce the need for rapid and timely intervention in order to try to untangle the complicated skein as soon as possible. The report refers to the key role played by the National Agency, established in 2010 by Law No. 50 of 31 March 2010, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 4 of February 2010, No. 4. The Commission itself stressed the urgent need for a restyling of the overall regulatory framework, pointing out that an increasing number of assets stolen from mafia crime does not always correspond to an adequate management of the assets themselves, despite the more than consolidated effort of voluntary associations in the recovery of assets and in their social valorisation as a symbol of legality and civil rebirth. However, it should not be forgotten that the problem has an even greater significance from an economic point of view and that to date it appears that out of ten confiscated companies nine fail. Therefore, they need to be able to compete with the market and have the tools to become productive as any other healthy economic company capable of creating work and development. For this to happen it is necessary that the confiscated companies enjoy adequate legal and commercial advertising in order to be visible to those realities intending to detect them and able to reimpose them in the productive fabric and, to this end, it could be functional to establish a register of the confiscated goods punctually updated. I believe that the census carried out by the Agency itself is not sufficient, which takes over the value of almost 13,000 assets confiscated from the mafias in Italy (to be precise 12,946, of which 11,238 buildings and 1,708 companies), an important value almost equal to a financial maneuver. In order for these companies to become actually productive, they must act and be managed with real managerial criteria. The Attorney Gratteri supports it, says Libera, the trade and business associations have been repeating it for a long time. It is necessary that the judicial administrator of a confiscated company acts as a real manager of a large company with a monomandatory mandate, with precise technical and managerial competence. It is true that by legislative decree n. 14 of 2010, the Register of Judicial Administrators was established, divided into an ordinary section and a section of business experts, to which can be registered in the ordinary section lawyers, accountant doctors and accounting experts and, in the section of business experts, those who have carried out professional activities of management of companies or corporate crises for at least five years. But it is also true that this album was only regulated in 2014 - and precisely in January - and entered into force on 8 February 2014. However, it is not enough, although it is a first important recognition in this respect. Although the Commission itself recognises the need for intervention mechanisms to carry out a business check-up and verify the possibilities of continuing business with a new corporate structure, I believe it is essential that the administrator identified by the Agency has competence in this regard and possibly is assisted in this by technicians able to carry out an assessment of the real commercial capacity of the confiscated companies once detected by healthy realities. It is precisely in this sense that the structure, the territorial location, the organic allocation and the operational dynamics of the Agency must be reformed, as envisaged by the Commission, while providing for a single judicial body with which the Agency relates. It is therefore essential that there is continuous contact between the judicial administrator and the delegated judge, which is, however, unique and direct. This is an intercourse, not only necessary, but even vital, among several protagonists of the procedure, difficult to reconcile with the presence of those representing the Agency in garrisons also far away from the seat of the confiscated property. It is important to remember that the motion for a resolution No 1, which we are debating today, stresses the need, in order to speed up the destination of the confiscated property, for a complete reform of the National Agency, by providing it with professionalism with economic and managerial skills; by concentrating its tasks in the post-confiscation phase; by entrusting it with functions of aid to the judicial authority during the procedure; by reorganising the structure also with the endowment of an instrument of address that involves, free of charge, all those potentially interested in the destination of the property; by thus facilitating the immediate use for social use of the property since the seizure phase. It should also be stressed that the report recognises, in order to strike at the assets of crime, the indispensable need to articulate within a unified vision the two phases of the action of contrast, namely the aggression to the assets and the destination of the assets confiscated from crime for their re-use in favour of the community, and this is the phase today by the National Agency. It should be recalled that the last two stability laws have made substantial changes, both in terms of the Agency's competence (Stability Act 2013) and in terms of the issue of creditors deemed to be in good faith (Stability Act 2014). Therefore, the whole matter of seizures and confiscations is constantly becoming and the rules overlap. In fact, at present the current legislation does not offer instruments for the effective coordination of the phase of aggression with that of the destination of the assets seized and confiscated. The report also points out that in the event that the confiscated property is a business property and has the possibility of remaining on the market, the rule also provides for the possibility that it may be granted free of charge to workers' cooperatives. This becomes a direct point, especially in those territories with the highest density of endemic unemployment. The legislator with this forecast wanted to favour social profitability, understood as a concrete possibility of employment, in favour of workers' cooperatives, considering the fact itself as a utility for the State. In this sense, the forecast included in the motion for a resolution with reference to the need for more appropriate and appropriate regulatory instruments to meet current needs in order to make the management of seized goods more efficient (...) and to make their destination faster after confiscation. In addition, the motion for a resolution also points out that: The uncertainty about the timing of the procedure and the concrete possibility of continuing the company, affects the maintenance of the occupational levels and deprives the workers of protection; moreover the change of the subjects that follow the administration (from the seizure until the final confiscation) can hinder the realization of an industrial plan of medium term, only instrument that can allow the survival and the development of the enterprise. If the report rightly stresses the need to provide for the protection of third-party creditors, given that under current legislation good faith creditors will be satisfied with the proceeds of the sale of confiscated property, similar forms of protection will have to be provided for workers. In this respect, the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a rotating fund fed with some of the sums now allocated to the Single Justice Fund is very significant, in order to make buildings usable and to encourage workers in the seized companies. We cannot forget that all the following and preceding is rooted in the experience of these years in the management of confiscated property and in the legislation linked to it as it is produced. Experience, in this sense, has therefore made and is a school. In addition to negative examples of companies that have been shown to lend themselves in the operations that the Agency was carrying out in order to buy back the company and put it back on the market, there are numerous virtuous cases of reuse and an important example is constituted by a company of my Province, Trapani, the Calcestruzzi Ericina Libera. I would like to point out that in 2012 only Sicily held 37 percent of the businesses that were stolen from crime throughout the country (561 out of 1,516). This is where I would like to represent the case of a case of affront to another company still in my Province, Trapani, of which I have direct knowledge and for which I have intervened several times in this House. It is Group 6 GDO srl, with headquarters in Castelvetrano, a company in judicial administration since 2008 that operated in the field of large distribution managing directly and indirectly, through related companies and subsidiaries, or having granted third parties under the lease of a branch of the company, the administration of affiliation and management of supermarkets and discount, in the Province of Trapani, Agrigento and in part of Palermo. Following the confiscation order (just the judgment of the Supreme Court of Cassation of October 2013), all company shares were transferred to the National Agency for the administration and the destination of assets seized and confiscated to organized crime; consequently, on December 20, 2013, the minutes that provided for the extension of the Cassa Integrazione Guadi Extraordinary had been signed at the provincial office of Trapani... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orrù, you should finish your speech. ORRU' (PD). Madam President, I would ask you to attach the remainder of my speech to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. ORRU' (PD). First, however, I would like to make a few concluding remarks. Remedial measures are needed to improve the efficiency, timeliness and guarantees of the proceedings and even, on the basis of statistical data on the slopes, to set up specialised sections, including at the Trapani Court, as proposed by the Commission. In conclusion, I hope that Group 6 GDO is not one of those companies that increases the percentage of confiscated realities that fail and that there is still scope for such a company to become a case-by-case case which refutes the fact that nine out of ten of those confiscated do not have the possibility to return virtuously to the market and finally clear the field from the very dangerous idea that organized crime is able to offer jobs while the State struggles to protect this right. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u18	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u19	Madam President, representative of the Government, before I speak in general debate, I would like to take this opportunity to urge the President to appoint the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle and its illegal activities, which was established by Law No 1 of 7 January 2014, and to convene it. We know that it is a practice for the President of the Senate to give a reasonable period of courtesy to the parliamentary groups to proceed with the appointment of their representatives. However, we believe that, being mid-June and having spent six months, the reasonable time of courtesy was more than enough. We therefore call for the immediate appointment of the Commissioners and for the first Commission to be convened. As a member of the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission - as defined in practice - I urge the start of the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Waste Management, because our work in the Anti-Mafia Commission is often linked to this Commission, which - I repeat - has not yet been established, and therefore we often have great difficulties. Furthermore, we would not like to see political appointments being put before the actual problems of the investigation into the illegal management of waste, which are real and very topical and urgent, and I would say no longer to be postponed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, thank you, and I apologize if I have used part of the time available to me to make this request, which I hope the President of the Senate can take into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u20	It will be brought to the attention of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u21	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, we would like to believe that it is love that determines our destiny or that the various reformative factors that direct our lives are the great dreams and passions of the soul or the advances of the technological sciences. In reality, in concrete life are the ideas of the business the only ones we never get away from, from the threshold of the house to the desk of the office, from dawn to dusk. The business is the organizing principle of every day. Of course, one of the ideas of business is to be able to dominate, and it does not appear as such: it wears the shoes of authority, control, prestige, ascendant and fame. Business has become the fundamental force of human society, and it professes a fundamentalist faith in its basic principles. Environmental battles are the scenarios in which religious wars are fought today, a sign that we are not entirely subject to the plans of globalization. Multinational companies and, sometimes, mafias also have a greater power than many national governments, and their power depends, precisely, on the state of their economy. The empire of the economy of multinationals and mafias, like that of religions, has now been internalized. Business ideas are the only truly universal ideas: ideas such as trade, property, product, exchange, value and money govern the human life of the planet beyond any geographical boundary and any costume barrier. There's nothing more powerful than ideas. They open our eyes and enrich us; but they are difficult to handle, and they are also the only precious miracle of human existence. The failure of collective power in bureaucracy, education, institutions and companies implies a great incubation of these ideas. We have been stranded on the "as" and "chi" and we avoid playing with the "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" or "cosa" Unfortunately, we are no longer a country where late at night we talk about ideas. So, first of all, let us all think again, so that ideas are born and remain alive, even if we need courage to face their destructive force. Ideas can destroy mental clothing that we are fond of, but they are the only way to defeat the Mafia phenomenon. It is not very useful to courageously open new roads if you continue to stay inside the same maze. It is the very model that must break, that must open. Now moving forward, especially in the fight against the mafias, means going down, towards the errors of our culture, and back, towards the pain enclosed in his memory. It means deepening, staying with what's going on. The best way, and perhaps the only way, is to imagine that we want to stay in that environment for the rest of our lives, to get to the bottom of the problems. Growth thus would then focus on the "not yet" and what is missing. Perhaps you need to make room, you need an emptying of what is customary in view of something that is not customary. But we need - and I stress this - a welcome attitude towards what ends. We must accept that the Mafia is a human phenomenon, and as such it will eventually end. The ideas of the past, which once worked, continue to determine how to deal with the current problems. It is time to change them, to question everything and to do a radical debauchery. And again, power comes to our aid, with its power and energy: if those who manage it institutionally will use it and use its own energy to defeat the Mafia, nothing will be the same as before, and a human phenomenon will eventually cease to exist. We really need to start believing that it is possible to defeat this phenomenon, the phenomenon of the mafias, and to rethink the system of the use of confiscated goods is only the first step, precisely because we are going to affect their economy, that economy that gives them sap, and at the same time we give a strong signal from the State to our society. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u23	Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I summarize the meaning of the acquisitions contained in this report using three tweets: "The Mafia is rich, let us put our hands in her pocket." The Italian laws against mafias are at the forefront, let's export them to Europe. To restore the future to Italy, let's make the mafias a thing of the past. For those who listen to us from Radical Radio and see us on the satellite channel and perhaps do not have time to deepen the complicated technicalities of the text today at our examination, I insist that prevention measures are special legal remedies, which start from the assumption that sometimes the danger to the tranquility of the life of a community and its civic and socio-economic fabric may not come from openly criminal behaviors. The law requires repressive intervention by the State in respect of behaviour that has the full dignity of crime; but nothing excludes it from reacting by means other than the criminal process, suitable for personal and economic conduct that equally endanger the freedom of citizens. The preventive measures are aimed at socially dangerous subjects: those, that is, who, in various ways, but in a concrete and visible key, have shown that they can criminalise, dedicating themselves to illicit trafficking and living of the relative proceeds. To this general dangerous attitude, over time, has also been added a specific legislative forecast, which concerns the specific dangerous ones, that is those that have denoted the concrete potentialities of the bond with the mafias. In this context, the Italian law, at the forefront in this field, has progressively distinguished personal prevention measures, such as oral notice (a kind of public warning), compulsory repatriation, special surveillance and prohibition of participation in sporting events (the so-called DASPO), from property, such as the seizure and confiscation of assets that are considered of illegal origin. In the specific field in the fight against organised crime, the confiscation of prevention comes in addition to other institutions that have the same name as the confiscation code (Article 240), which instead is called a security measure, because it follows a definitive criminal investigation and concerns the things that they used to commit the crime or that constitute its price or profit. The application of preventive measures does not need to demonstrate the full criminal guilt of the recipient. They do not seek to suppress a real crime, established by guarantees, but also by time and costs, of the criminal trial; they aim - as the expression itself says - to prevent it. In short, the Italian law now has a very sophisticated and tried-and-tested toolbox for the fight against mafias, which ensures timeliness and effectiveness and, at the same time, sufficient guarantees for the recipient, since they are still measures on which the judge's union is full. In addition to the ascending side, which leads to the confiscation of property to the mafias, there is also a descendant, which concerns how and when those goods return to the community and are destined for public utility. Here comes into play the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of the seized and confiscated property, whose director, the Prefect Postiglione, has been appointed for a few days. I wish him a good job and wish him a clean and fearless return to the opaque management of the recent past. Once the confiscation has been arranged, it is up to the Agency to administer the good and allocate it to the public benefit, now through management, now through sale. It is not always easy: the economic and commercial reality must be faced day by day, with skills, skills, talents and courage, which vary from area to area, from well to well. Confiscating agricultural land in Sicily is not the same as confiscating an enterprise in the center of Rome, and reconciling the necessary administrative procedures that require transparency and the timing of public action with the cunningness and acumen required by the times of the market is no small thing. The encounter of these worlds, the pathologies that both are able to reveal lead to the paradoxes of which we read in the newspapers: the goods of the Mafioso Lo Sicco given in management to his lawyer; the great Grigoli heritage, which would have the means to go on even on a lawful path and which instead is allowed to fail; the land of the Calabrian clans cultivated by the descendants of those same clans who are not yet held. In the report there is a mention, insufficient in fact, because little detail, to the Agency's database, which should be the registry of the assets seized and confiscated and should allow them to know in real time their legal, economic and conservation status. This is a scandalous case on which the Commission of Inquiry should make full use of its powers: it appears that about EUR 7 million has been spent to prepare the database but that the result has not yet been achieved. This is an unprecedented matter of gravity, the implications of which need to be carefully explored in order to bring out responsibilities and ineptities. This work must be done by the Commission of Inquiry, otherwise the judiciary will have to do it directly, and the perpetrators will have to respond before the law and the treasury. Two legislative proposals have been submitted in this matter which could partially remedy the difficulties: one is the Senate Act No 1210, aimed at establishing at the Ministry of Justice a national Register of judicial administrators and administrators of confiscated property, with precise requirements for professionalism and good repute of the same and with the forecast of clear incompatibility and prohibitions of cumulation of duties; the other, the Senate Act No 1366, aimed at concentrating in a few judicial fora the competence for decisions on prevention measures, so as not to disperse the activity of proposal in thousand places. I hope the Senate discusses them soon. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there is always the urgency of introducing the crime of autocycling. Allow me to mention the Italian Presidency of the European Union: I hope that this will provide an opportunity to convince the other countries of the Union that the directive is unfortunately not enough and prevention measures are an indispensable tool for attacking the mafia accumulation, regardless of criminal responsibility. The mafia enterprise, especially that of the 'ndrangheta, is now very similar to that, so to speak, ordinary: it counts the family patrimony more than the individual; it counts the success of the brand rather than the ambition of the individual affiliate. The intimidating force lies more in the implicit that that mark communicates than in concrete threatening conducts, which also often do not lack. Preventive measures are therefore essential because they attack the stuff, before and regardless of the person's guilt. I close, Madam President, and take the opportunity for some names thanks, because they are necessary after the positive conclusion in Cassazione of the process resulting from the operation "Crimine infinito" (infinite crime), which is so much part of recent history in the fight against the mafia of my Region, Lombardy: I thank Ilda Boccassini, Alessandra Dolci, Paolo Storari, Salvatore Bellomo and then Nicola Gratteri, Giuseppe Pignatone and Michele Prestipino [[Applause from Senator Morra]] Together with them I am grateful to the magistrates committed by the successive degrees of judgment, to the judicial police officers for their undefeited work, determined and passionate in the investigation, and to all of you have collaborated with dedication, often with courageous silence and sometimes in solitude. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u24	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Mafia? It is not just a matter of public order, but primarily a political, social and cultural issue. What is the Mafia, if not total deafness to the voice of one's conscience to follow wickedness, thus turning his back on man? What is the Mafia, if not the infidelity to the project of goodness and beauty that the human being can achieve? What is the Mafia, if not a world closed in its own ideas, also finding justification in its own evil action? What's the mob? If not an anti-state, something that, even through it, distorts the State thus creating injustice, and injustice creates pain, pain to man, pain to the inhabitants of the country. I do not speak only of Italy, for the Mafia is that way of acting and being that makes clear the evil that is in man; it makes it clear because the evil of the heart becomes the action that corrupts, takes away, kills and represses. It is the hymn to arrogance and arrogance that becomes flesh. Today this evil has widened its action and operates through a significant penetration and camouflage in the healthy fabric of society and economy; then we must attack the assets of organized crime, but we must work to return them to the community. Thinking about the reuse of property confiscated from organised crime is today a priority and a challenge that we must face and overcome, because re-use must become a real opportunity to create work and development. We cannot afford to allow the thought that a property run by the Mafia creates work and confiscated by the State to rest in someone's mind, that work destroys it. We are there, we have always been there from the first day, and you know it: you know how much you want to do, and do well, with how much passion, dedication, presence, we dedicate ourselves to the work of parliamentarians. It is no longer the time to waste time; the country is in a hurry to relive and we are here to revive it. We are looking for men of good will who want to lay the foundations for the construction of new relationships that, however, place the work and dignity of the people at the centre. We need to update the legislative tools to re-use companies confiscated from the Mafia by restarting them in order to safeguard employment levels through the continuity of production activity. We've been there, we've been there all along, right from the start. We must fight the Mafia, therefore we must fight this political, social and cultural issue. See that being a mafia is to be corrupt, and to be corrupt is to close oneself; to be fixed in one's own things, to find justification, and to be annoyed by those who work in good and so to be convinced that it is better to take out, with every instrument, those who annoy. Living in corruption leads to one's own logic of necessity: This is necessary... for the good of all..., the work is now underway and it is necessary to move forward. At what cost? Is anyone in pain? And can this suffering be avoided by actions free from corruption? Then we must also have the intelligence - not to call it pity - to return to our own steps. And so, yes, we are talking about new rules to make the best use of the property confiscated from the Mafia, but we no longer want to see here in Parliament that the penalties are lowered to the political-mafia electoral exchange, we no longer want to see that it derogates from the anti-mafia legislation for the reconstruction of the Eagle, for the TAV in Val di Susa and for the reclamations in the Land of Fires. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Needless to be men of good manners if you then have bad habits. Let each of us ask this question and do not choke it after a few hours: once I have two meters of land in my face, will I have money, vanity, power, and pride with me? What is the Mafia then? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u26	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u27	Madam President, on behalf of the Mixed Left Group, I consider this dual sitting, today in the Senate and yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies, to be very important, on behalf of the Group of the European Left Ecology and Freedom, and to discuss the report by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. In announcing our vote in favour of the final motion for a resolution, I note that an important debate such as this has not taken place in the two branches of Parliament for many years, and I would like to thank, on behalf of my Group, the Presidents of the House and the Senate, in particular the President of the anti-Mafia Commission, Rosy Bindi, whom I think has given the Commission a useful and positive approach over the past few months, as well as all those who have contributed actively to the drafting of the report and the hearings that preceded it, up to the National Anti-Mafia Directorate and the District Directorates. We have unanimously considered that today we need to intervene on the issue of confiscated property, because we think that, many years after the adoption of the so-called Rognoni-La Torre law, and then of Law No. 109 of 1996, several critical issues have emerged to remedy. Of that law, which really was one of the most important of the entire republican history, the basic principle remains safe and always current, and also the intuition underlying it: that in order to combat criminal organizations effectively we must strike and attack their heritage, the wealth accumulated in lawlessness, which are not simply for mafias sums of money and movable and immovable property, but also and above all instruments with which to develop social consent; moreover, that restoring those riches to the State is fundamental, but it becomes decisive if that practice is not accompanied by what the General Dalla Chiesa said in very clear and clear words: we will defeat the mafia when the State will ensure those rights that the mafia grants instead as favors. The intuition of that law and then of the law n. 109 launched in 1996, starting from a great initiative of popular law promoted by the Free Association, was such that our country is today at the forefront for anti-mafia legislation in the entire continental landscape, which today sees Europe to arrange and still be too often unable to develop initiatives of contrast just as adapted to those in force in our country. That synergy so profound between civil society and political representation, which was the basis of the measures that in past years helped to strike at the heart of criminal organizations, to crack their social prestige and to put in crisis the consensus that more and more had on the entire national territory, not only in the South, but also in the Centre and in the North of the country, needs today in our opinion a new impulse, probably starting from the need to make the same time for the allocation of assets confiscated to the Municipalities, or directly to the associations, much less long and dispersed than has happened in recent years, imagining also certain resources for investments that can allow the conversion of the use of the good. But there is also a further point of reflection, in our opinion, which was also authoritatively recalled in yesterday's debate in the House, namely that the mafia for years has accumulated what Giovanni Verga would have called "the stuff," that is, real estate, houses, palaces, land, gardens, property, but this is the known paradigm of a remote time, even of a prehistoric time, when precisely the mobster still carried the coppola and the lupara. The paradigms of Mafia accumulation have now changed completely, with a transformation that has seen criminal organizations as the most capable interpreters of the time of globalization, through a capacity for intervention and penetration, even in the legal economy, until recently completely unpublished. Today the mafia invests not simply in the accumulation of the stuff, but mainly in intangible assets, in sovereign funds, in companies. And then seizing an asset to the mafia, in order to return it to the community, means - for example - to pose the problem of the maintenance of a productive activity, to be interested in the fact that it produces jobs that must be protected and, therefore, inevitably adapt the instruments with which we intervene. The proposals that this report makes have been very shared, and are actions aimed at modifying, first, those critical issues contained in the same anti-mafia code approved in 2011, which precisely presents limitations and shortcomings. That is why we consider it useful to take action on prevention measures, by setting up special sections both at first and at second level. That is why we want to change the principle of territorial competence, also to avoid those delays that have marked the history of recent years. That is why we still think that the principle of third-party protection should be adapted by going beyond the fallacy. That is why, finally, we think that Article 24 should be amended so that tax evasion can no longer be used for reasons of justification and, above all, that the Agency for Confiscated Goods should be radically reformed. In recent years there has been a definite ability to strike at criminal assets and to carry out kidnappings, but a much less effective return of those assets to society, thus risking not to put into crisis, not to harm, not to affect the prestige of the criminal organization. On the other hand, we must intervene strongly on the Agency and on the Single Fund for Justice. This, today, collects the confiscated liquidity, but can only use a very small part of it, however, at the very same time that - as we know - there is a lack of funds to finance essential sectors in the fight against organised crime. In the same way the criticalities of the Agency are before everyone's eyes, since in this case too the return of the goods to the company is attested on minimal percentages. The government's choice, from this point of view, to appoint, last Friday, the new director seems untimely to us, and certainly not for the personal qualities of the Prefect Postiglione, to whom of course our wish goes for good work, but because - in our opinion - it would have been much more just listening than the anti-Mafia Commission has said in recent months, in particular pointing out the need to cope with the lack of a database, that is, of those data sure and essential to know the fate of the confiscated property. I think we should give the Agency a new mandate, which also requires another spirit, as well as other competences. I still think that we must take effective action on the issue of the operation of companies and the need to preserve jobs. The sale must only be residual, and for this reason we need the help of all aware, even of the banking system, too often ready to grant credit to the company collusa and, instead, too often unable to do the same with the State. The financial circuit must also play its part. These goods must return to producing income and social wealth. I would like to conclude by saying that today's is indeed an important step in the fight against organised crime and against the mafia organisations, which obviously need repression, we need laws, we need the state's presence, but we also need that symbolic alphabet that we need to build, also to hit that grey area in the legal economy that recent news events have once again shown. The mafia takes away her job, takes away her dignity and takes her life. The ultimate task of this Parliament, the Republic and the unity of the democratic forces is to restore all this: not simply return a good or a wealth to civil society; not simply return the work to those who have lost it, but above all restore dignity. Well, if today can also be simply a contribution to this cause, then it will not have been wasted time. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u28	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u29	Madam President, the Commission's anti-mafia report consists of a whole series of proposals which cannot be reduced to a single objective, unless we consider ourselves to be a single objective, and do not consider it justified, to strengthen in a comprehensive and general way the action to prevent and combat the formation of illicit capital. From this point of view, the Commission's anti-mafia proposal is perfectly acceptable, because acting on different plans achieves precisely this only result. It must be said that it acts in terms of the efficiency of the prevention process when, for example, it limits issues of incompetence per territory, allowing them to be decided in a single context and that it is not possible, in the successive stages of the judgment, and above all of the judgment of legitimacy, to cause delays in those decisions, which would undoubtedly create a decrease in efficiency. The Commission's anti-mafia proposal acts on this same ground when it rightly considers that it is giving the anti-mafia prosecutor ownership of the preventive action, in order to determine a kind of welding of the investigations carried out locally and then hesitated in a preventive action at this point exercised also at national level. The proposal acts on the ground, which is also extremely welcome, of the preservation of confiscated property when it allows the suspension of the revocation of a measure that acts, precisely, by withdrawing a previous confiscation, since it obviously wants to avoid that the return of the property in an intertrial phase can determine the loss, the dispersion through actions of fictitious header, that is, of dilapidation of the assets, if to mobilize. The report of the Anti-Mafia Commission is particularly incisive when it sees the possibility of a new, unprecedented measure of prevention: that of the extraordinary administration, to be applied to companies, assets, real estate summaries that are not directly or indirectly owned by criminal organizations, but that are already characterized by a mature process of criminal infiltration, that is those situations characterized by a condition of subjecting the administrators of a given heritage to criminal organizations that have, nevertheless, already infiltrated the administration of those real estate assemblies and that precisely provides for a certain length of judicial administration, aimed at eradicating the phenomenon of mafia infiltration. It then solves a vexed question, on which the united sections of the Court of Cassation have recently intervened, establishing that the possible share of revenues to be attributed to tax evasion cannot be adduced as justification for a possible judgment of disproportion between the property owned and the economic activities carried out. As we can easily consider, therefore, the proposal coming from the anti-mafia Commission addresses a whole range of issues, not excluding that of the protection of third parties; and third parties should not be understood as the third parties concerned, but rather as those who are harmed by the unblamed prevention action. As well as that provision which, in order to avoid opposing judgments by the European Court of Human Rights, protects the exercise of the right of defence from its origin, allowing the defendant, even if held, to participate in the judgment of prevention. This is a story that has its roots in the ambiguous origin of the prevention process, already in the code of the 1930 process, precisely, celebrated with the forms of the chamber rite, and therefore of all those ambiguities, but also reductions of guarantees and margins of defense, which inevitably characterized, but which still characterize, the celebration of judgment with the so-called chamber forms. We know that the Constitutional Court, recently, in compliance with Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights, has made it possible, even at the request of the person concerned, of the prejudice, for the judgment to be celebrated by public means. The Commission also intervenes in this particularly sensitive area, establishing that the prejudice can participate, even if held, from the first moment. So it is a set of balanced initiatives, if you look also in the direction of allowing the prisoner to participate in the trial; which, precisely, because of a combined arrangement of rules that would be too complicated here to recall, might not have been guaranteed. But what I think is most important, and recently recalled by Senator De Cristofaro, is that concerning the use of assets confiscated from the Mafia. A qualifying aspect is certainly the one aimed at regulating not only the remuneration of the administrator appointed by the delegated judge, but above all what seems to be a trend that should be affirmed, that is, that no more than an administration that brings the property confiscated to the mafia in a condition of decoction, that is, the idea that it is said, that it should be better supported in the future, according to which a assets confiscated to the mafia must be made available to civil society, and when a company is administered it must be done looking not at the conclusion of the economic activities that that the company manages, but at the profit of an administration aimed at maintaining the level of employment and especially at that idea that which lies in so many decisions of the Court of Cassation, that is, we confiscate in order to remove an asset from a criminal circuit, but to return it to a circuit of legality. And when an asset is returned to a legal circuit it must be returned to the ideal conditions so that that asset allows the maintenance of employment levels, at this point for the benefit of civil society. But above all, this administration of capital summaries, of companies, of companies takes place according to those economic criteria of productivity and increase of the revenues of the companies in such a way that not only avoids the good to a criminal circuit, but it is usefully given to a circuit of legality. With these considerations, which are brief, but I think sufficiently, they go through some of the proposals - certainly not all of them - contained in the report by the Anti-Mafia Commission, the New Right Centre, which will also take part in the explanation of vote, certainly expresses its support for the content of the report. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Torrisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u30	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u31	Madam President, already other speakers before me have summarised the genesis and evolution of the legislation and the overall structure and scope of the report. What this report shows is that this plant needs to be adapted to counter the power of the Mafia powers with an even more organised and efficient model of prevention and asset contrast. It is now clear that in order to strike at the heart the mafias through the aggression of illicit assets it is necessary to consider as inseparable moments both the phase of the actual aggression (that of the investigations, the identification, the seizure and the subsequent confiscation) and that of the destination of the assets thus confiscated. This awareness is even more necessary in order to find contrasting legislative techniques where the complexity of the phenomenon of the mafias is framed, as the studies of Umberto Santino help us to understand, as a real new social block that tries to assert itself. The Mafia, as Santino writes, is now a group of criminal organizations (...) that act within a vast and ramified relational context, configuring a system of violence and illegality aimed at the accumulation of capital and the acquisition and management of positions of power, which makes use of a cultural code and enjoys a certain social consensus. In other words, we are faced with a real new social class, the so-called Mafia bourgeoisie. Of this reading of the phenomenon, it can be found tragic confirmation in vast areas of the South and especially in those more socially backward, as in Calabria. That is why it is time to understand what direction and substance we want to give to the fight against the mob. What the Anti-Mafia Commission has done is a first step. We must start not only by considering it in terms of military confrontation, but also by looking at it in a more articulated perspective of development. If this is to be the second analysis, as I - and not just myself, of course - support, then we must clearly say that the current situation sees this class, not only criminal, progressively institutionalize itself in vast areas of our country. As all studies remind us, the economy of our Mezzogiorno is not open to international markets, just as the area is totally ignored by foreign investment. Among the factors that hinder the process of economic adjustment of the South and its level of attractiveness there is the presence of a deep-rooted and widespread organized crime that opposes democratic institutions and becomes a real alternative to them, and weighs like a boulder. It is, moreover, a crime that is increasingly spreading towards the regions of the Centre-North and Europe, increasing the areas of reinvestment in the legal economies. The mafia has become, therefore, economy, and in some areas, especially Calabria, a real society opposed and alternative to the democratic one, operating - thanks to those financial resources illegally accumulated - as an enterprise and institution, making use of two important competitive advantages: it has no limits in the financial resources it has and exercises the blackmail of violence and intimidation against citizens. These resources, however, do not reinvest them in the territory - even if draining it - if not in small part and just to keep the chain strong and strong, but in the rich markets of the North. It alters the game of free competition, eliminating honest entrepreneurs from economic competition through attacks and extortion and excluding from the economic game those who do not bend. The lack of meritocracy, which a society with a high spread of illegality suffers, is then reflected in bureaucracy - at all levels - and, therefore, in the provision of services to citizens and businesses. Organised crime operates by imposing entrepreneurial choices on suppliers, labour and markets, when it does not become an enterprise itself, through a network made up of many small enterprises owned by members - typically characterised by consanguinity - of the same criminal family or forerunners. In an economy so conditioned and protected by mafias, even non-collusi entrepreneurs are thus induced to conduct not inspired by the pursuit of economic efficiency, suffering the constraints of the context. It is an invasive phenomenon that also extends to local administrations - where, as well as conditioning the vote, it enters directly with its men - and to public companies, especially in the health sector, the new frontier of the mob attack and, not by chance, an increasingly heavy voice of local public spending. It is a real cancer that is destroying even hopes in the South. That is why, in addition to the approved reform of 416-b (which must be amended on the penalty side), it would be necessary to intervene also when the democratic consensus is formed, guaranteeing genuine voting rights with a reform of the so-called Law Lazzati, bringing the current text of 6 October 2010 back to the original text, as I brought to the attention of this assembly on 10 April 2013 with the bill n. 455 which lies, pending, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because there the vote is not free. The time is short, because the perverse mafia-business-political interweaving, after having produced extremely negative consequences for the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno - especially in the long term - is now fast, also because of the serious economic crisis spreading metastases also in other areas of Italy, conditioning the very growth of the Country; even if to pay the greatest consequences they continue to be the Southern Regions, that already before the crisis had a high degree of distribution inequality compared to the Regions of the Centre-North, being more exposed to the risk of poverty. A social situation - as repeatedly denounced - that is fertile ground for political-mafia control. In the South, in fact, one in two people of working age is completely unrelated to the regular labour market, not only because they do not have a job, but also because they do not follow the usual channels of job search. An army of over six and a half million people participating in a precarious reality, which produces a game to the bottom of the rights, proper to the mafia economy. The greater spread of black labour in the Mezzogiorno, therefore, must be attributed to a more fragile production structure, but also to the presence of economic and social conditions favourable to the growth of the irregular economy; in particular, the existence of an economy set on account of third parties and the difficulty of access to credit. This is accompanied by the weight of a welfare culture, which in some sectors - particularly construction and agriculture - has led to an increase in the supply of irregular work by persons receiving some form of social assistance. The data tell us - and I do not tire of repeating it - of a South Italy in which more than 45% of the irregular work is present, and of a Calabria that presents an irregularity of more than 25% on the South average, confirming the role played by the submerged as compensation for the inefficiencies and delays of a production system never born. The mafias, precisely in recruiting the workforce, in the backwardness of a submerged and illegal economy, gain strength and consensus at the expense of legal institutions, also due to the weakening of the role of intermediate bodies - such as trade unions and parties - that cannot compete with the mafia in the territory, when they are not part of this perverse game that perpetuates its situation. Despite the successes of the forces of order in the repression of the criminal phenomenon, the mafias, alas, provide in the Mezzogiorno an alternative to the lack of work of the citizens, reaping proselytes among the new generations, now coming not only from poor families and at a lower level of education - fruit of the school leaving that in those areas is still high, above the national average, and certainly European - but now also from that middle class composed of free professionals and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the so-called grey zone. The widespread control of vast areas of our South by criminal organizations also contributes to a deteriorating image at national and international level, as well as to constitute a reason for the flight of qualified human resources and ultimately to cause a not optimal allocation of public and private resources. The need to relaunch a policy of development of the Mezzogiorno therefore seems indispensable, if not vital, both for a revival of the economy of our country, and to free us, once and for all, from the game of the mafias. A revival, therefore, that must necessarily start from the fight against the myopia as well as from the inefficiency of the public administration and the resumption of the investments in infrastructures, generally eco-compatible, connected to the safeguard of the territory from the hydrogeological disaster that afflicts atavically our South: factors, these, that contribute to the competitive gap between the South and the North. In the light of these notes, even more pregnant appear the words of sociologist Giovanni Colussi, who reminds us how it is necessary to integrate the fight against the Mafia in an organic way in development policies, in which the story of confiscated property can be an extraordinary resource, of symbolic nature but also and above all of economic relief. A concrete and tangible response to the power that is taken away from the mafias and reinvested in society through an alternative model to the Mafia culture. An intervention that, we might say, would achieve some sort of efficient reuse of legality. It would represent a manifestation of the democratic state of exercise, as well as of the power of law enforcement and control, finally of development policies, through the re-use of the proceeds of criminal activities, in a situation, such as the current one, of scarce resources. To date, however, despite the meritorious progress, the law enforcement activity tells us of a heritage stolen from the mafia that is worth more than a financial: the Agency counts (data 2013) about 113,000 assets, of which more than 41,000 confiscated (15,400 definitely). This figure includes land and buildings burdened by mortgages (when not damaged irretrievably) and occupied in various ways or indivisible and/or confiscated only in part, but, above all, enterprises, the very large part of which is initiated into liquidation. Why, then, not exploit this immense heritage by making it available for those social purposes put into nothing by organized crime? That is what the Anti-Mafia Commission has tried to respond to with the work done in this report. That against the Mafia is a war of liberation in vast areas of our country - as Don Panizza calls it - that we risk losing, if we do not show ourselves able to do better than the criminal managements of that heritage: we will not be credible, if we regret the mob exploitation. The work done by the Commission, which we have shared, I believe has been fruitful - as other colleagues who have spoken before me have pointed out their attempts to improve - both for identifying the lights (even following extensive hearings of the stakeholders, and with all the difficulties in starting the work of the anti-mafia Commission in this legislature), and for identifying the difficulties of the overall system and, above all, for having in such a short time given some clear corrective indications, demonstrating that, when this Parliament wants, it can work well. A work - I repeat - that has been shared by all political forces and that we now put in the hands of the Government and Parliament so that these indications become norms for the whole country. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u32	Senator Capacchione is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u33	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are two farms in the land of the Mazzoni - the buffalo mozzarella, if you like, which today coincides with that of the fires - which are the emblem of the substantial failure of the State in the management of the confiscated property. One, Ferrandelle, is in Santa Maria la Fossa; the other, Selvalunga, in Grazzanise: both belonged to the Schiavone family, at the head of the Casalesi clan. When he had taken possession of the first, the colonist who had run it all his life had died of heartbreak. Ferrandelle had been seized for the first time in 1991, confiscated in 1994 and, only four years later, acquired from the State's assets. The value, when it was bought, was 10 billion lire; today it is worth less than zero because, during the 2008 waste emergency, it has been transformed, without even the most elementary safety work, into a landfill of waste of all kinds, sinking on the groundwater, which since then has been polluted. The other was a company of great value; it was worth 10 million euros until 2002, the year of confiscation. It was the toy of the boss's wife, who raised more than a thousand buffaloes in the enclosures, sold to dairy farmers in the area. However, when the State took possession of it, in May of that year, it had to settle only for the Dominican value of the land - 100,000 euros - and for two donkeys, the only animals that survived inedia and diseases. Three months earlier, 300 buffaloes had been counted, all of which died of brucellosis. Both Ferrandelle and Selvalunga are in Campania the monument to the inefficiency of the state machine, which was able to transform a victory into a burning defeat. The two Caserta companies are just a few of the hundreds of companies that have been stolen from the Mafia and become unproductive. It is a disease that the Agency has not been able to cure. The report of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, which we are discussing today in the Senate, deals with the genesis of the legislation on kidnappings and confisches, a normative innovation cost the life of those who proposed it, Pio La Torre, and highlights the role of grimaldello in the effective clearing of the economic power of the mafias, power necessary for the creation of consensus. It proposes some solutions to the critical issues that emerged during the hearings in the Commission and above all - in my opinion - devotes an important chapter to the exemplary and didactic role of the confiscs of productive companies, but they must remain so entering the legal work circuit, producing wealth and offering jobs in compliance with the rules of the market. As unfortunately is teaching the experience gained from important Sicilian productive realities - such as, for example, the Riela transport - the lack of organicity between the interventions of the state and those of the credit has shown that those same companies deprived of the ability to alter the market with the re-utilization of money of illicit origin and the imposition of supplies have not been able to compete with the competition: nine out of ten have failed, in the majority of the cases because of participations broken down of the bank and financial circuit, the first to ask for the return of loans and entrusts when the Mafia owner takes over the administration of the State, almost to emphasize that the confidence granted to the first had knowingly supported by guarantees submitted and invisible, but well known to the same system. Those credit openings become, in most cases, the instrument to attack the available assets, asserting the position of third-party creditor in good faith. Not always, however (as the investigations reveal), we can speak of good faith of the banks; for this reason, the rewriting of the rule that safeguards, as prescribed also by a very recent judgment of the Court of Cassation filed on 20 May last, the creditor actually damaged and not, indiscriminately, any creditor. It is a reading of the norm that has produced the putting into liquidation of Riela transports, to safeguard - by paradox - another mob company of the same owner subsequently kidnapped. Therefore, in order to transform the confiscated assets into social wealth, it is essential that banks also network and participate in the project of competitive recovery of those same companies, encouraging investments and financing their legal recovery. In fact, each of them that fails represents a point to the Mafia's advantage. This is a challenge that cannot be lost. At the same time, there is the establishment of a register of judicial administrators, who must have specific management and managerial skills and whose fees must be determined by law, and judicial control, a sort of preventive commission that in cases of less marked mafia infiltrations can safeguard business know-how and jobs, especially in areas (such as the southern regions) where youth unemployment has reached 60% and the mafia option still ends up being the only one able to guarantee income. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Capacchione, excuse me, but - even for the purpose of reporting - you should approach the microphone, because you don't hear your voice well. CAPACCHIONE (PD). Yeah, I'm sorry. In conclusion, I would stress that this is a scandalous privilege that we cannot and no longer intend to tolerate. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u34	The debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency has received and has been distributed the motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senators Zanda, Buccarella, Sacconi, De Petris, Bitonci, Zeller, Romano, Susta and others. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u35	Madam President, the Government welcomes motion for a resolution No 1 and very much appreciates the work of the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission, which offers us a very advanced contribution on a relevant subject, voted unanimously and further enriched by the debate that has developed here. The theme of the reform of the Confiscated Property Agency has been present for a long time, because in many circumstances we have witnessed paradoxical situations, which have been mentioned here. However, such situations must not lead us to deal with this issue superficially and following the commonplaces. Often the companies run by the mafia do not operate under market conditions: often those companies serve to recycle money or to carry out activities of conditioning of the legal economy, and therefore it is not said that it is always possible, through the recovery to a legal dimension, to return conditions of economicity to those activities. Nevertheless, it is necessary to have the ability and the strength to evaluate those circumstances and to seek the most effective solutions, not only in order not to lose the value that the company expresses through the heritage, the presence on the market and the job that it manages to guarantee, but also in order to represent in an emblematic and evident way a return to the collective dimension, and therefore to the social value, of companies constituted through illegal activities. The fundamental objective that must accompany the action of the Agency must be in the double sense, in the double value, in the double meaning: to restore value to economic initiatives, to give back to the social and collective function those assets unlawfully constituted and, at the same time, to take away from the criminal organizations that space of initiative and activity that, as has been mentioned, in many parts of Italy significantly affects the legal activity. We must be fully aware of the challenge facing us. It is a decisive game, since the police forces and the judiciary, through the use of that instrument put in place by Parliament, strongly wanted by Pio La Torre and supported by the then Minister of Interior Rognoni, have been able to achieve unimaginable results, which have rewarded the determination of Pio La Torre and the anti-mafia movement that demanded the approval of such an effective instrument. Today we must achieve an identical objective in terms of the legal, civil and social valorisation of that heritage. There have been cases of successes and failures: the report by the Anti-Mafia Commission indicates cases of success but also of failure, which have also been mentioned here tonight. The failure of Group 6 GDO does not depend, it must be acknowledged, on the lack of capacity of the Agency for confiscated property: it was decided in a completely autonomous way, in the face of an instance, by the court, and we are all sorry that this could have happened, precisely because we were close to solving the problem. After a long work, in fact, were identified solutions able to restore value to that distribution network and above all to solve the much more complicated problem of the logistic platform that is part of that business compendium. It was not possible to save those jobs. We must feel committed so that the goods stolen from the Mafia can generate new wealth and can also feed a civil economy able to support those efforts to spread the culture of legality and to demonstrate, especially in the most marginalized and marginalized territories of our country, that acting legally agrees, because the benefits deriving from legal activities are much greater, much safer, much longer lasting than what can be achieved through illegality. As the Anti-Mafia Commission has said in several circumstances and as has been mentioned here, there is a direct relationship between criminal activity governed by mafias and corruption, fragility of local authorities and in many situations the inability to guarantee, on the one hand, the free exercise of market activities and, on the other hand, the regulatory functions that public institutions should be able to ensure. It is therefore an important battle against which the Agency must be able to propose itself as an agile, effective instrument, so as to feed those virtuosities, which have also been pointed out by the Commission, through the intelligent and sustainable re-use of assets. We must take priority in the public re-use of those resources and we must act so that the Agency can make use of all the existing instruments; therefore, do not create a new bureaucracy and new structures, but put in place a programming capacity, a performance verification capacity, a capacity to coordinate the activities that the various institutional and social actors must undertake. The examples that are often cited indicate this happy convergence between the commitment of non-profit associations and the commitment of social cooperation, in particular, in order to determine, through the use of property confiscated from the mafia, new levels of civilization, social integration and taking care of weak and fragile subjects. We, however, must be able to assess these aspects with rigour. In fact, we must avoid failures. It has already been said: it must not be possible to find an inability of the State to effectively manage the assets stolen from the Mafia. Companies that are taken from the mafia must have levels of efficiency, competitiveness and innovation that are far greater than those practised by the mafia itself, because they must be able to use an added value, consisting of collective participation, the support that local communities must be able to guarantee to those initiatives, in order to free themselves from the mafia domination. For this reason, this is an important challenge. I think it is important that the motion for a resolution also points to the need to set up specific support instruments, especially for workers and companies which must be returned to their productive function. There is so much work to be done: the report, voted unanimously, is a very important signal for the Government. We want to make that commitment very carefully and also very quickly, in the light not only of the work done by Parliament, but also of the findings, also referred to in the report of the Anti-Mafia Commission, of the two Commissions, Fiandaca and Garofoli. They have put at our disposal important assessments that will certainly strengthen the capacity of the State to assert legality, to spread the culture of legality and to put to value those assets and those assets stolen and confiscated from the Mafia, generating a cycle of legal wealth especially in the most unfortunate territories of our country. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u36	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u39	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution, which essentially incorporates the main points of the report on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of seized and confiscated assets approved unanimously in the Anti-Mafia Commission on 9 April, after an excellent work, and which commits the Government to take action, in terms of its own competence, in order to overcome the problems highlighted both from an administrative and regulatory point of view. As has emerged in the course of the general discussion, it is an extremely sensitive and crucial issue for our country, where the instruments to protect the legality and against the mafia, organized crime, the lawlessness widespread: issues that are not only of public order - as the history of our country has shown for some decades - but take on a fundamental political, social, cultural and economic importance. With the pervasive and growing capacity to infiltrate the institutional fabric and the productive system, in all the Italian regions now and even at European level, playing a leading role in world organized crime, especially in drug trafficking, the mafia phenomenon - with it the 'ndrangheta, camorra and other criminal organizations - not only pollutes public institutions, undermining democratic and decision-making mechanisms, but, in fact, alters the rules of economic action and the functioning of the market, thus slowing down the growth and competitiveness of our country. 18.07 (Susta follow). It, in fact, representing a strong distortion of free competition, ends up curbing the growth and competitiveness of entire areas of the country, penalising healthy companies and especially discouraging foreign investment flows. The merit of the careful and in-depth work carried out - also through numerous hearings of relevant institutional actors - has been to address the issue of the fight against mafias precisely by focusing on the heart of the problem, i.e. on how to strengthen the discipline of the action of the patrimonial contrast to organized crime and how to improve the efficiency of the system of management of the seized and confiscated assets: on the one hand, therefore, by isolating the mafia system with respect to water where it splashes better and, on the other hand, by restoring to the citizens, to all of us, the goods that have been the subject of the feeding of that perverse interweaving between politics, business and organized crime that has brought our country to its knees. For this we thank the President, Rosy Bindi, and all the colleagues who have been involved in the Commission over the past few months. In fact, we fully share the observation that the best response that the state can give is to take away from crime the assets and assets illegally acquired and return them to legality and, by safeguarding employment, to put companies back in the healthy economic circuit, avoiding that criminal organizations can pollute the mechanisms of functioning of the free market. Let's remember that the first pieces of this strategic approach were the Rognoni-La Torre law, as many have mentioned here, and, subsequently, the law on the management and the destination of the confiscated property, widely invoked by public opinion. After years, it is clear that corrective action is needed in the complex discipline, which is disorganic, because, as highlighted in the report, it is the fruit of the stratification of rules elaborated in hiccups and often in emerging contexts that the application practices have tried to harmonize with results that are not always satisfactory and lacking, since it is no longer adequate, to a phenomenon that, over the years, has decidedly changed in strategies, even from a qualitative point of view, so to speak. An adequate and efficient response, in fact, cannot fail to take into account the transformations that, over time, have gone through the mafia phenomenon, as well as the dimensions that the same has assumed in our country. On the other hand, the same anti-mafia code does not offer instruments for the effective coordination of the phase of aggression with that of the destination of the assets seized and confiscated. The ratio of the proposals for reform is to ensure not only the effective allocation of real estate and their restructuring and use, but above all the operation of companies seized and confiscated from the mafia, also with a view to safeguarding employment levels in a time of severe economic crisis. Without going into the merits of the individual changes proposed and that, with the approval - certainly unanimous, at least I hope - of the motion for a resolution we declare that we share, I think it is important to safeguard the social value of the use of property confiscated from the mafia, thus keeping the central pivot of the law n. 109 of 1996 which, especially in some territories of the country, represented a turning point in the relationship between public opinion and the fabric in which until then the clans had operated. To subtract the huge assets earned by criminal activities from the clans and return them to the community for public, social and civil purposes also means to give a signal of hope to those who work daily, with self-denial and trust, to combat the systems of widespread illegality. Finally, it is essential to draw attention to the need for our country, during the next six months of the European Presidency, to place at the centre of its agenda the need to call for a commitment of the whole of Europe in the fight against mafias, also in order to harmonise models of prevention and asset contrast, in order to make them more coordinated and efficient: and on this very point the Commission should approve a new report this evening. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u42	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I would like to express my thanks for the thorough work carried out by the Anti-Mafia Commission. The report we are debating today and the motion for a resolution which makes it clear how the mafias have evolved financially, changing their way of accumulating wealth and increasingly penetrating the sectors of entrepreneurship. Although the Rognoni-La Torre law, at the time of its adoption, represented a fundamental and innovative bulwark for the fight against organized crime of the mafia type, today it is absolutely necessary to adapt it to the investigative needs and to contrast to the new mafias. The point I would like to make, and which I was pleased to see referred to as the subject of reform in the Commission's report, is that of the protection of third parties. It is essential to provide for regulatory mechanisms aimed at ensuring the continuation of the management of the businesses that are being seized and confiscated. We absolutely cannot afford, as is all too often the case, to allow judicial administrators to become mere liquidators of economic realities destined for closure. It would be a deleterious and counterproductive message, especially for workers in those companies. It's certainly not easy. Specific skills and qualifications are needed, but this is also possible through the provision of a National Agency to give practical support to judicial administrations. This must be the Agency's new mission for seized and confiscated property. I believe that the proposals contained in the report, and reiterated in the motion for a resolution also signed by my Group, go in this direction and are undoubtedly to be shared and supported. Finally, I want to address the issue of the resources that flow into the Single Justice Fund. Beyond the proposals set out in the report, what needs to be ensured is the effective use of these resources. At the end of November 2013, pending the closure of the end of the year accounts, approximately 978 million liquid resources and 2.1 billion non-liquid resources were deposited in the FUG, sums used today only in a minimal percentage, but that would be vital if addressed to those who, even without means and resources, are always at the forefront in the fight against the mafia. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate has over the years been subject to numerous cuts which could have undermined its indispensable action to combat the Mafia. So why not provide for an indirect self-financing mechanism for the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate from the resources of the Single Justice Fund? And again, why not draw on the Single Justice Fund to draw on the resources needed to employ more and more law enforcement forces to combat mafias? I quote for all 1,700 contest winners, placed in the so-called second rate and no longer passed by the Army to the State Police, although they hold a priority of insertion. What I want to say is that once these economic resources have been taken from the Mafia, they must, even for a symbolic value, be fully returned to the community, in the form of contributions to compensate for the cuts that some sections of the State have suffered and have suffered in recent years: to use the goods stolen from the Mafia to strengthen the fight against the Mafia. Mr President, I should like to end by repeating my applause and my support for the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission, which I consider to be an important step forward in the fight against mafia crime, and I am voting in favour of the Per l'Italia Group's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u45	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Bubbico, my fellow Senators, I have given up speaking in the general debate because on this subject the report by the anti-Mafia Commission and the content of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Heads of Groups are exhaustive in many respects. However, I would like to draw the attention, in particular that of the Government, to a number of issues that, if you do not address the substance beyond the formalisms and aspects of purely formal rigour, will make it problematic to achieve the main objective of a full use of this wealth represented by the assets confiscated from the Mafia organizations. The first question I want to put to the attention of the Government is the question of the time between the seizure of assets and their final confiscation. In this period of time, our experience tells us that these assets are subjected to a process of decay and impoverishment that is definitely necessary for the maintenance of the value of the confiscated property. Therefore, on this issue we must focus not only the regulatory attention, but also the sensibilities of the bodies responsible for the seizure and subsequent confiscation, certainly respecting the guarantees provided in the trial, but at the same time being aware that the time in this case must be short, to safeguard the wealth that is placed in the hands of the State. The second issue that I would like to draw to your attention, Mr Vice-Minister and fellow senators, is the quality of judicial administrators. Of course, the register is useful, but if we do not proceed to a selection that introduces elements of high professional and entrepreneurial quality as well as the characteristic element of entrepreneurial action, that is the risk, these companies, which obviously - as you mentioned, Vice Minister - come from a protected market, very often artificial, run very serious risks. Therefore, a strong entrepreneurial capacity must be provided for judicial administrators. Otherwise, the bureaucratic management of the goods, certainly through strict compliance with the rules, but without the application of what is the criterion of the diligence of the good father of the family, that is - using a rather crude term - of the master's eye that fattens the horse, degrades in a particularly serious way the entrusted heritage. We must certainly introduce, Mr Vice-Minister, a provision of risk capital from liquid assets seized: without enhanced risk capital, in fact, many of these companies and many assets are destined for cancellation. Time passes, employment issues are obvious, in many cases the state's performance is simply procrastinated over time, but those businesses and assets are destined to a rather harmful conclusion. Therefore, making venture capital available alongside an effective entrepreneurial professionalism can make it possible to restore to a legal market position those companies that - I repeat - have lived in a protected and very often illegal market. This capital must guarantee the ability to develop entrepreneurial action, as is necessary for any company, even those companies operating in the legal market. Furthermore, specific instruments must be created for goods which cannot survive under the conditions given, territorial and economic contingency, and which must be alienated, because their maintenance in a situation of uncertainty contributes to their destruction from the point of view of the wealth they represent. For companies it certainly poses, in a serious way, the problem of their relocation without being returned to criminal organizations, which can move within an opaque market to recover the goods through a repurchase of the market itself. There is also - and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen - a non-fiction use of all the goods entrusted to the associations and organizations operating in the field of anti-mafia. In the experience of the Anti-Mafia Commission, we have very often felt that it was difficult for these organisations to maintain the goods, under conditions of actual and concrete economic activity, or to finalise them for effective use of the public interest. We must prevent these goods from being parked without knowing that the parking lot is necessary for their perspective. This problem certainly arises for real estate and businesses, but there is a problem related to the movable assets seized. Too many administrations, Minister, are waiting for the allocation, in particular of cars and means of transport they have requested, and the time is too long. We know that, even in this case, the times contribute to the depletion of the good and deprive, among other things, the State and the public territorial administrations of any property which, on the other hand, should be found on the normal market if the assets seized and confiscated are not made available. We need, therefore, strict management not only formal but also substantial attention to the protection of the good and its consistency and, I repeat, the application of the criterion of diligence of the good father of the family, which is what makes any organization work well. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and Mixed ILC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u48	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Vice-President Gaetti, who today, by presenting the report, represented the Commission's unity in relation to the proposal that we are presenting to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would also like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to thank my colleagues. I am lucky to have colleagues who have a lot of experience in this unfortunately dramatic issue, and I must say that I am learning a lot from them: there are many professionals and sensibilities, and there are also many things that you can learn from colleagues who may have been directly responsible for activities related to investigation and journalism. I believe, however, that it is important to take on the real, daily and immediate aspects as well. Today I listened to important speeches and, in some moments, almost authentic tones. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Parliament is not doing something extraordinary today: I think that it is simply doing its duty, that is to adapt an instrument, but also what we must do out of respect, first of all towards the citizens, and then for those who fight the mafia and the mafia on the front line every day, doing tailings, night shifts and risking their lives, and therefore investigators. It is also a duty to those magistrates who risk their lives every day, so let's not say too many times that we are good, but that we did what we had to do. We had to do this, because it is evident that this is an instrument that is born at a time when the perception of goods was different. He imagined to seize and confiscate mostly real estate, and he didn't imagine that instead the quantity and quality of the property would be so varied that it would make for us so complex the decision of how to administer them and what to do with them. In this respect, I believe the basic philosophy of what has been the evolution of the organized underworld can be found. Among other things, in the last legislature we began to adapt the definition also to foreign mafias, whose presence now in some areas of the country exceeds even for gravity the local mafias. In fact, the quality of organised crime has changed: it is now evident that it is a higher quality, linked to finance, investment, and with this new quality also increases the quality of the assets confiscated. This is no longer the simple campaign, but the company, the company, the commercial or financial activity, in some cases even with collateral banking activities. When we make the choice to make ourselves available to the citizen, thinking of a strong re-use of the confiscated property, we must therefore put ourselves at the same quality level as those who used these assets before. Today's mafias are professional mafias. I think we must now forget the historical image that was seen in the films of the fifties of the mob with the cup and the double: today the mob is in the big palaces of finance, it is in the points of power. I do not forget, because it has been mentioned by a colleague who preceded me, a reasoning that I allowed myself to do and which I propose today, that is that the mafia at the bottom is much smarter than politics, because it has understood that politics counts little; in some cases, therefore, even in many events these days, we realize that the level of the mafia has risen and has lowered the level of corruption by a step. Much less often now the corrupt is the politician, and much more often he is the director-general or the director of the work. In this attack, which becomes so complex, we must be careful to be able to return something that is a huge good, not always perceptible. It is interesting that part of the motion for a resolution which says that we must preserve jobs. However, we must also give back something more, which is not just hope, but the ability, as has been said, to show that we can work honestly (and it is certainly not easy, I insist) even without having to use illegal means to achieve certain objectives. My reflection is very simple, and it is linked once again to the quality of what we propose to the country. The other day, while I was reading the newspapers, I wondered: with the procurement system in Italy, why should the usual five companies pay, as they do, bribes? It's always them anyway. Sorry. At most, we should include reasonings related to something else, because if it is true that certain simplifications lead to the centralization of the contracts and then all the matches are played on the subcontracting means that that private corruption, which sometimes was not so well understood, becomes an essential tool to understand how to affect certain interests. I hope I have not gone too far, Mr President, because it is clear that at the moment when the Commission, doing its duty, believes that it needs to find a new formula, unfortunately at the suggestion of the operators - the Agency has, unfortunately, failed its mission - the new instrument is being proposed. We propose it, and I think there is no need to say whether it is beautiful or ugly: it is neither beautiful nor ugly, it is an instrument that is made contemporary to the needs of the moment, which is required of us, by the magistrates, by the citizens. I do not even go into the matter, I do not want to imagine what the final objectives can be, whether the good should be given to the association or to the entrepreneur of a certain type, or, as has been proposed, to the best entrepreneurs (so we are sure that they will develop). We have the only duty to make available a legislative instrument that is clear, that removes that confusion, which has also been mentioned earlier, of conflict, sometimes between organs of the State, for the assignment, to understand the procedures, and to return to all of us what is a good that must become common. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is in my opinion a small part of the work we are doing together in the Commission, which has been structured on many subjects, and I think I can say now, given the recent history that has touched everyone, that no one can say that they are completely out of it. I think talking about the mafia, the mafia, it also means that no one can throw the first stone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Albertini and Marino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u51	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce our vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, on the basis of the comments I made in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u54	TORRISI (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Bubbico, the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission, during its hearings, investigations and reports, has shown that organised crime is still able to penetrate the healthy sectors of society and the economy. Unfortunately, this is a camouflage ability, suitable to hide in the productive fabric of our society, which allows it to accumulate enormous movable and immovable wealth, both in the national territory and abroad. That is why I think that we must always remind ourselves - and civil society urges us to do so - that the Mafia defeats itself by removing oxygen, that is, the economic heritage that gives it power, reason and guarantee of survival. The same data provided by the Ministry of Justice tells us that organized crime is able to own and manage assets throughout the national territory, and if the South Regions continue to be the most exposed, even in the Regions of the North and Central Italy there is an increase in the procedures of seizure. After the effects produced by the law Rognoni-La Torre, with which the introduction of the crime under article 416-bis of the penal code was carried out and the provision of measures of a patrimonial character, seizure and confiscation in order to eliminate the mafia presence from the socio-economic fabric of the country, unfortunately the problem still remains how best to manage the destination of the seized assets; a task, this, reserved to the Agency for the administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated to organized crime. The Rognoni-La Torre law still maintains a fundamental strategic importance both for the protection of democracy and for the market, so much so that the results achieved in almost thirty years by the Forces of the Order and the judiciary in terms of the subtraction of goods to the mafias are considerable, but always require to maintain a high attention from the State. There are numerous cases of the destination of goods confiscated and intended for social purposes, so much so that, at least in part, the objectives laid down by Law No 106 of 1996, a law of popular initiative unique in its kind in the international scene, has given priority to the symbolic value of the passage of the property confiscated from the hands of crime to those of the community, public bodies and associations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it must also be said that the Agency itself, in carrying out its tasks, has been put in difficulty by the large number of assets seized and this has led to the proposal of changes that could enhance the work carried out, directing the most complex management and the proper destination. Regulatory measures are therefore needed to make the management of seized property more efficient, to make its destination faster after confiscation. This is an absolute priority because the passing time plays a negative role in the rule of law. In this direction, one of the proposals put forward in the Commission is to reserve to the Agency the exclusive competence of the sole destination of the property after the finality of the confiscation and thus to limit its duties to assisting the delegated judge in the previous stages. The Agency should then be responsible for the destination of the assets seized pursuant to Article 12-e of Decree-Law No 306 of 1992, i.e. in cases of extended confiscation. In addition, the tasks of corporate check-up and consultancy of the new Agency would need a priori to strengthen those IT communication tools to facilitate collaboration between judicial administrators and to allow the seized companies to be connected to each other in order to continue their activities. The current legislation provides for a credit verification procedure that makes it difficult to plan the continuation of the activities of the seized companies and, at the same time, does not offer rapid protection to third parties creditors, thus creating the risk of indefinite delays in the regulation of relationships. These are uncertainties about the timing of the procedure, which lead to delays in the concrete possibility of continuation, as in the case of companies where there is risk of repercussions also on the maintenance of the level of employment, depriving the workers of the necessary protection. On the other hand, the change of subjects following the administration (from seizure to final confiscation) risks hindering the implementation of a medium-term industrial plan, an important tool for the survival and development of the companies themselves. Another vulnus of the legislation reveals the inadequacy of its application in the event of bankruptcy to the prevention procedure with regard to the verification of claims and the discipline of pending relationships, while there is also the need to create - in the courts, the court of appeal and the investigative and administrative bodies - offices dealing with the removal of goods from organized crime and their reuse for social purposes. Therefore, the refinement of professionalism should be accompanied by an adequate strengthening of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, it must therefore be admitted that the National Agency has not been able to carry out its institutional tasks properly since the date of its establishment, that is, 2010, despite its extraordinary commitment. This has been the case for a number of factors: limited staff, lack of integration of administrative experience with appropriate professional figures in the management activity; and delays in issuing guidelines with which the Agency should have assisted the delegated judges in the face of the increase in confisches by the judicial authority. So much so that, from 2010 to 2013, there has been a sharp decline in the measures of destination for social or institutional purposes, and this despite the increasingly pressing demands of the public, local authorities and associations, to put back in the legal circuit the companies and the goods taken away. Suffice it to say that from 2009 to 2012 the number of goods destined decreased from 629 to 86 and that only in 2013 the target measures were 415. The proposed points for the reform of the anti-mafia legislation formulated by the Commission aim to overcome the challenges highlighted so far, as well as to recover lost time. The main points of the reform therefore aim to: strike crime and hinder evasion; speed up the use of confiscated property; give immediate impetus to the activities of destination of confiscated property; allow a reasonable planning of the business activity and regulate with absolute priority the working relationship with the employees; improve efficiency, timeliness and guarantees of the procedure; adapt the regulation of the activities of the judicial administrators; regulate the new institution of judicial control. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I insist that a fundamental game is played on this ground for the legality and healthy economic development of our country, because the removal of goods from organized crime means removing oxygen from it, that is, those large sums of capital that are its true strength, reason for subsistence and the end of any mafia activity. In this sense, the changes to the legislation on the social purpose of confiscated property, the maintenance of companies, and therefore of so many honest citizens' jobs, are in my opinion the right political strategy for the optimal management of healthy, healthy or healing activities. Our goal is therefore to seize and confiscate assets from criminal and mafia activities, especially in relation to productive activities. And you can't take the risk that the confiscation will not follow a virtuous and productive re-use of the good under the control of the State. It will then be concrete the signal that is given to the citizens, the answer that can be freed from the oppression of any form of mafia in the productive and commercial processes in our society and in our economy. Otherwise, if the confiscated property became unproductive, with the consequent closures of commercial activities and the loss of valuable jobs, the State would come out defeated and pass on the false message, which is appropriate to organized crime, which the mafia still gives work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the focal point of my speech: the state and the laws must ensure the maintenance of clean work and lawful activities from the confisches; otherwise, there is a serious risk of failure in a fundamental step in the fight against the mafia, a risk that we absolutely do not want to take. Therefore, and I conclude, on behalf of the New Right Centre Group, I declare that we will vote for the motion for a resolution, to which we are signatories, in support of the proposals contained in the report on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u57	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we have discussed the first report that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Mafia phenomenon has produced since its establishment in November 2013: a report on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. The report took stock of fifteen years of national and European legislation on the subject of the seizure and confiscation of property. I do not retrace the role of the confiscation of property to the Mafia, assets that were a symbol of power and ostentation for them. The continuous erosion of such assets, which took place in recent years, has also led to a change in their strategy, i.e. from possessing properties, which can be easily attacked, to possessing transferable assets often located in distant places. This is why the fight against mafias has become more complex and needs new instruments, not just legislative ones. Mr Molinari's interesting analysis requires a moment of reflection that must see us all committed to fighting that substratum that still makes the mob live. We, 5 Star Movement, are strongly committed to this cultural change. Innumerable are our proposals for law on legality: corruption, fake budget, anti-money laundering, increased penalties, 416-b. I would remind you that examples, such as not paying the lives of Members convicted of mafia, would also have an important symbolic value. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We believe that only with appropriate legislative instruments, on all fronts, is it possible to give the signal that allows citizens to free themselves from the fears, intimidation of the mafia, feeling that the State is their friend. There is nothing worse than abandoning to their destiny those citizens who rebel against the mafias, who pay for their own freedom. They become the example in negative, reminding all those who raise their heads that, instead of facing a better and more dignified life, they will face great difficulties. This report, full of ideas and proposals, which the 5 Star Movement has actively participated in and, let me tell you, in mass, can only be the first step in overcoming the problems that have emerged over the years. It is not just a corrective to the problems and problems of previous years: I am referring, for example, to the many proposals for the restructuring of the Agency with new functions and with new managerial criteria, in order to give a boost to the better management of the assets. We have also proposed the establishment of a new institute, judicial control, an innovative measure: in cases where there is no complete compromise and infiltration by the mafia into business activity, the borderline entrepreneur is accompanied by a guardian who helps him to walk the road of legality without a management displacement of the enterprise. We consider it essential that the laws are clear, understandable, applied by personnel, investigator and judge, prepared and with all the appropriate means available. The real struggle against the Mafia takes place on the economic and cultural level, going to affect that world, called a grey zone, where the interweavings between politicians, businessmen of all kinds, professionals who seek easy ways of personal enrichment, improperly use both public money and illegal capital from the illegal trade in various products (stupefies, prostitution, tobacco, weapons and so on). Having said that, thanking the staff of the Anti-Mafia Commission for their active cooperation, I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u60	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as my fellow Members will have seen, there is no signature by any of Forza Italia's representatives on the motion for a resolution in this House, so I believe it is right to inform you and the House of the reasons why our Group has not yet signed this document, but not to take part in the work of the anti-Mafia Commission from the outset. In fact, at the time an agreement was reached with the majority party (in this case the Democratic Party), which promised that at the same time as the establishment of the Anti-Mafia Commission would also vote for the Commission's refusals. As is often the case, the cunning numbers of the majority have ensured that the Commission's anti-mafia commission has not yet been tracked. It is a very serious fact and I am pleased that a colleague of the 5 Star Movement has also pointed out this: eight months later this Commission has not yet seen the light, as if we had the A-series Commissions and the B-series Commissions, without realizing that the Commission has the same dignity and value as the Anti-Mafia Commission. I must also add a flaw, which this time concerns the presidency of the Senate, with reference to the representation of the Forza Italia Group in the COPASIR, where we are not represented. Out of ten members there are a representative of the League, a representative of the NCD, a representative of SEL, a representative of Civic Choice, three representatives of the PD and three representatives of the 5 Star Movement. To date, the President of the Senate, together with the President of the Chamber, has not felt the duty and the need to make the necessary arrangements so that there is also the representation of Forza Italia, which is due, among other things, in a meeting such as that of COPASIR, waiting for there to be the obligation to represent all the Groups. Since I don't think our movement, our party... [[References to the agenda by some of the Senators of the M5S Group.]] You don't have to interrupt...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u61	Mr Bruno, please continue. The subject you have raised is of great importance. I would therefore urge you to continue, because it seems to me that it is useful for us to address it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u62	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). It is clear that the representatives of the 5 Star Movement try to interrupt, since they have three out of ten representatives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The problem is what you're denouncing. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Of course. I would like to understand what the criterion is that the Senate Presidency and the President of the House believe that Forza Italia should not be represented at COPASIR. I therefore await an answer. Until we have an answer to this, our Members and senators will not participate in the anti-Mafia Commission. Having said that - I think it is right to inform the House - I would stress that we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1, in the belief that the work done by our fellow Members is serious. This work sees us consenting, and on the basis of it we urge the Government to take all necessary initiatives, because it will certainly have Forza Italia at its side. Indeed, since today's problems of the Agency are highlighted, which certainly need to be re-evaluated as they need new considerations, on this ground the Government knows very well that it has the possibility of having Forza Italia sided by its side. I very much appreciate all the speeches that have been made today, and I must stress, although it is not my custom, that I have found Mr Lumia's remarks very considerable, which I subscribe to in all their parts. In fact, I believe that he has emphasized better than anyone (I certainly do not want to give a vote) the real situation in which anti-mafia legislation is today. I therefore conclude my speech by ensuring that, although there is no signature on the motion for a resolution, we are in complete agreement and we urge the Government to continue in the concrete fight against all the mafias. I would also remind you that our participation in that Commission is subject to the agreements: since the agreements are also valid in politics, I hope that today's sitting and the debate on the motion for a resolution will enable the relevant bodies and the majority parties to reconsider the positions that have not led to anything positive so far. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u63	Mr Bruno, there is no doubt that the question you raised at the beginning of your speech, which was raised at the Conference of the Leaders, is of particular importance, and I believe that it should be considered by the Presidency of the Senate for the subsequent decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u66	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I begin my speech by thanking the Presidents of the Senate and the House for having accepted the invitation to carry out in the two classrooms the discussion of the report produced by the Anti-Mafia Commission on confiscated property. I believe that this is already an important fact, a sign of value, partly because I believe that a few other times the Anti-Mafia Commission has been allowed to bring documents and issues related to its work to the examination of the Assemblies. In my view, this must be recognised. I also hope that this is not the last time, because I believe that full involvement of the whole of Parliament in the fight against organised crime is important. Today we are debating a subject that is rightly highlighted in many speeches, but also in the course of the Commission's work: we have often focused on highlighting the limitations and problems to be overcome in the management of confiscated property and in the functioning of the Agency. In this context, however, I would like to remind you that the decision to confiscate property without criminal conviction has allowed us to put in place in our country an extraordinary measure of prevention, the most effective possible, capable of hitting assets and attacking mafias and organized crime on the ground where they suffer the most and are more sensitive, that is, money and assets. This choice was already far-sighted when it was assumed, in 1996, but today, when the mafias of white collars and infiltrations into the economy and legal society prevail over the military mafias, it is even more far-sighted. And even more far-sighted was the choice not only to remove huge assets from the availability of organised crime, but also to direct them towards public ends. The idea of returning them to the community, to civil society, is not only a strong idea in itself, but has an extraordinary symbolic value. Since 1996, 6.677 confiscation measures have been taken, of which 2.613 have only been taken in the last four years. It's an important fact. The assets confiscated are 49,000, 30,000 proposals. To date, 4,800 assets have been seized. All this demonstrates the effectiveness of this instrument for preventing and combating mafias. However, we agree that, as you have said in many, other data should be added to these positive data, which indicate the need to make a "cut", to modify part of the legislation and, above all, to significantly reform the Agency. In the last five years the confisches have increased: just think that from 662 in 2009 it has gone up to 2,292 in 2011, until to arrive in 2012 (date confirmed in 2013) to 6,414 confisches. In view of this, however, the destination of goods has decreased, and this is a problem. Alongside this, as has been said in the debate, there are other open issues: the difficulty of managing the property owned by companies, the difficulty of satisfying creditors without closing companies and, above all, ensuring the functioning of companies and employment. If we fail to guarantee the functioning of the confiscated companies, if we produce an employment problem, if the companies close, from the concrete and symbolic point of view, in the South there is a disaster: the idea is affirmed that the mafia succeeds in doing what the State fails to do. This would be a dramatic message; for this reason we must correct the legislation, and we must do so soon, in order to ensure that not even a confiscated company closes after the confiscation. Again: many properties remain unused for credits or lack of resources. To allow municipalities to use them, more money is needed; it is necessary to finalise a part of the money seized from the mafias in order to guarantee the municipalities sufficient resources to standardize the properties and use them. In the run-up to the European Semester, the question of European legislation must be put very strongly in order to allow full effectiveness to the instrument of confiscation and preventive measures not only within national borders, and tonight, in the Anti-Mafia Commission, we shall vote on a document to this end. The theme goes beyond borders: the mafia invests everywhere and everywhere it must be opposed, not allowing enough investment in a different country to avoid the risk of confiscation. On the basis of these problems, the Anti-Mafia Commission has unanimously put forward and voted on significant proposals for reform, both of the management of confiscated property and of the Agency, with the awareness of the critical problems and their complexity, but also with the awareness of the limitations of the current legislation and the need to change it and of the limits of the functioning of the Agency and the need to reform it. There are a number of proposals contained in the document and taken up in the motion for a resolution, which I do not want to retrace for some time. However, in confirming the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to stress the importance of this parliamentary passage. An important parliamentary act that commits the Government to do, and do soon, on the decisive ground for the fight against the mafia; a parliamentary act that asks the new director, to whom we wish, the Prefect Postiglione, to do quickly what needs to be done, that is to start the information system and the database that finally collects all the data on the confiscated goods and guarantees as soon as possible the destination of the many confiscated goods that are waiting. But above all, with this motion for a resolution, after the adoption of 416-b and before dealing with the issue of self-money laundering that the Government has put on the agenda, we give a clear message: that Parliament and the State keep their guard against the mafias, that we feel the political and moral duty to fight the mafias, that we are all committed to always improving the rules for preventing and combating organised crime, in order to give the magistrates and the law enforcement agencies the means to fight crime, a crime that changes trying to strengthen itself. The State also responds this way: even - let me say this - with the daily action of which attention is important, the analysis, in short, the role that the Anti-Mafia Commission is playing, with the decisive contribution of its President Rosy Bindi. This document also shows that the Anti-Mafia Commission has an important role to play. I want to reiterate this to the friends of Forza Italia, inviting them not to miss their contribution in such an important place. We are able - this document and the motion for a resolution that we are going to vote on today - to make an important contribution, but to do so we need everyone: in fact, the more united each step, the stronger the state's action against the mafias will be. Of course, there are problems that we are committed to facing; indeed, the issues that have been raised by representation in the Commissions must be considered. I believe it is in the interest of the whole Parliament to address the issue of representation in the Commissions. I believe that this must be done, but the contribution of an important part of Parliament to the work of the anti-Mafia Commission must no longer be denied. The unanimous vote that the Senate expresses today is an important message to the country; it is a message of strength, of legality, of the institutions that fight against the mafias. With the unity of all political forces today we demonstrate on this that institutions are stronger to win. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u69	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u70	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u73	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you listen to us from outside, I would like to ask the House for a moment of attention. We are talking about the 6 GDO of Castelvetrano, that is, a property confiscated from the mafia, in Grigoli, a forerunner of Matteo Messina Money. A good that billed about 120 million euros a year, which failed after it passed into the hands of the state. I also take advantage of the presence of Deputy Minister Bubbico. The judicial administration of these assets cannot be left to chance. In the above-mentioned report, point 5.5 specifically analyses judicial administrators and says nothing about actual competences and responsibilities. In this case, in fact, it is precisely a matter of responsibility. Mr Vice-Minister, we have tabled a question, in which we make the names of the administrators and ask the Minister and you whether there are responsibilities in this specific case on the part of the administrators and whether and what actions can be taken for the 400 workers who have lost their jobs. There are alarming data: out of about 2,000 assets that have been acquired, only 15 percent to date remain alive, and probably this is also due to judicial administrators. We have therefore - I repeat - tabled a question, which brings today's date, the subject of which I wanted to refer to you and to the whole of the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u76	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, after more than three and a half years, the alleged assassin of Yara Gambirasio has a face. Here I want to express my deepest congratulations to the Bergamo judiciary and to all the forces of the order of the territory, who with great professionalism and tenacity have never abandoned the search and have endured with commendable patience even difficult moments, sometimes moments that had little to do with the investigations. A special thanks goes to Dr. Letizia Ruggeri, to the prosecutor Francesco Dettori, in addition to the commissioner of Bergamo Fortunato Finelli and to the commander of the carabinieri Antonio Flag and to all those who participated in the complex investigations and contributed to the arrest of yesterday of the alleged murderer of Yara Gambirasio. After more than three years of investigation, piece on piece, he renowned a thread that seemed to get lost in the complexity and the amount of work that the investigators had in front of them. Mr President, the thought and remembrance now go to Yara and the Gambirasio family, who in faith have found the strength to endure this tragedy, in these very long years, without having the opportunity to know the truth: the truth that for an entire community, experienced by anguish and suspicion, can help to regain serenity and trust in the future. Thank you all again. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u77	We join in his praise, in this tragic affair, for this epilogue of affirmation of legality.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u80	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second paragraph of Article 54 of the Constitution reads: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. At 2 o'clock in the night of May 15, after the football match between Italy and England, a tweet by Vice President Gasparri recited: "It's nice to send... The British, porky and assholes. Since it is you who presides, perhaps it would also be interesting for the author to enlighten us on what he meant by the dots of suspension. Afterwards, in response to a user who suggested that he propose himself as Foreign Minister, Vice President Gasparri replied: If the shampista does it, you can do it too. Reading these sentences, I wonder where they are discipline and honor, as written in our Constitution. I also note that Vice-President Calderoli apologized in this House for the wrong and offensive words against then-Minister Kyenge. I would ask that Vice-President Gasparri do the same and that President Grasso and the Presidency consider the seriousness of the expressions of Vice-President Gasparri in relation to a country, a friend of Italy, and to a Minister of our Republic. Shampista is a decent job, like all professions. All professions and trades deserve respect and every citizen could be deserving of important positions, beyond his or her training course. Rather, let us all worry about giving the answers to those who ask us to enter the world of work, to those who do not have it or have lost it, or to those exodus who are still waiting for an answer that does not come. There may be political differences between countries and differences also between representatives of our institutions, but never - I repeat: never - must go down to the free offenses, that if addressed to an entire country can create not a few embarrassments. I take advantage of the fact that you are chairing the House: if you want to answer me, do so now, but not via Twitter. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u83	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, in recent days a wave of bad weather has hit Parmense, causing serious damage to the territory, infrastructure and crops. In particular, in the evening of June 14 there were serious inconveniences in Parma and province, and in particular in the area between Fidenza, Salsomaggiore and Busseto, due to an air trumpet combined with a violent storm. In many cases it was necessary the intervention of firefighters following the fall of trees and the many floods caused by heavy rains. Also due to the bad weather, in the morning of Sunday the railway traffic between Fidenza and Salsomaggiore was suspended. The most serious damages are those suffered by farms, in a large area ranging from Varano Melegari to Medesano, Salsomaggiore, Fidenza and Busseto. The crops have been affected, as well as by the cloud and the trumpet of air, also by hail. In particular, near the village of Varano Melegari it is worth noting the flood of Rio Boccolo, which has overwhelmed the protection barriers that run along it and has invested, as well as a restaurant and some farms, the cultivated fields of the area. Also in Varano Melegari some farms complain serious damage due to hail, with some fields literally submerged by the large rained grains for about thirty centimeters. The damage to agriculture is considerable. The request for the state of emergency has already been formally sent, but I believe it is necessary to stress, here too, the need for a timely recognition by the Government of the state of emergency accompanied by measures to guarantee the economic contributions necessary for the restoration of the damage of the farms and the affected individuals. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u86	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read what has been written by the minority adviser of the Municipality of Bacoli, Josi Della Ragione: we take note of the repentance of the boss of Bacoli Rosario Pariante. We hope that this will help speed up the investigations carried out for Bacoli by the anti-Mafia prosecutor about the possibility of an exchange vote crime. The DDA, as documented by the Freebacoli group, since 2011 investigates the unclear administrative management of the Campano spa fishing center owned by the Municipality. Also in Bacoli, investigations of the attorney of Naples have concerned the alleged criminal management of the port of Baia and the municipal elections of 2002 and 2010. For too many years, Flegrea policy has been vexed by the dissolution of municipal councils for camorristic infiltrations (see Pozzuoli, Quarto and Giugliano), and next year we will vote again in many of these municipalities. For this reason, too, we call for the anti-Mafia Commission's concern to restore peace of mind and political and electoral flexibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u89	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking to bring to the attention of the Government a piece of news about which we would like to be denied. We hear from trade union sources that there is intention on the part of the Finmeccanica summit to transfer the registered office of Alenia Aermacchi to Rome. This would obviously be a slap and a slap, even more after the statements made in the past years that had instead confirmed the centrality of the Venegono Inferiore and Venegono Superiore plant compared to the production activities of the same group. This would be further a slap because, as has unfortunately been the case in recent years, best practices are cancelled in favour of the best political conveniences. We have already seen a part of the group massacred simply for partisan interest, going to join Alenia with Aermacchi and losing a managerial capacity and professionalism that had always distinguished our most important industry with wings. If this were to be confirmed, it would be a real spite to a territory, such as the Varese one, which instead has always invested a lot in the aeronautical industry. The territories and mayors are already moving, and certainly we will not miss our part in giving support. Let it be clear, however, to the new president Moretti, and to those who are directing him in this choice, that party friends cannot find space from these new unifications and from these movements, because the territory must remain present, especially where the experience and the operational abilities have demonstrated the ability to be productive industry, and not simply that to be a place to place friends. On this we will not give up a millimeter: Alenia Aermacchi has its registered office in Venegono Inferiore and in the plant of Venegono Superiore, and there it must stay. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u92	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you because I have been asking questions to Mr Giannini for a long time about certain matters relating to competitions for university qualifications. Frankly, I am amazed that the Minister has not yet given any answer, partly because, as is well known, Professor Giannini was rector of a university, so she knows perfectly well the subject. I would therefore be grateful if the Presidency could urge the Minister to give an early response.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u93	We will take note of this and provide for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-263.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.16 p.m.
