ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon's sitting voting began on the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u11	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I simply wanted to condemn the fact that the Commissions 10a and 13a, from what I am told, worked all night. This is to say that the decree-competitiveness law is an extremely important measure and that it must be evaluated, while the bill that we are discussing, that is, this constitutional law, will come into force in 2018. I would like to stress that many of us are doing the best we can to move forward with the work, but I would like to point out that there are some colleagues who have stood up all night, and it is right that the citizens who listen to us should also know that. I would like you to take note of this situation as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Idem.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u12	We take note of that. I have to say that this is a very important commitment. Thank you for raising this issue because I think it is really worthwhile to have worked even during the night. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.14. CRIMI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). As the deadline of twenty minutes has not yet elapsed since the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 9:55 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.14, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u15	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Last sitting we had electronic votes for all the amendments to Article 1. Since we are going to continue voting on the amendments to Article 1 this morning, since we did not finish them yesterday, I did not again request an electronic vote. I would like to know whether the request for electronic voting should be repeated at the beginning of each sitting or whether, once an electronic vote has been requested for all the amendments tabled to the article, this also applies to the votes of the following days. I'm asking for an authentic interpretation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The request for electronic voting has already been made by Senator Crimi before the sitting is suspended. GAETTI (M5S). Forgive me, Madam President, but perhaps I have not explained myself. Yesterday we asked for the electronic vote for the whole of Article 1. Yesterday the votes on the amendments to Article 1 were not concluded and this morning we resumed our work precisely with Article 1. So, every time the sitting opens, do we have to request an electronic vote for all the amendments to the article? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right, Senator Gaetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u18	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, in this amendment we take up the issue we addressed yesterday. This amendment provides for the abolition of the foreign constituency, an issue on which there has been a heated debate, which has shown that the matter needs to be deepened, perhaps with a special ordinary bill. I must say that Senator Micheloni's words, in particular some that I will now remember, have also been very decisive for the change, which I communicated yesterday, in relation to the initial position. As a Group, we have always supported our opposition to the foreign constituency, precisely because we thought it had been distorted in its initial logic. Indeed, Senator Micheloni pointed out that if there is a problem it is not to be found in the senators elected abroad, but it is to be sought here. However, the vices of this country, the way of political action and the way of dealing with elections in this state have also spilled over to the foreign constituency. But the problem must not be tackled by eliminating the foreign constituency, but by eliminating the distortions. More than once I have heard complaints about the voting methods adopted in the foreign constituency: packets of cards that are already voted on; unions, patrons and associations that make incetta of votes without any logical political proposal. It is to these twists that we must give an answer. The telematic vote - which some people considered impossible or not foreseen and in violation of principles related to confidentiality and direct voting, for which every citizen must be able to vote personally - could be a system capable of preventing the twists I was talking about earlier. If we were to succeed in entrusting this vote to an automatic and electronic system, possibly managed not in Italian, as always in the past the electronic systems have been managed, perhaps we would be able to bypass all those associative lobbying that try to make incetta of votes abroad without a real political proposal. That is why we will be voting against Amendment 01.15, but stressing the need to deal with this matter with an in-depth analysis, perhaps taking into account the draft law referred to by Senator Micheloni, and with the signature of President Finocchiaro as well, to be taken to the Commission for examination. Of course, though, if the Commissions are committed to being behind the government's whims, there is little time to deal with serious issues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u21	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, there are often reasons on this subject which are not constitutional in nature with principles which are rightly welcomed in this measure. We will vote against Amendment 01.15 because if the stated objective is electoral legislation that does not allow abuse, but the better exploitation of the contribution of consensus that must be rightly allowed to Italian voters residing abroad, the action to be taken is about electoral law, and therefore a different level of legislation from the constitutional one. In this case we must fully reaffirm the right of the many Italians that we often do not reach, not allowing all of them to participate in the events of our country and their land as they would deserve to be able to do. The argument that arises in this amendment, and which is holding us back, is the same that we are supporting in general, namely: if the Senate of the Republic is to exist, if there must be a Parliament (which can only exist in a democratic system), each of the Chambers of that Parliament must be elected by the people living in Italy and by the Italian people living abroad. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and the Senators Mussini and Zin]] It is on this principle that we are doing not obstructionism, but a legitimate battle of civilization, a legitimate political battle. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Mussini]] We cannot and must not liquidate the value of the citizen's direct participation in the choice of his representative. We cannot get rid of our battle for a obstructive action of any other measure, even if it is not serious, that we must examine. This is our fundamental Charter, it is the pact between all Italian citizens who are in Italy and among the many citizens who are not in Italy because they have been forced to seek their acceptable living conditions in other countries! Our emigration is not tourist: it is an emigration of necessity and has an ancient history! It has seen recurrent migration flows over the years and times of the worst economic and social crisis in our country. President, there have been municipalities that have emptied themselves of men and women who have gone to work in other countries in order to survive! This is why we have respect for all migrants: because it is our history; it is the history of this country. Yesterday I saw an agency that said it was 100,000; I saw different numbers: my colleague Turano gave them to me. We have a population of Italians who work fruitfully abroad that is superior to the resident Italian population! To the million and 600,000 Sardinians correspond as many Sardinians in all countries around the world: they are one million and 600,000 migrants! The village of Tresnuraghes - I want to name it - in the Province of Oristano has emptied at the beginning of the last century and its inhabitants have gone in more flows to work in Argentina. Our boys in the years of military dictatorship were killed by that dictatorship, and we must have respect for it! Marras, the brother-in-law of the young trade unionist Mastinu, has been mowed by a discharge of machine guns in Argentina by Argentine dictators! He was mowed and threw his daughter into the air to prevent her from being killed, too. Mastinu is a desaparecido; he was thrown out of a plane! And we don't respect this battle? These are the dead of my land! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] Mastinu was a young port trade unionist for whom a trial has been made, and we acknowledge the Italian judiciary for having done that trial and having sentenced to life imprisonment the admiral responsible for those tortures and atrocities and having asked for extradition. A new political and judicial initiative in Argentina was then founded on that process. This is the sacrifice to affirm human rights. In Tresnuraghes there is a study center. It's not obstructionism, it's political passion, it's real passion. I say this to the comrades of the Democratic Party: the same political passion that we have nurtured and nourished together in these events! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u24	MAURO Mario (PI). Madam President, in voting against this amendment, I would like to take advantage of the remaining, albeit peripheral, presence of the Undersecretary Delrio in the proceedings of the House in order to make a proposal to the Government which I find of common sense on the basis of the analysis carried out by these amendments. These amendments re-establish the mix between ordinary laws and constitutional texts. Now, on several occasions we have said that it is improper to include ordinary laws in a constitutional text or the logic of ordinary laws in a constitutional text to solve problems that are of a different nature than the constitutional one. The proposal that I make therefore concerns the whole text, and I ask the Government: would it not make sense any more, given that that logic is proposed in other parts where pieces of text are inserted that concern the Italicum that seeks to constitutionalize, suspend the work of analysis of the constitutional text and concentrate the work of Parliament on Italicum so that, solved those problems, even the constitutional text can be seen in a more disenchanted and free from constraints that concern ordinary laws? I therefore repeat - and I conclude - my proposal and suggest, in confirming the vote against this amendment, that the Government consider the possibility of suspending work on the constitutional text in order to proceed to the examination of Italicum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mauro, we are in an explanation of vote and the government has already responded, in accordance with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u27	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we knew this would be the reform season, because we had already begun the process in the last parliamentary term, where we even had a Minister for Reform, Senator Quagliariello. He started the process and had brought to this House the elaborate, a full volume, on the work of the famous Commission for Constitutional Reforms. Those many or those few who had the patience to read that full volume could take note of the high scientific value of the debate, having that Commission involved more than 40 professors of constitutional law and public law. Those many or those few who have had the patience to read it will have been able to notice that this Commission has deepened the theme of bicameralism, because that was a kind of input: this country must be able to streamline its work, so it must specialize the two Chambers in order to equip itself with a legislative procedure as effective and as expedited as possible. The solution on which all the professors could converge consisted in the specialization of the two Chambers, with more subtle or sensitive differences, and all have identified a second Chamber representing local interests and autonomous, bearers of area values, which, however, should not have influenced the relationship of political trust with the Executive: a Chamber that gives confidence, a second Chamber that carries territorial interests, as well as having tasks and functions of control. Now, because a Constitution lives an average of thirty years and because the Constitution that we are going to amend will come into force at the end of the legislature - with the new legislature presumably or, as the Premier says, in 2018 - we do not understand why the Premier, President Renzi, wanted to give an inconceivable acceleration, assuming that the first reading of the measure must be completed by 8 August. What will happen if it ends on August 10, September or October? Nothing will happen at all, since the reform would come into force in four years' time, to the point that the path started by the previous government was the same. As far as the foreign constituency is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the slender and fast text brought by the government. The mistake that the Government makes in this text - undoubtedly the haste is not a good councilwoman - is to include the political representatives expressed from abroad in the Chamber of Deputies. If President Renzi had read some act of the Commission, he would have realized that the professors - given the fact that the second Chamber is representative of sectoral interests, of zone, of area and of country - had advised that the foreign constituency should concern exclusively the Senate and not the Chamber that gives the trust, being the representation of a member of the country released and far from the territory, that does not live in the country, does not know the inconveniences and does not pay taxes in the country. But what confidence could these representatives give to a government? More rational would have been - and it was written in the report - that the territories were represented in the Senate, with an extraterritorial representation present in the Senate: this was the balance that would emerge from a reasoned text. We read that President Renzi has been smitten because he sees that he cannot keep that commitment, he cannot see the reform coming in according to the timing that has been given. [[Applause from Senator Council.]] And he does one of the silliest and cowardly things a Member can do: to put public opinion against the institutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Minzolini and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u28	Senator, you know public opinion has its own autonomy, don't you? DIVINE (LN-Aut). President, I am aware of what I am saying. President Renzi does everything to put public opinion against the institutions, which wants to streamline, speed and solutions. The problems, however, are not solved, on the contrary, promises a reform per month and does a silly thing a day. He puts the country against the institutions, saying: "They want to save the seats!" But we want to save the country, a country that has fought for freedom, against the Caesarist drift that is being established: no one has the courage to say what solutions we are going to!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u29	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A President who calls the President of the Republic complaining that he even wants to vote with a secret vote in here: are you kidding me? We remove the secret vote, we remove freedom; we do not vote the Senate, we do not vote the House: everything is decided from above! [[Senator Tomaselli's comments. Senator Palma's replicas.]] But what is the result of this country? We agree that reforms are needed to streamline the institutions, not to degrade them! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Campanella and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u30	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 01.15... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u31	Madam President, I ask you to speak! I asked to intervene by raising my hand! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall cancel the vote. I'm sorry, Senator Floris, we haven't seen you. Anyway, having had the ten minutes, it was enough to report it. Madam President, I asked to speak by raising my hand, but obviously I was not seen by you. I think I have to insist on this, because... President. In an explanation of vote, right? FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CASINI (PI). Excuse me, Madam President, but we have already voted, that is not possible! FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask those who tabled the amendment, Mr Minzolini, Mr D'Anna, Mr Compagnone, Mr Longo, Mr Bruni, Mr Bonfrisco, Mr Milo and Mr Tarquinio, to withdraw it because I do not believe it... [[Senator Casini's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u32	Senator Casini, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u33	CASINI (PI). Senator Casini, nothing! There are rules, sorry! FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Senator, I respect... president. You, Senator Floris, make your explanation of vote, which the Presidency thinks of its role. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I had therefore asked for the amendment to be withdrawn because the reasons given by those who preceded me and my direct knowledge of so many immigrants abroad who feel that they have a strong Italian spirit and are eager to participate in our civil life lead me to believe that this spirit cannot be mortified by the vote on this amendment. I therefore call for this to be withdrawn, precisely out of respect for the associations and for each individual migrant, and I would like to remind you that the problem of emigration is becoming more and more evident at this time of crisis in our nation. For this reason, I would ask Mr Minzolini to withdraw it and not to put it to the vote. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u34	Are you pulling it, Senator Minzolini?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u35	Madam President, at this point, compared to the debate we had...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u36	Please, Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u37	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Can I answer by motivating the answer? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, you're gonna pick it up? MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). I am saying that, with regard to the debate that has taken place, the withdrawal, but I would just like to make a small impression on what has been done and said so far. I believe that the matter is being dealt with with with a certain amount of attention and seriousness... President. Senator, excuse me, but the amendment has already been tabled and withdrawn, so we can move on to the others. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). But then I'd talk soon after: so if you let me say it now, I won't take the floor anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, but now we are on this amendment: if it is withdrawn, it is withdrawn. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). But I can't do a...? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it's not an explanation of vote, it's a withdrawal. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Can I just say one thing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quick, you have a minute. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). I'll be very fast. Since we are dealing with these matters with some seriousness - regardless of Senator Casini's attitude - I would like to see the same seriousness on the part of the Premier. Today, in fact, I have read some of your statements that have left me a little puzzled. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I have a proposal to make. May I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, please: we are not in the debate, so you will do so later, when you explain your vote on another amendment. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). But it'll take me 30 seconds. Why do you let me take the floor later? [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u38	Amendment 01.15 is therefore withdrawn, while amendments 01.16, 01.17 and 01.18 are unacceptable. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). I can't understand... president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). But you can't...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u41	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, this amendment is very, very simple, because it is purely suppressive, as they say in the vocabulary of parliamentary law. In particular, it aims to abolish Chapter I and Chapter II of the reform proposed by Draft Law No 1429. Great. Why are we in favour of this amending proposal? In fact, the Heads I and II of the so-called Boschi-Renzi reform express the philosophy of the reformist intent all around. Therefore, they expressly state the will of those who propose this amendment of the Constitutional Charter, in order to restructure the parliamentary balances and the powers and powers attributed to the supreme guarantee body which, according to our Charter, is constituted - precisely - by the President of the Republic. Now, what is it we care little about in this Chief I? By now they have been written, not pages, but whole monographs on how weights and counterweights, with the combined arrangement of Italicum (as has already been mentioned by other colleagues), they would jump, with a mixture that, finally to this process, would lead in an explosive way to unbalances in favour of decision-making power. At the end of the 1990s, in some of his studies, Mimmo Losurdo attributed these imbalances to a bonapartistic tendency present in many democracies in Western Europe, not excluding the Italian one. Losurdo saw in Berlusconism the political-social phenomenon that best embodied this drift; however, it seems to me that, at this point, evenrenzism can be considered with traits very similar to Berlusconism. I say this because in the composition of Parliament, as Chief I of the reform intervenes, there is a clear imbalance for the benefit of a Chamber, which remains numerically unchanged, that is, the Chamber of Deputies, in order to allow a clear supremacy over the other Chamber, that is, the Senate of the Republic (which before was to be the Senate of the autonomous or territorial institutions), which for numerical and therefore quantitative reasons is absolutely condemned to the irrelevance towards the first Chamber. A careful observer cannot escape that quantitative relationships constitute the premises on which to base qualitatively important passages. The numerical and therefore quantitative weakening of the Senate in itself constitutes an implicit strengthening of the other House. For example, all our guarantee bodies elected by Parliament in common sitting would be altered, modified and - let me say - degraded because, not a Chamber, but - precisely - an elected Chamber with a decidedly majority electoral law and decidedly damaged by an abnormal majority prize would allow a force capable of electorally representing the largest minority present in the country, but endowed with a strong organized structure, to make the en plein, as they say, to take everything. Therefore, the President of the Republic would be monopolized by those who could possibly get 20-25 percent or a little more than the votes, and so would the Supreme Council of the judiciary; the Constitutional Court would suffer even more than these numerically very unhappy relationships, because - precisely - the logic of the majority would permeate Parliament all of itself, subtracting from the same representativeness and directing it towards the myth - which in our opinion is a false myth - of governability. The latter is a myth that recalls decision-making, which was once taught in Italian schools and universities, and which should be traced back to the beehive of the cultural and political tradition of the right, of the right hand of the strong man who, however, wants to do and wants to act. I hope that (I do not care whether my left or my right) those who really care about democracy as a dimension of mutual listening and as a dimension of the decision that has matured by listening and dialogue with others and then obtaining a decision that is as shared as possible will appeal to those values, which were once so many in this House, so that on this amendment we can find a convergence that is not baricentric in the movement, but polycentric. In fact, Parliament needs to represent that cultural pluralism, anthropological, social, economic, political and even historical that in itself represents our country. We, according to our Constitution, are one and indivisible country, but I would not like this reform to become a unity that does not give a voice to minorities, because a country is rich in the extent to which it succeeds in enhancing the paradigm of biodiversity, and therefore the ability to collect for itself and for its institutions the voices, even the most discordant possible, that enrich the cultural and political debate and that do not mortify it. Diversity is a source of wealth for those who are genuinely democratic, while respecting consistency with the founding principles of the same being together, the so-called founding pact on which a Republic that has such a young life is still based today. If we forget this lesson, which is left to us also by those who spent themselves on the war of resistance, we will give credit to those who marry the philosophy for which it is important to decide and this philosophy, already in 1921 and 1922, has produced results that many remember and that I would like to remind the House softly. With regard to the abolition of Chapter II, I repeat that even within those who are the voice of the majority (and therefore the Democratic Party) there have been intelligent positions taken by senators who have intended to table amendments so that the same... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. MORRA (M5S). ...let the election of the President of the Republic be a procedure - having to undergo this imposition of reform in such a way - extended at least to MEPs, i.e. elected in a proportional manner, to counter a majority and decision-making drift that perhaps, in a hallucinated way (this I do not have to decide), some could lead to an authoritarian turning point. I am convinced that this is not the intention of the Commission, but precisely for this reason, to avoid doubts, to avoid perplexity, why not accept this simple deletion of Chapters I and II of draft law No. 1429? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u44	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, since Amendment 1.1 - as has just been mentioned - is deleted from Chapters I and II, so not from a specific point but from the general structure of the reform (or at least from the part contained in the first two Chapters), this allows me to make some general reflections, if I may say so, given that precisely the amendment asks the Government and the parliamentary majority to take a step back, to stop not simply on the single point but - I insist - on the overall system that has been imagined for this reform. I say this quietly to my colleagues, to my colleagues in the parliamentary majority and in particular to the Senators of the Democratic Party. I ask you to reflect on one point: the climate that has been built in recent years - which has meant that in this country the Parliament of the Republic seems to be the main opponent of everything, of democracy, of change, of good politics - has been built precisely in a very wrong way, from my point of view, and has also often been used as a real weapon of distraction, not to mention the other problems of the country. Well, in this climate, if this reform had been done in a more serious and organic way, you, a parliamentary majority, should have 99.9% of the country with you. How can you not reflect, during these hours, on the fact that it does not see instead any surveys, no surveys, express consent for this type of operation that you are doing? With the climate there, you should have had 99 percent; if you don't even have 51, you have to think. You have to reflect on the fact, for example, that the people of this country probably think that, if you really have to reform to overcome the perfect bicameralism, either you do it well, or you do it seriously, or the Senate is better to abolish it altogether! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Minzolini and Council Senators]] Instead, this idea of a "senaticchio" that basically does not meet the needs of the country is evidently deeply questioned. When I read, as it happens every day, that I and those who, like me, during these hours are doing a parliamentary battle, are obstructing, being professional brakes, being enemies of change, even being bureaucrats - as I read this morning - I want to ask you: is it possible that these arguments are used in parliamentary dialectics? Is it possible that the fear of the early elections will be stirred up as if this could become a way of telling the opposition to shut up before a trial that is not shared? President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Who's the real obstructionist? Who is using the rules of democracy and parliamentary regulations to try to block a wrong reform that will not benefit this country, or who does not want to discuss, who does not even want to try to seek mediation points over which to imagine forms of consensus much wider? It is a fundamental point and it is a political question that I am asking this House, and I am really appealing: stop, because otherwise you will answer, and it will be your obstructionism that will take on the price of a really very wrong political battle. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Orellana and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u47	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I will vote against amendment 1.1 tabled by my colleagues in the Mixed SEL Group, because I am convinced that these reforms are necessary, and as we are serious people, I believe that from this point of view deleting Chapters I and II means deleting a large part of the reform. We are serious people, but I begin to imagine that the Premier is not, because he cannot continue, as my colleague De Cristofaro said, to spread poisons placed there at random, adding falsehoods and beatings, because we are talking about this. Very often you can have this attitude in trying to incite public opinion, but here we are getting to the maximum of falsehood. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I read his words on today's "Corriere della Sera" (not to mention that he also takes it out on Grasso, but let's forget it): "Because it is clear that the obstructionists do not want them (reforms). Those do not care about the electivity, they only care about the identity of the person. Then it goes on with other beatings that I'm not here to repeat. What's the point? I want to make it clear to the President and to the public that if the Premier were to decide for the electivity, this problem would no longer exist. [[Applause from the M5Se Group of Senators Buemi and Mussini]] We, I mean, could take this reform home within a week. The problem, then, is about him. It is useless for him to try to dump on others a obstruction that arises from his closed and rigid attitude on a matter on which - as Senator De Cristofaro rightly said - public opinion is on the side. If, in fact, the question arises in the correct terms, what does the public say? He says that, between abolishing or not abolishing the Senate, he prefers abolition (and we agree). What does public opinion say between a Senate of nominees and an elective Senate? He prefers the elective Senate by an overwhelming majority. On these issues and attitudes that are not yours - I can claim some seriousness, because since the examination of constitutional reform began I have always held this position - should take only one step forward. The real obstructionist, because he goes against the will of public opinion and the Senate, regardless of the blackmail done, is the President of the Council. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII eM5S groups and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u50	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, thinking of making a small contribution to the proceedings of the Senate, we will make explanations of vote on almost all the amendments that will be put to the vote. I would ask you, therefore, to instruct the Secretaries to look on our side whenever an amendment is voted on. [[Applause from Senators Santangelo and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u53	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, on behalf of the LAG Group, I am voting against amendment 1.1 tabled by the Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom, if only because we are playing a game in a rather distracted context such as that of Italian public opinion and also quite uninformed. In fact, I note from reading certain newspapers, from left to right, that I support the mystification that we here are defending the chair, and not the right of the people to choose the parliamentarians. Today, in fact, it is not so important what is done in this House, but what is represented outside it to the public. Senator Minzolini and other colleagues have already spoken on this matter. I would add that last night, in order to deceive time, I examined the story of the Acerbo law, which presents appalling similarities with that of our examination. Even in that case the threshold was 25 percent, and it is 25 percent the ratio of 37 percent of the majority of Italicum to about 61 percent of people going to the vote. This time, however, we have managed to do worse. The young Florentine, who is a great communicator and turns to a country already ontologically distracted compared to parliamentary events, has managed to do worse. Acerbo, who was Undersecretary within the Mussolini Government, had at least the caution and good taste to gather, in preparing the law, a group of essays, who were not the D'Anna of the situation, just to understand us: there were a certain Francesco Saverio Nitti, a certain Salandra and a certain Giolitti. Thus, even under the Government of Benito Mussolini it was wise to participate in the parliamentary forces the delibation first and then, in the Chamber, the presentation of a law that was obviously liberticidal. The problem here, therefore, as Mr Minzolini said, is not that we want to waste time; indeed, we are voting against SEL's amendment precisely because we want reforms. If I were Carneade, who was the head of the skeptics, or those philosophers who supported the thesis and the antithesis with equal skill, I would ask myself: what is the priority in this country, where the unemployed increase to tens of thousands, where the public debt increases by about fifty billions a month, where everything is collapsed, beyond the self-esteem of the President of the Council? What is the priority? That of going to reform the Senate, when we have over 60,000 members of the board of directors of the state-participated companies, whose emoluments are a hundred times those of the MPs, MPs or senators who are? [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] Apart from this rhetoric, I ask you and myself: where is the stubbornness, the tetragonal will of the President of the Council not to include the word "electivity" in a draft constitutional reform? We do not understand it if we do not do a little 'backology, that is to lead us to vote, as soon as approved this reform, that must be carried out in haste and fury, in the name and for the good of the Italian people, with the Italicum that does not have the preferences. Yesterday Professor Ainis, on the "Corriere della Sera" showed us that the majority in the Chamber will be enough twenty-six senators to elect the President of the Republic. The Senate, as it is conceived, is by the majority of renziana or left, already with the current geography. Gentlemen, I have been a Member for two and a half years, and I have heard the Franciscans, the Fassinos, the Di Pietros invoke freedom and democracy against the caiman, the psychonanus, the peronist, the danger to democracy impersonated in Silvio Berlusconi, who at the time was the source of all the nequities and all the debacle that had happened or could have happened. I am therefore asking my colleagues in the Democratic Party: you have undergone a genetic transformation, you have been subjected to radiation. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] Are you a political and biological mutation at the same time as those people? You are helpless to try, for a mere party purpose, to suppress an elementary right, that of voters to choose Members and senators, because this time it suits you. But then those demi-vierges, those half-dressers of democracy, who admonished us at every step of the way about the danger of Berlusconism, what happened to them? That is the question. Obviously you want to profit from a distracted people who - pass me the term greve, but very significant - disgusted us as a political class. In twenty years, to put mud in the fan to bar the road to Silvio Berlusconi, you have in fact delegitimized the institutions and politics, and today exploited that carelessness and rejection towards politics in order to durpe the remaining part of the Italian people who invoke democracy. That's what this is about. You want to say, "I can resign and I dare you to resign." Let's untie the Senate! Let's all quit and go home! [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Volpi]] The abolition of all emoluments, including that of the President-in-Office of the Council, is included within this law. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pepe.]] We're not rags, dear Madame Verdurin! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL). I shall conclude, Madam President. We don't live in politics, behind us there is a profession, there is a decorum, there is a dignity, and it won't be a bum who likes to like that he will put - with other Nazarenes or alone - the democracy of this nation under his feet! [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u56	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to declare my vote, which is not a dissenting vote, because as I said yesterday to the President-in-Office, President Gasparri, the Mixed Group, by its constitution, is not made up of homogeneous political subjects. I shall therefore give my explanation of vote on this amendment, which will be abstaining. This is a very extensive amendment, since it concerns two entire Heads of the draft reform law, and so I would not want my possible vote in favour to be confused by someone with the desire not to reform the Constitution absolutely and in any way. As many colleagues have said, even by Senator De Cristofaro himself, there is everyone's will to reform the Constitution. For this reason, I would like to abstain, in order to give an indication of this type: we want to make the reforms, and therefore we do not want to delete, with one amendment, as many as 20 articles - if I have done correctly - which would correspond to Chapter I and Chapter II. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this moment we are discussing the abolition of Chapter I. Chapter II comes later. Orellana (Misto-ILC). The concept remains the same, Madam President. So my opposition or my favour of the text of the draft law will be more fully and more punctually expressed in the various amendments that have been tabled on the text in a more precise way, and I would say that there are enough. In conclusion, among our fellow citizens is passing the image of a Senate that has barricaded itself to defend its prerogatives and its compensation, according to a vision that in my opinion does not correspond to reality. On the part of all there is good will. Unfortunately, we left quickly, making a general and global negotiation among all the members of the Senate, first in the Commission and then in the Assembly, and unfortunately putting some prejudices; especially at the beginning it was the Government, which put the famous four stakes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Orellana, because Senator De Cristofaro spoke for his Group. Orellana (Misto-ILC). I'm gonna ask for a... president. We are already giving you some elasticity: I invite you to conclude. Orellana (Misto-ILC). So you're passing this image that we'd be closed to change. On the other hand, in this negotiation, as is rightly the case in a Parliament such as the Italian Parliament, we start with the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which are those four poles which cannot in any way be scratched and on which we cannot even reason. In particular, as Mr Minzolini said before, and many other times in general discussion, there is the famous knot of the elective Senate. I hope, however, that on this point there may be a form of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u59	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I must also note the progress of our work this morning. Two amendments have been hesitated and we have been here for an hour and a half. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u60	Senator Crimes, I remind you that everyone has the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u61	ZANDA (PD). Yesterday we worked from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. and we dealt with three amendments. Again yesterday, and even in the previous days, I had already made repeated appeals to all the groups to reduce the amendments. This first part of the debate confirms that this is possible. These five amendments we have discussed concern issues which can also be summarised and dealt with without prolonging further discussions on the same subject. I should therefore like to ask you, Madam President, to ask President Grasso to convene a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, because in that meeting, which is a political forum and an institutional forum for this objective, I would once again like to repeat the call for the Groups to take note of the situation that is being created and, together, to reflect on what strategies are possible to give the debate as much space as it serves to make it constructive, but also conclusive.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u62	Senator Zanda, President Grasso is definitely following the session. In any event, the Presidency will be responsible for communicating its request. Bisinella. I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. Forgive me, Senator Bisinella, but the President informed us live that he was asking to suspend the work and that the Conference of the Leaders was convened immediately. I respect the will of the President and therefore suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Leaders. [[There are protests from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups. The sitting was suspended at 10.58 a.m. and resumed at 1.07 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u63	The session is resumed. The work of the Conference of Leaders has been updated. It was therefore agreed unanimously to terminate the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-290.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.07 a.m.
