ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u2	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 1 p.m. on Tuesday 7 October, with the voting on the agenda for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. He's gonna start with the senators. Therefore, the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 7 October will end at 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure on measures to adapt to climate change and measures to clean up contaminated sites, to which the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on issues relating to measures to adapt to climate change. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Galletti, for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u6	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, Minister, it is now clear that climate change is no longer a future forecast, but a fact that has changed forever what was once called, with pride and with distinctive sentiment, the Mediterranean climate. According to the latest studies, including the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC) report and the European Environment Agency report, the Mediterranean region in particular will face particularly negative impacts of climate change in the coming decades. Our country is among the most vulnerable regions; in fact, in recent years, we have witnessed the repetition of particularly intense atmospheric events that, combined with the fragility of our territory, have caused the loss of numerous human lives and damage for billions. My region, Liguria, has now become, despite it, the paradigm of what is happening in almost all the country. I would just like to point out the latest dramatic events in this year: Gargano, Treviso and Marche. In recent years, various activities have been undertaken at European level to support national, regional and local climate change adaptation policies, which need to be combined with the essential mitigation and therefore reduction actions for climate change gases. Italy is among the countries that are preparing a national strategy for adapting to climate change. The processing was initiated in July 2012 by the Ministry of the Environment and the process of acquiring the basic information ended last July. In view of the above, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the current state of the process of drawing up the national strategy for adapting to climate change and the measures it intends to put in place for its full adoption and implementation. I would also urge you to ensure that Italy uses the European Presidency with authority to promote strong action to combat climate change and the conclusion by 2014 of the negotiations for the new 2030 targets, which must be more ambitious on reducing emissions, on the production of energy from renewable sources and on energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u9	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, thanks to a series of sector actions in recent years, there has been a significant increase in initiatives to guide our country towards a low carbon system. Among the many causes of climate change I would like to recall emissions from civil buildings and emissions from electricity production. Redevelopment of civil buildings could help to reduce CO2 emissions by more than 500,000 tonnes per year, with employment benefits, savings on fossil products and a reduction in energy dependence from abroad. Similarly, the production of electricity from renewable sources avoids emissions of greenhouse gases and accounts for 20% of the total national production to date. To achieve the European objectives, clarity and stability of resources are required to support investment, as the current forms of support for the sector are largely exhausted. In fact, at the date of July 31, according to GSE data, the commitment of 6.7 billion euros per year on the 7 available, for non-voltaic renewable sources (hydro, biomass, wind, geothermal) the amount of incentive is equal to more than 5 billion euros per year on the 5.8 available. I would like to ask you what action you intend to take to support the systematic energy redevelopment of civil buildings in order to reduce CO2 emissions, what action you intend to take to provide incentives for the production of electricity from renewable sources, ensuring stability and clarity to ongoing initiatives and possible futures, and if the Minister considers, in order to achieve the European Union's energy and climate objectives for 2020-2030, that it is possible to use any European funds that have remained unused in other areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u12	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, climate change, which is also compounded by bad policies on fossil energy, is seriously endangering the lives of millions of citizens. Climate change is a proven reality and the Ministry of the Environment notes that we are talking about adaptation measures. Minister, however, tell your colleagues to take note of this, so that they may begin to adapt to this binding reality, perhaps also by intervening in transport and energy. Clouds, floods and landslides have now become a constant and widespread phenomenon throughout the national territory, whose gravity has been recognized by the same Government that has established a specific unit of mission on the hydrogeological failure. The structure has the task of coordinating the implementation of the interventions already planned to spend the resources that the Regions and the extraordinary Commissioners have not been able to do in the years ago. In fact, there are no new resources, but only those already allocated, amounting to about EUR 3.5 billion. Already this is bleak and manifests the inability to translate words into action by those who have ruled this country in recent years and beyond. Are we sure we're spending resources well? Will it not be appropriate to check that the interventions you want to achieve maximize the relationship between risk reduction and spending? You know, Minister, it's about making spending more efficient and not just spending. It would be appropriate to adjust the sections of the rivers, perhaps simply by enforcing Royal Decree No. 523 of 1904, causing the entire building to be demolished in the 10 meters from the shores. Structural measures should be coordinated with civil protection plans at municipal and basin level. By means of rain and flow measurements, the loss of human lives can be prevented with warning systems. I therefore ask you, Minister, if you will give priority to interventions that maximize the relationship between saved lives and expenditure; if you will be coordinated with civil protection interventions to put in place a monitoring and alert system also in the basins not subjected to hydrogeological risk reduction interventions; if the Ministry intends to intervene for the adaptation of the sections of the rivers returning to Royal Decree No 523 of 1904 its safeguard function.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Minister, you of course know perfectly well all the data on climate change, the latest truly tragic and alarming report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the assessments recently released by the European Environment Agency (EEA). All this leaves little room for doubt now, and in the scientific community there is an absolute certainty also in indicating the Mediterranean area as a particularly vulnerable region, precisely because of the negative consequences of climate change and the combined effect of geographical location and human pressure on natural resources. The expected consequences relate in particular to an exceptional increase in average and maximum temperatures, the increase in the frequency of extreme weather events (an adjective that we may have to cancel, because, as we see from our daily experience, they are now continuous and constant events). In the face of all this, we would like to know what our country really intends to do and at what point is the process of the National Strategy of adaptation to climate change. In particular, we ask to have very precise news of the country's commitments on two issues: about the problem of water management, and therefore the consequences that may arise for the country's agri-food production and for the safety of all citizens, and about the commitment regarding hydrogeological failure. We are approaching the new stability law and we think it is appropriate to have clear and precise information about the government's commitments on these issues. Last but not least, I take advantage of your presence, Minister, because we would really like to have certain news about the whole story that concerned the famous Daniza Bear and know, at this moment, what commitment the Ministry of the Environment is taking for the protection of puppies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u18	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, climate change has long been leading to atypical and extreme weather events in our country with storms and water bombs. They are phenomena that, given the presence of an already vulnerable, poorly protected territory, with irresponsible and often abusive cementifications, are the cause of floods and phenomena of disruption such as landslides, landslides, erosions with serious material, economic and social damage. Article 7 of the decree unlocks Italy, currently under examination by the Chamber, contains rules to facilitate the implementation of interventions for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk, through program agreements between its Ministry and the Regions. However, with the exception of 110 million for watercourses (but only in metropolitan areas), the decree does not allocate new resources, while it establishes a withdrawal fund where the funds allocated in the past for mitigation actions for which work did not start at 30 September 2014. Also in view of the disasters that have occurred in recent months throughout the national territory, I point out that only in my Province of Lecco for which we trust in the recognition of the state of emergency requested by the Lombardy Region, this summer in the period only 29 June-31 August, the bad weather has hit many municipalities creating damages for 5,6 million euros, devastating damages for bodies already struggling with very little resources and with the constraints of the Stability Pact. Minister, I ask you: what are the government's plans for action on the economic planning of hydrogeological risk prevention interventions, including the cleaning up of rivers and torrents; whether the Government intends to intervene with the next law of stability with the allocation of new resources - it is hoped - to a greater extent than the 2014 budget; whether the Commission intends - once and for all - to provide for the exclusion from the Stability Pact for the costs of prevention and maintenance of the territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank all the interrogating senators for allowing me to address an absolutely central issue on this Government's agenda. The questions are very complex and I do not know if in the ten minutes I have allowed myself I will be able to answer them all. I believe, however, that we need a basis for all reasoning: climate change is an issue that needs to be addressed very seriously. Some of you said it loudly. We have been accustomed to view climate change as a problem for the grandchildren of our grandchildren. This - we know today because scientific data tell us this - is our problem and our children's, and this requires us to deal with it very seriously. You know that the scientific data we have available confirm that our country is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change both in relation to those in place and, above all, in relation to those expected in the coming years. These impacts, as is well known, have negative effects on all environmental and socio-economic systems, so they are intended, as I said before, to tighten up in the coming years. To react and prepare the country to address these impacts with the aim of increasing the resilience of natural and socio-economic systems, a complex and complex coordination work was carried out, which began in February 2012 with the involvement of the whole scientific community for the acquisition of data and information necessary to identify impacts, vulnerability and criticality. It is the first step towards a broader and shared path to the regulation of a national strategic framework that can analyse impacts and provide a set of adaptation measures with a view to future planning. A screening of all the information needed to address this issue has been carried out. Due to the quantity and relevance of the information thus acquired, as well as the complexity of the issue of the impact of climate change on natural and socio-economic systems, a technical and scientific table and an institutional working table were subsequently established, within which the participation of the scientific world, of all the relevant ministries and of the representatives of the Regions and other territories was guaranteed. The first draft was the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy, which took place in October 2013, and was subsequently opened to the public consultation to gain the opinion and suggestions of all stakeholders through specific meetings and online consultations. Just last July, following the collection of all the observations, its final version was drawn up which, led to the examination of the unified conference, was examined in the technical framework on 23 September, with a view to a formal adoption that should take place by the current month of October. So within the next few days we will be able to finally adopt the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy. I think this is a very important step in preparing for the concrete actions that we should take in the coming period. In particular, I would point out that the objective of the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy is to help make the country more resilient to the impacts of climate change, in line with the European Climate Change Adaptation Strategy and the platform implemented by the European Environment Agency. As many of the speakers have pointed out, one of our problems in climate change, i.e. climate change, is precisely that of hydrogeological failure. It is no coincidence that the attention of the Government to this issue has been a priority since the first meeting of the Council of Ministers. We have made a directing booth here, which I understand can only be regarded as a technical element, but it is a political element of priority on that subject. We are working on this issue. There are resources not spending on problems in part of the Stability Pact, partly because of legislation that is too difficult to implement; we have simplified it, we are simplifying it and I believe that by the end of the year some of those resources, which were blocked, will be able to unlock them. Is that enough? Absolutely not. We have to work to get more resources and spend them. The one who spoke of benefits and interventions is right. So, you have to spend the resources and spend them well. A national plan on hydrogeological failure must be drawn up and work in prevention and not only in emergency. I believe that the European funds for territorial cohesion will have to be allocated precisely to interventions against the hydrogeological disaster, which represents a real emergency in our country. I remember that people have died since the beginning of the year because of the hydrogeological failure. Every time a person dies because of the hydrogeological breakdown, it's a drama for the country. We must therefore be able to take strong action in this regard, as we are doing. As part of the European commitments, our country has also been actively engaged with policies and measures to reduce emissions. Much has been done, although there is still so much to do in this case, strengthening and optimising the instruments that are active both in terms of efficiency and renewable sources. The impact of renewables on final electricity consumption today is about 30%, a level that until recently was hoped to reach only in 2020. In 2012 the realization of the relevant plants has activated investments for approximately 13 billion euros and has guaranteed job to approximately 140,000 people; the maintenance of the same plants moves, in turn, approximately 3 billion euros per year and involves 53,000 employed. This is the best figure to point out that intervening and investing on the environment means investing on the country's employment and growth. The environment is not the enemy of the country's growth and occupation, but is his best friend. My Ministry is the best friend of the Ministry of Economic Development and of that of agricultural, food and forestry policies: I cannot do without them and they cannot do without us. The green economy, as this data shows, is the only sector that has produced, not only in Italy but in Europe, more economy and more jobs during the crisis. To close our eyes to this real fact would be to condemn our country to lose an important part of the economy that can contribute to its recovery in the coming years. Reasoning in financial terms, the total value of the various incentive systems put in place for renewable energy sources has reached a cost of more than € 12.5 billion per year that are charged by the bills. Also in this case, some figures make the idea of the potential to be exploited by next 2020: with regard to thermal production from renewables there is room to double it compared to the 2010 figure (from 5 million tons oil equivalent to 10 million); with energy efficiency we can get to generate savings for about 15 million tons of oil equivalent compared to the trend consumption, so about double what has been done so far. From a strategic point of view, the way forward is clear: push on energy efficiency, promote the development of thermal renewables and accompany the growth of electric renewables by balancing the mix of energy sources. The government is moving in this direction. With regard, in particular, to the energy redevelopment of buildings, the Government is moving on the property front, both public and private. An exemplary role is being restored to the efficiency of public buildings. In fact, with the transposition of Directive No 27 of 2012 (July 2014) it has been established that by 2020, each year, at least 3% of the useful covered area of buildings owned by and occupied by the central government will have to be renovated. Since 2015, this threshold has fallen to 250 square meters. Energy efficiency is one of those interventions that - as we use to say in jargon - are paid for themselves. If we manage to start energy efficiency interventions, in a few years we will recover from less consumption what we have spent on the actions carried out. This is what emerged with the ecobonus: when we introduced the ecobonus for building renovations, we had more tax revenue than the incentives given. For this reason, I will be a supporter of making ecobonus stable in our tax system for the coming years. I want to say one last thing about the government's commitment to the European Semester. We were the country that immediately joined the appeal launched by some countries to reach a virtuous agreement by the end of the year, possibly at the next meeting of 23 October among all the Heads of Government, for the reduction of CO2. I believe that Europe must play a leading role. We have signed a document that commits Europe's countries to 2030 by reducing CO2 emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990. I firmly believe that this is not a cost to the country system, but rather a great economic opportunity. If we can build on this data, on this important objective for the Planet (we are talking about this), if we can build on this data an industrial plan for a strong country, productive chains able to prepare the country for this challenge that is global and that will see - hopefully - a global agreement in 2015 at the great conference in Paris that will mark the difference between the first and the next in the global battle for climate change. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u22	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister because I am pleased with the answers he has given. I think there are also some good news, namely that by the end of the month will be produced this important report that will then have to live in the head and legs of Italians, institutions, the world of school, research. Therefore, a collective effort must be made. Risk mitigation and climate adaptation cannot be reserved for political spots or seminars; we need to radically change the way we live our Planet. Another flash. I am convinced that you will use the European Semester very well to make the things you have said prevail. An extraordinary target has been set by 2030: 40% is the target to be achieved. Finally, it seems to me that the government supports that ecobonus should become permanent, and I believe that this is another good news, because efficiency is one of the things we are not so prepared for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u25	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I take note of the general statement by the Minister. It seems to me that the perspective within which it places us is exactly the one described by the European Union recently also with the indication of the targets for 2020 and 2030. However, I would like to go into two issues, the first of which concerns energy efficiency. The Minister says well when he says that interventions are paid for themselves. However, I would have expected a few words about the different articulation of the ecobonus in terms of the connection between effectiveness and priority of the interventions and I would also have expected, precisely because it is paid for by itself but if nobody pays for it no entrepreneur does so, some indication regarding the criticality related to access to credit. With regard to the other declaration which I agree with, but which must be accompanied by concreteness, i.e. by the growth of renewable electricity, it is quite frankly necessary for the Government to give a perspective made of clarity and stability of the interventions so that the existing initiatives and any future initiatives can be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u28	CIOFFI (M5S). Minister, you have said things that may be acceptable but that disagree with Mr Guidi's positions, which, on the other hand, pushes on gas and oil. Perhaps you should review with the Minister to explain what we are talking about climate change. The photovoltaic sector went very well, but we have a serious delay, because Germany started the photovoltaic industry first and then granted incentives to start the industry. We, on the other hand, are always late. We therefore have structural problems that we should solve that are linked to the industrial vision of this country. Hydrogeological failure is a consequence of climate change, as you know. The problem is that we intervene with adaptation measures when these water bombs occur, while we should intervene with the restoration of legality. In other words, the buildings built where they were not to be built should be demolished. Royal Decree No 523 of 1904 has existed for a hundred years. It would be appropriate to control what has not been done over the last hundred years.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, we share many of the things you have said. The point is that to deal with the dramatic situation of climate change requires a fully coordinated government capacity for action. You are right to inform us - and we agree - about how much investment in renewables also produces in terms of employment. But we were faced, before the August break, with a competitive decree in which the rules and rules for this sector have been changed once again. Even with regard to ecobonus, we obviously welcome the announcement that you will endeavour to ensure that the measure is made stable; but the problem is, of course, that we always need certain rules, that cannot be changed. I am absolutely unsatisfied that he has not given me any answer on the issue of Daniza bear puppies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can come back later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u34	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, I welcome the commitment to define the national strategic plan for adapting to climate change, but I would like to remind you that in Italy there are regions (I am referring to the Campania Region) where only 50% of the municipalities have a municipal plan and civil protection, and this is serious. There are few resources. You did not answer my question: how many will you commit during the next financial law? With regard to the withdrawal fund, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance argues that 2.4 billion could be recovered, but I consider this to be an unlikely undertaking. I would point out, however, that there are regions, like Veneto, that have made programmes of intervention for 2 billion and that they are waiting for the financing from its Ministry. Finally, on the green economy: you say you support it, but with Decree No. 91 of 2014 (the Competitiveness Decree) you have given wood to the operators of the sector, through a retroactive, discriminatory and subject to appeal. Even with regard to the financing of municipalities, if they do not allow the derogation from the Stability Pact, they will not be able to use those resources (but few) to make energy efficiency interventions on schools and public buildings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u35	Let us now turn to the questions on measures to clean up contaminated sites, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u38	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, Minister, we are speaking today, in this part of the question time, on the subject of the sites to be reclaimed, starting from the last act published by your Ministry, namely the state of the reclamation procedures at 31 December 2013. It is a document that photographs the situation starting from the 57 sites of national interest historically identified, then passed to 39 for the derubrication to regionals of 18 of these. Minister, we have all become convinced that it is no longer a season of conflict between environment and production, between health and work, but that it is the opportunity and responsibility to restore healthy living to the areas concerned and compromised in the past and to create today's skilled work and eco-economy. We are also aware of the state of danger that these areas constitute for the population if we do not accelerate the interventions of completion of reclamation. It is precisely on the timing and course of the process of reclamation that I put my question today, Minister. We assume with reference to the study that the Sentieri project has carried out on the health profile of populations resident in 44 sites, which indicates, among other things, excess of pleura tumors in the sites with asbestos (remember Casale Monferrato), increases in mortality for cancer or respiratory diseases for the emissions of oil, petrochemical, steel and metallurgical plants (we cannot forget Taranto, Gela, Porto Torres, Sulcis). How can we not remember, then, the tragedy of the Land of Fires? I would also like to mention, due to its territorial proximity, the site of Cengio in Val Bormida, polluted by ACNA and in the process of defining compensation works. Time does not allow me to list the pathologies and sites, but I believe it is essential to continue in collaboration with the Higher Institute of Health for a timely updating of the study.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u41	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the strategy used by the various successive governments since 1998 has led to the implementation of massive characterisation programmes for polluted sites with a large amount of data, analysis and sampling. The total area perimeter would amount to about 100,000 hectares. The results obtained so far for the achievement of the reclamation of these areas are unfortunately not as relevant as the characterizations. In most SINs delays in the presentation of characterisation plans are generalized. In 2007 the Higher Institute of Health created the Sentieri project, which includes 44 sites of national interest for the reclamation of polluted sites (SIN). Well, this project has revealed very worrying data on the health conditions of the populations living in the SIN. To give the most striking example we could mention the data of Taranto, whose SIN contemplates the presence of a refinery, of a steel plant (ILVA), of a harbour area, of landfills of RSU and of a cement factory. Regarding the ionic city, the study shows excesses of pathologies for which the etiological role of the environmental exposures of the SIN is established or suspected on the basis of the a priori evaluation of epidemiological evidence. There is also an excess of infant mortality. In any case, mortality data in general are alarming. In addition, hospital admissions show special increases in numerous cancer conditions, such as the malignant tumor of the liver, lung, pleura mesothelioma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The quick analysis of such data also prompts us to ask you, Minister, to let us know which reclamation interventions are being carried out in the SIN of Taranto and in the other SIN of the rest of the country and, moreover, what further measures will be taken in the light of the findings of the Sentieri project, published over the last months by the Higher Institute of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u44	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, Minister, in this speech I am referring to the measure which unblocks Italy and, in particular, to Article 34, which is aimed at simplification but in a context which sees the Italian State in serious delay in the implementation, control and disbursement of funds. We find it unacceptable to extend the negotiated procedure without prior publication of the notice and not to consider variations in the interventions contained in less than 20% of the total, being 2-5 percent the usual value. We need a procedure which does not allow the award of contracts to firms which have already polluted or which do not offer adequate guarantees. We also find it doubtful that, in case of safety, soil characterisation is no longer necessary, but many sites have been classified for years now and the area of interest could now be more extensive because of the drift of contamination that, in many cases, also affects the aquifers. In fact, paragraph 10 (b) then takes this effect into account and is not understood because from paragraph to paragraph do not use the same approach. As far as on-site materials are concerned, we find it inappropriate that material of results may be mixed between the thresholds of contamination and risk, all the more so without a preliminary phase of analysis of the effects. In our opinion, it would serve in an immediate way for the sites subject to reclamation an appropriate phase of putting in safety and stopping the phenomenon of drift; an appropriate phase of monitoring and control of the SIN and the state of progress, and in this regard I bring the example of the SIN Terni Papigno that, from 2001 to today, has concluded the characterization for 54 percent of the surface, with 4 percent of the approved projects and only 0.8% of the surfaces returned to the community. There would also be a need for an appropriate phase of transparent management of procedures and procurement; clarification of the management of contaminated military sites and, finally, the establishment of a territorial database.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u47	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, in the first days of September the Dicastery you direct has allocated 8 million euros from the 2014 budget for the reclamations of four sites of national importance: 3 million to Piedmont for asbestos reclamation of Casale Monferrato; 2 million to Lombardy for the site of Brescia-Caffaro; 1.8 million for the Lakes of Mantova and Polo Chimico; 1.2 million to Calabria for Crotone. The funding is welcome, but these resources are very small compared to the current health emergency and the pollution risks faced by citizens. For this reason, Minister, I ask you: what are the government's financial programmes for the continuation and completion of the Bonifiche; if, within the framework of this programming, it urgently intends to identify and make immediately available the missing economic resources, which allow to complete the asbestos reclamation of the SIN of Broni in the Province of Pavia, which is one of the 57 most polluted sites of our country. I remember that asbestos, introduced into the working environment and in large-scale living environments, created in Broni a dramatic health emergency with a tragic number of deaths from asbestos related diseases such as mesotheliomas and various tumors, whose latency is decades. 3,800 people have died, including not only former workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u50	PEPE (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to know what the Minister's commitment to transparency on the national reclamation programme, access to administrative documents relating to procurement management and - it would also be interesting - access to health data available to ASLs is. In this respect, it is essential that the population knows exactly what are the treatments that are in place and where they are implemented, especially where the storage sites of residual materials related to the reclamation of land contaminated with industrial toxic waste, such as ashes and sludge from incinerators are located.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u53	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, the question I put to the Minister is very simple; in the so-called Land of Fires that has so much been talked about - I also believe to be inappropriate - where are we? There are 57 municipalities that are under monitoring, having been entrusted to the Higher Institute of Health the monitoring and the planned interventions with the limited appropriations for the years 2013 and 2014. In particular, Minister, it is absolutely necessary to avoid the possibility of further extension of volcanoes which have no foundation. Campania is full of parades, from priests to laity, from scientists to camorristi, who do nothing but denounce the presence of toxic, harmful and polluting substances. In the state, from what we know, nothing came out at all. Then of the two the one; or we do not know how to seek what is there, or much of what is said is not true. What is also the serious epidemiological statistic that connects the phenomenon of the Earth of fires with the increase of cancer pathologies? However, we must not go around because we have done only one damage to Campania; that of having banned from the agricultural markets all the fruit and vegetable products produced in Campania, which are sold to the other regions, with a beautiful label that attests that they are produced in other regions. We have only starved our farmers. Tell us at least one word of clarity about what you've established for a year now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u56	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Minister, the Government on 5 February 2014, in the context of the conversion of Decree-Law No 136 on environmental emergencies, accepted an agenda which included a series of proposals on the whole issue of environmental pollution, in particular as regards the area of Campania, north of Naples and south of Caserta Province. Specifically, I would like to ask you, Minister, about the state of implementation of the procedures that the Government has accepted at the time: the characterization of the geochemical composition of agricultural soil in areas with potential or established risk; the determination of the level of bioavailability of toxic elements with respect to plant matrixes; the definition of the potential migration routes followed by pollutants from the environmental geological sector to the biological one; the determination, with certain parameters, of the quality of agricultural soils and irrigation waters; the assessment of the agricultural destination of the land indicated as unfit for agri-food production; the assessment of the quality, quantity and persistence of contaminants and the actual impact on food safety. It seems to me that these are preliminary reflections to any other and proper consideration as regards the possible causal link between environmental pollution and the incidence of pathologies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u57	Mr President, I make a very brief premise, which is neither a justification nor a desire to move forward. It becomes really difficult to answer, because you have asked me complex and very serious questions. There are eight questions, each of which deserves an articulated answer: I have one minute and 15 seconds for each answer. It is impossible to convince you of the goodness of my answers, because they are necessarily superficial, but, since I like impossible challenges, I try. I will do so by reading a written text very quickly, without personal comments, although I would like to do them to explain some things, but I don't have the time. I'll start with the Paths project. The Sentieri study was started in 2007. In a first phase a thorough and extensive bibliographical research was carried out to identify the pathologies potentially related to environmental exposure to pollutants most present in the SIN. On this basis, a priori approach, i.e. relating only to the selection of the causes against which there was an alleged cause-effect relationship, mortality studies (tumour, cardiovascular) were initiated in 44 SIN of the 57 identified at the time. 44 SIN were selected as the other 13 did not have the characteristics to be admitted to a geographical epidemiological study. The first phase of the study ended in 2010 with an assessment of an excess mortality of about 10,000 cases for all NSIs during the study period. Since 2010, the second phase of the study has been launched which, thanks to a collaboration at national level with the cancer registers present on the Italian territory, has allowed to identify the incidences of tumors, that is how many cases of tumor diagnosis are made and not only the mortality of tumor. Since cancer registers are not uniformly distributed across the country, this meant that the study covered only 18 SIN initials 44. The data relating to the second phase of the Sentieri study were published in May 2014 in a monographic issue of the magazine . "Epidemiology and prevention" and can be downloaded directly from the magazine's website. The objective of the study - phase 1 and phase 2 - is to assess the impact on human health of pollution phenomena. It should be noted that the Sentieri study does not establish a certain causal link between exposure and onset of the disease, but only provides indications that should then be deepened at local level. The Pathways study - I remind you - is followed by the Higher Institute of Health with a specific funding of the Ministry of Health, which is entrusted with primary competence and is fully shared by my Dicastery. With regard to the update of the situation of the reclamations in the ILVA area of Taranto, given the broad theme of the problem posed, I will briefly explain the necessary contents. Decree-Law No 61 of 2013 provides that the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the President of the Council, may decide on the extraordinary commissioning of an undertaking, which operates at least one establishment of national strategic interest, whose activity has involved and involves serious and significant dangers to the integrity of the environment and health due to non-compliance with the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA). A first application of the decree concerned the ILVA of Taranto, for which a commissioner and a sub-commissary were appointed. The complex problem of the Apulian company was also reflected in other measures. In the decree-law on rationalisation in public administrations in August 2013, for example, measures are foreseen to ensure the implementation of the plan and of the environmental and health protection activities, necessary to ensure compliance with the legal requirements. In Decree-Law No 136 of 10 December 2013, in order to deal with environmental and industrial emergencies and to promote the development of the areas concerned, measures are provided for the authorisation of interventions provided for by the plan of environmental and health protection activities, aimed at reducing the implementation time. Decree-Law No 100 of 16 July 2014 defines the terms and conditions for the application of the provisions of the AIA and also stipulates that the commissioner may obtain financing that is functional to environmental and health protection, or to the continuation of the business. The Commissioner for ILVA, in the context of the actions to cover the mineral parks provided by the AIA, presented the final project to put in emergency safety of the groundwater in the primary parks and Loppa Park area which provides for a supplemental plan of environmental characterization of the raw materials parks area, supplementing the characterisation plan of the areas of competence ILVA, carried out in 2006. With reference to the Bonifications and simplifications, Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 provides that the Ministry of the Environment is the responsible administration of the procedures for securing and reclamation of the areas included in the perimeter of the 40 sites of national interest. The strategy defined by the Dicastery to give impetus to the activities of securing and reclamation of the areas included in the perimeter of the SIN can be summarised as follows: simplification of procedures and regulations (in conjunction with enhanced controls), acceleration of administrative procedures of competence, greater interlocation with companies, greater involvement of local and regional authorities in decisions and transparency. Allow me just one word on this point, which I particularly care about: all this is needed if, as I said before, we are to strengthen controls. If this is not the case, simplification may fail to achieve its objective and become a way of avoiding the environmentalisation of certain areas. With reference to the simplification of procedures, we note the signing with Terna of a special protocol to allow the realization of linear works, the simplification of the prescriptions and the decentralization of the procedures, with the organization of local technical tables on specific problems. In order to recall some data, in the first seven months of the year, from 1 January to 1 August, 62 decrees have been prepared for reclamation projects of the SIN areas (51 approval, 8 authorization to start work and 3 approval of dredging projects), more than double, therefore, compared to the whole 2013. Even more significant, however, is the comparison from 2000 to today: in these first seven months, in fact, 23% of the totality of the decrees has been prepared. I believe that this is a positive fact, but it must not cause our attention to be reduced on the subject (attention which has also been placed today by the interrogating senators). With regard to the resources allocated to the reclamation sites of national interest, those allocated in the first days of September are approximately 8 million euros, as recalled: it has been tried to optimize the use of these few resources by devoting them to the situations currently most critical, both from the environmental and social-sanitary point of view. In addition, for the continuation of the subsidies, I have presented a requirement for reclamation operations at national sites of 2,178 billion euros, as a request from the Development and Cohesion Fund. If you ask me where we are going to take the money, I would like to reply to you, as I said earlier, that we are going to take it from the Cohesion Fund, which I believe is the right instrument for the reclamation and the fight against hydrogeological risk. So we're gonna do this. As far as the European directive on soil is concerned, many countries, besides our own, are affected by soil degradation, such as erosion and pollution. The soil is threatened by persistent degradation phenomena, the most important of which are contamination, landslides, erosion, the loss of agricultural soils, waterproofing and the reduction of the organic substance content. A coordinated approach can make an important contribution to overcoming these challenges. However, the soil-protection legislative instrument must focus on mature operational indicators for large-scale use, with scientific insight into soil biodiversity issues. In particular, the waterproofing and soil consumption aspects should be addressed through the definition of targets for reducing net soil consumption. Let me just point out that there is an important draft law on land consumption in Parliament: I appeal to you to carry it forward as quickly as possible, because this is a necessary measure for this phenomenon. With reference to the question about the so-called Land of Fires, I would first of all like to say that the Government's commitment was from the beginning at the highest level and will remain so until those lands are returned to the citizens of Campania. It is a battle that we want to carry on tirelessly alongside the citizens of those lands and against the national evil, not only Campania or the South, which has been the protagonist of serious environmental disasters. That is not a problem of Campania, but it is a problem of all the national territory, because all the national territory has helped to cause the intolerable situation that exists in that area. Decree-Law No 136 of 2013 provides that some organisations are at work to verify, through technical mapping surveys, the possible existence of contaminants, spills or illegal disposals in land intended for agricultural use. 57 municipalities have been identified, located in the provinces of Naples and Caserta, on which to carry out investigations. Since the end of 2013, a working group has been set up that sees together my Ministry, that of health and that of agriculture, in close coordination with the State Forestry Corps and the various bodies concerned, which has defined a scientific model for the classification of land potentially affected by illicit spills of waste. The sites affected by spills, for a total of 1,146 hectares, were divided into 5 risk classes. Technical analyses and scientific integrations, together with the photographic survey work on the territory, have identified 51 sites in the highest risk classes. In the interests of direct investigations and in accordance with the precautionary principle, the placing on the market of agricultural products was prohibited. On the basis of the aforementioned decree, the planned sampling activity was carried out on the 51 sites concerned and the acquisition of the results of the analyses is currently under way, which, moreover, present a particular complexity from the technical point of view. On the basis of the results of the complex analyses carried out on the land at risk, the land of the Campania region, which cannot be used for agri-food production, will be definitively identified, but exclusively for different crops in view of the phytopurative capacities, i.e. the land to be used only for certain agri-food productions. Much of this information is also available on the site that we have created ad hoc and dedicated to this topic. I would now like to respond to the state of implementation of certain procedures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, your time would be over, but you can finish your speech. The question about the puppies, put by Senator De Petris, has remained unanswered. Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of Land and Sea. With regard to the determination, with certain parameters, of the quality of agricultural soils and irrigation waters, it is envisaged, in particular with regard to the quality of water intended for irrigation, the adoption of a specific Regulation defining the basic quality parameters of water intended for use in irrigation on food crops and their methods of analysis, in order to ensure the protection of the environment and health, as well as to regulate the verification and possible modification of the technical standards for the reuse of waste water. The implementation of the compliances referred to in Article 1, paragraph 6-e, of Decree-Law No 136 of 2013, is being finalised the regulation for the definition of the fundamental quality parameters of water intended for irrigation use on food crops, in collaboration with the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, and with the technical-scientific support of the national research institutes. In this regard, given the aims of the regulation aimed at ensuring the appropriate characteristics of irrigation water for use on food crops for the purposes of consumer protection, there is an urgent need for a regulatory change to ensure the involvement of the Minister of Health, the primary holder of food hygiene and safety expertise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He didn't even add a tail note on the puppy issue. We reserve the right to still have you among us, Minister. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u60	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr Minister, I very much appreciate the frankness with which you have dealt with the objectivity of not being able to solve in ten minutes such a broad and complex subject, as I have seen with favor the data on the acceleration of the process of updating the Bonifications of our sites of national interest. I repeat only two points: the first is the need to maintain investment and study on epidemiological data and, above all, on prevention, while I think that the institutions, the Government and Parliament, share the responsibility of producing a law on land use as soon as possible; I refer to rules that result in the acceleration of procedures to get out of this deadlock and to reaffirm, above all, the responsibilities of those who pollute, stabilise and update regulations and arrive at the adoption and implementation of a European directive on soil.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u63	ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, we appreciate your commitment, in particular, to the issue of the reclamations of the SIN areas. Mr Bruni made the example of the Taranto case, but similar considerations could be made for the neighbouring territory of Brindisi where a programme agreement of 2007 provided for large financial resources for the reclamation activities. To date, few hundreds of thousands of euros have been available in the Ministry of the Environment compared to the 70 provided for. With this situation we will not be able to revive the industrial area of Brindisi, although it is well infrastructured and able to accommodate new development opportunities. For these reasons, which relate to Brindisi but which can be reproduced in all the SINs, we ask the Minister for the utmost commitment on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u66	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr Minister, I would like to remind my colleagues, but above all to Senator D'Anna, that it is true that sometimes there is no causal link, but a much more intelligent principle called a precaution. Minister, you spoke of strengthening controls. From our point of view there are many doubts because we cannot understand how these controls will be enhanced. We will maintain our control over the implementation of your decrees, especially in the light of another decree. I am referring to the simplification of the public administration which provides for the dissolution of the forestry body. Another question concerns the 8 million appropriations you have mentioned, out of a total demand of 2.6 billion. In fact, there would be 2 billion and 592 million missing, if I didn't miscalculate. I wish you good work and we hope to work together to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u69	PEPE (Misto-MovX). Minister, I am not very satisfied with your answers to the truth. I hope that the reclamations will not be done in the Italian way, i.e. reclamation on the one hand in order to pollute on the other because we do not yet know where this waste is going and what type of treatment is being carried out. Another thing I would like to stress is that health data, which already exist in ASLs, rightly indicate that we are in the national average, but this is because all averages have grown. Senator D'Anna is right when he says it is strange that it is only Campania that pays in these terms. All regions have a toxic waste problem and we ask for clarity on the other areas as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u72	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, you said you were going to draw resources from the Cohesion Fund to make the payments, but you didn't talk about the timing. When will you allocate the 20 million for the reclamation of Broni where people will continue to be exposed to risks? There were thousands of victims, I said before. 20 million are few compared to the 50 billion fiscal surplus that the Lombardy Regions boasts towards the State. I would like to make a reflection: the concrete-asbestos material was not born as illegal material, but was imposed by public authorities and the State in the procurement chapters to carry out public works. So, all the more so, it is a moral duty of the State to intervene immediately on this front. Broni deserves the money to clean up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u75	D'ANNA (GAL). Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation: not all Campania is full of polluted, toxic and harmful sites, but there are only 51 of them compared to the 1,500, 2,000 or 3,000 of which was vague when the volcano was not a precautionary principle, but the alarmism of those who do the trade alarmists and businessmen who do the job of those who obtain special laws and special interventions to obtain funds. In the meantime that we carry out these complex analyses, the phenomenon is still increasing: there are still people burning the garbage (to say it in an accessible way to the most, since there is direct television). Campania has had a plan for the integrated waste cycle of the Bassolino era, which is eight years old. He renovated it and resolved it a year and a half ago. What do you do to force the Governor of the Campania Region not to think that the garbage can continue to spill into the ditches, but must be treated, as in every part of the world, also in the Campania Region according to an integrated cycle of waste? You must know, in fact, that in Campania we are convinced that the law of Lavoisier applies to waste that nothing is created and nothing is destroyed, but everything is transformed. So they throw the garbage in the countryside and set it on fire. You must therefore take action, including the appointment of a Commissioner to act to ensure that the integrated waste cycle plan is carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u78	ROMANO (PI). Minister, I am pleased with the intervention and clarification that you have put to my attention and to our attention, both with regard to the methodology that you are following, which is certainly interdisciplinary and not multidisciplinary, and with regard to criteria, relying on scientific data and surveys that can give us an extremely detailed picture. But I would say even more: you have shown that starting a work on these strict criteria, it is a work in progress that will certainly take into account all the other indications that will come from the judicial authority, which continues to investigate, and from a deepening regarding the causal link, if there is in some areas, between pollution and pathological manifestations. I think the road is on. Of course, it would have been presumptuous, on my part and my colleagues, to ask her for a definitive answer of a work that has begun for a few months and that on the other hand collects a heavy legacy: that of a complete abandonment of some areas, small in comparison to the totality of Campania, but that characterizes, to me it seems, also vast areas of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u79	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Galletti for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-323.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again on Tuesday 7 October 2014, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.06 p.m.
