ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on Document IV, No 1, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of telephone conversations by Senator Denis Verdini, a Member of the Court of First Instance, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, and Article 6 of Law No 140 of 20 June 2003, transmitted by the judge for the preliminary hearing at the Court of Rome, in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him (No 37011/10 RGNR - No 7698/11 RG GIP). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the granting of authorization to use the interceptions against Senator Verdini, a Member at the time of the events, requested by the judge for the preliminary hearing at the Court of Rome. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pezzopane, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 April 2013, the judge for the preliminary hearing at the Court of Rome sent to the Senate an application for authorisation to use telephone conversations of Senator Denis Verdini, a Member of the Court of Justice at the time of the facts, in criminal proceedings No 37011/10 the general register of criminal offences - No 7698/11 the judicial register of the gip. The President of the Senate referred this request to the Council on 7 June 2013 and announced it in the Chamber on 11 June 2013. The Giunta examined the question in numerous sessions: of 30 October, 20 November, 11 December 2013, 18 and 25 February, 4 and 5 March 2014, also listening to Senator Verdini, pursuant to article 135, paragraph 5, of the Rules of the Senate, at the session of 11 December 2013. The gip considered the intercepted conversations - referred to in the document in question - relevant and their accidental interception, considering therefore the same subject to subsequent authorization of the Chambers, as provided by Article 6 of Law No 140 of 2003. The request for authorisation concerns 31 telephone conversations recorded between April 2008 and July 2009. The investigations in question concern the well-known affair of the contracts for the so-called great works, in relation to which Angelo Balducci and Fabio De Santis, as ministerial officials and in violation of the duty of impartiality, with constant enslavement of their functions to the interests of private individuals, would have undertaken to support the companies of Fusi and De Vito Piscitelli in the award of contracts for the realization of public works, among which the one inherent in the Marshal School of the Carabinieri and those related to great events, including the World Swimming Championships Rome 2009, the 150th anniversary of the Unity of Italy and the G8 Summit in La Maddalena. Senator Verdini is accused, in competition with others, for the offences referred to in the combined provisions of Articles 319, 110, 319-bis and 321 of the penal code, since, urged by the Fusi and Balducci, he would have acted in such a way as to favor, by virtue of his political-institutional role, the appointment of De Santis as interregional provider for public works for Tuscany, Umbria and the Marche, a task that would have allowed him to continue the illegal activity outlined above in relation to the contracts for the great works for the benefit of the whole system. With regard to the intercepts in question, it is first specified that the same take place on two distinct utilities, the first in use to Angelo Balducci and the second in use to Riccardo Fusi. Only two interceptions were made on Balducci's users, both on August 4, 2008, while on Fusi's users there are 31 interceptions and span a time span ranging from April 23, 2008 to July 6, 2009. The absolute numerical smallness of the intercepts made on the users used at Balducci (just two) is the first symptomatic element of the occasional character of these captivating activities. It should also be considered that the information of the ROS of the Carabinieri of 6 August 2011 shows that Senator Verdini and Dr. Balducci met on 30 July 2008, so just five days before the date of the intercepts in question (4 August 2008). This is to be assessed in the light of what the Constitutional Court stated in judgment No 113 of 2010, in which it is pointed out that the usual interlocking relationships between the intercepted person and the parliamentarians constitute a symptomatic index (even if not decisive and not decisive) of the instrumental use of the third party's users in order to investigate the parliamentarians. In the present case, the five days between the knowledge of the two parties concerned and the interception constitute such a short period of time as to exclude any habituality in the interlocations between them. As for the 31 telephone intercepts on the users in use to Dr. Fusi, it must be pointed out that in this case the direction of the investigation - referred to in the historical judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 390 of 2007 - is undoubtedly oriented towards the entrepreneur Fusi, expected that the same, as reported in the context of the request for authorization of the judge for preliminary investigations, enters into the complex investigation following his relations with the suspect Francesco Maria De Vito Piscitelli, in turn in preferential relationship with the ministerial officials De Santis and Balducci. Dr. Fusi was therefore the direct recipient of the interception activity in the light of the wider and more articulated context in which the investigation was located following the above-mentioned reports held by the same and in the light of the consequent necessity for the investigative organs to find evidence capable of proving the various hypotheses of corruption emerged from the Fusi itself. Moreover, the numerical smallness of the intercepts of Senator Verdini carried out on such users constitutes a significant symptomatic index of the occasionality and chance of these activities of capture, expected that on the users of Fusi were picked up 52,028 conversations, regarding which the 31 conversations with Senator Verdini for which authorization is asked are objectively a laughing number, if compared precisely with the remaining 51.097. Another important aspect to be assessed is the need for the current investigation act. As the Constitutional Court has clarified in judgment n. 188 of 2010, the Chamber must be able to ascertain, from the examination of the request (and any annexes), that there are both the requirement, so to speak, "negative" of the absence of any persecutory or instrumental intent of the request, and that, so to speak, "positive" of the established "need" of the act, motivated in terms of non implausibility. The Court, therefore, does not confer on the Chamber a power to review data already evaluated by the judicial authority, but only the power to find, through the analysis of the reasoning of the act, that the data are not implausible from the point of view of necessity. In the present case, the justification for the request for authorisation appears to be entirely appropriate and logical in this respect, making the arguments consistent, with regard to the relevance of the conversations intercepted on the subject of the prosecution. During the general discussion, held during the session of 25 February 2014, in the Junta of the elections, it was stressed that the interceptions continued even after the registration of Senator Verdini's suspects in the register and this element - in the opinion of some senators who intervened - may raise doubts about the random nature of the interceptions in question. Preliminarily, it is stated in this regard that the registration in the register of the suspects of Senator Verdini is of 11 February 2009 and therefore the only intercepts after that date are only two, made on the users of the Fusi on 26 May and 6 July 2009. The first call after the registration, made on 26 May 2009, deals with orders related to reconstruction activities after the earthquake in Abruzzo obtained from a consortium of companies. The second, carried out on 6 July 2009, concerns the allocation of the shares of a company being formed. All this said, it is evident that the Constitutional Court in judgment No 114 of 2010 addresses the problem of the applicability of Article 6 of Law No 140 of 2003 also in cases of interceptions, carried out on third-party telephone users, in proceedings in which parliamentarians are already subject to investigations and therefore already entered in the register of suspects. The Court finds that: In this case, however, there is no doubt that the qualification of interception as "random" requires a particularly careful verification in order to identify any elusive conduct. The Court points out, however, that even in relation to interceptions on third-party users made after registration in the register of suspects, it cannot even be assumed that there is an absolute presumption of the "direct" character of the interception. It should therefore be pointed out that if, as the Court authoritatively claims, there is no absolute presumption, valid as such for all situations, then it is necessary to assess on a case-by-case basis whether there are elements capable of allowing the classification of the two above mentioned interceptions in the context of those fortuitous ones. However, the Constitutional Court in judgment No 390 of 2007 followed an approach whereby the Chamber to which a request for authorisation is addressed must first verify the direction of the investigative act, i.e. whether it is addressed teleologically and functionally exclusively to third parties to whom the interceptions are addressed or, vice versa, whether it is aimed at capturing, in fraud laws, circumstantial elements at the expense of the Member by subjection to the control of third party telephone users. The functional parameter of the direction of the investigative act, on which, as mentioned above, the Court focuses its attention in judgment No 390 of 2007, presupposes that the circumstance of the identification by the issuing authority of any inditiary framework, even incomplete or scarce, at the expense of the Member is not sufficient. In fact, an inditatory framework is needed to change the objective of the investigation and consequently the function of the interception. On the basis of this approach, it is likely that in the present case there has not been an effective change in the direction of the investigation, despite the inclusion of Senator Verdini in the register of suspects, given that the inditatorial framework found at this stage was not yet sufficiently complete (and in any case could not possibly result in a real change in the direction of the investigation act), as implicitly demonstrated by the length of the time span between the inscription itself (on 11 February 2009) and the request of the public prosecutor for referral to trial, signed on 8 February 2012, that is, three years later. The large time gap (of three years) implicitly reveals the incompleteness of the initial circumstantial framework, expected that the prosecutor had to carry out for another three years investigative activities in order to acquire sufficient circumstantial elements to request the referral to the judgment of Senator Verdini. If this element is added to the absolute numerical smallness of the interceptions following the inscription of Senator Verdini in the register of suspects (as mentioned, just two), it seems reasonable to assume that in the case at hand there has been no change in the direction of the investigation act before the completion of the interceptions. Another element, which emerged during the debate, is that of the business relations between Senator Verdini and Dr. Fusi, capable of making the telephone talks between these two subjects predictable. This approach is not acceptable. It should be noted that even in the case, merely hypothetical, where the predictability of the conversations between Verdini and Fusi was evident, this element would not be sufficient on its own, requiring a real change in the direction of the investigation (which occurred at the time when the interception was carried out) to consider the collection activity illegitimate. A different interpretation would be incompatible with the principles enshrined in the Consulta and would produce paradoxical effects on the concrete plane, forcing investigators to interrupt the interceptions on third party users as soon as it emerges that one of the recipients interlogates with a parliamentarians, regardless of the change of direction of the investigation and therefore also in cases where this change is not in concrete evidence and the parliamentarians is therefore not directly involved in the investigation. For the above mentioned, the Giunta has decided to propose to the Shareholders' Meeting the granting of authorization to use interceptions against Senator Verdini with reference to Document IV, n. 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u6	I declare the debate open. Senator Verdini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u7	Mr President, thank you, and I thank the Council for the elections and the parliamentary immunity. I would like to speak to my fellow Members, and I ask you, Mr President, to be able to speak on all the documents on the agenda that concern me: it is useless for me to make several speeches. I can therefore anticipate the speech on the other documents: I know the subject and I therefore ask you, Mr President, to be able to make a single speech, putting it all together. I also ask this not to be bored, because I should repeat the same things several times.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u8	I would like to ask whether there are any comments in this regard: the point is whether Senator Verdini can comment on all the documents on the agenda which concern him, with a single intervention, or whether he should confine himself to the first of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u10	You have the right to do so. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, for the sake of clarity, we would prefer a separate debate between the various issues, so as not to confuse them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u11	There is no problem, Mr President: I will speak on a general point. I will refer to the facts of the first report and only in general to the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u12	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u13	VERDINI (FI-PdL XVII). I do not want to disregard the needs highlighted, but it is essential to put everything together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u14	I take advantage of the interruption to greet the students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Ettore Majorana) in Avezzano, in the province of L'Aquila, and the Institute of State Higher Education (Carlo Emilio Gadda) in Langhirano, in the province of Parma, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u15	Senator Verdini, you can resume your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I appreciate the effort of the rapporteur, Senator Pezzopane, to keep things together that are not together. I want to simplify: I do not care about the outcome of this vote, because I believe that interceptions are a particular thing - they should not be read, but heard - and that inside the interceptions, depending on who reads them and what wants to read us, there is good and evil for the one who has been intercepted. This is a very serene advance. In fact, reading some of these requests makes me smile because I remember the phone calls, while others I want to listen to because I don't remember them, but in essence I don't fear the issue. I propose another kind of debate here, telling the rapporteur that there is not so much to be done: there is a very simple question in life (I also address the President, who has been magistrate in his history): one thing can be done or cannot be done, period. It's not that you can stretch: you can do it or you can't do it. The immunity of Members of Parliament is that relating to interception. Around this assumption, which did not write Verdini, but which is in the Constitution, is being played. I am surprised by colleagues because you cannot play on this subject: either you can or you can't. The Constitutional Court has clarified the matter. Take, for example, the argument put forward by my colleague Mr Pezzopane that there are few interceptions and even 31 are few, in relation to those of the others. In the meantime, it's about me and not about the others, so the comparisons are about me and not about the others. The rapporteur, I repeat, said that two interceptions are few (and I believe that she is not only right, but more); but when she said that 31 interceptions are few, in relation to the 50,000 made to the main defendant, it seems to me to stretch the problem: either it can be done or it cannot be done. If it can be done, it is fine: this House, together with the other branch of Parliament, removes parliamentary immunity, it is so simple, and so the debate ends. If it cannot be done, we cannot look all the time, inside, for the reasons and why, as my colleague Mrs Pezzopane has brilliantly done, because this is not in heaven or on earth. I do not speak to this House, to which I have already addressed myself in the Commission and today, saying that I do not care about the outcome, but I am speaking to the public. Another omission made by my fellow Senator Pezzopane concerns the fact that this investigation begins in 2007, not on the dates he says: let my registration be in the register of suspects. Furthermore, Mr President, on my honour, there are not 31 calls with Fusi, because I made ten calls a day. So, there's a selection upstream. I don't have the phone records and I don't have this chance; you have to believe me about honor: it's not possible that at that time there are 31. So, who decided to wear those and remove the others? Who decides whether or not a Member can be intercepted on the users of a third party? Who? The agent? The prosecutor who isn't there, and when he learns it's been a while? That's why I say: can or can't you? We need to simplify this, because it is not fair. Mr President, I have 17,846 pages of newspapers in my office today - I repeat, 17,000, not one - where it is told, and everyone is told about it, so what is the problem? I would add that of these 17,000 pages, some dozen are the opening titles of the "Corriere della Sera" and "La Repubblica" - given the political role I understand - and there are dozens of news openings, from TG1 to TG5, so the whole constitutional arc. Mr President, I would like to address you, as I also asked the Junta: can we or can we not? You see, today, compared to the past, technique helps us: there is no need for interpretations or all these adjustments or to uncomfortable the Constitutional Court, which has already spoken on the subject. It would seem simple to me that with a small machine, which costs less than 12,000 euros, the senators and Members would deliver their telephone number to the President and, through this machine, third or not third parties, after once or twice, depending on the indication, that user is no longer interceptable. I'm not talking about the third, I'm talking about the congressman and the senator. Can or can't you? The technique has made it possible today with a moderate expense, since we are in the area of cutting costs and spending reviews, to solve the problem if this House and that of the other branch of Parliament determine whether one can or cannot, not by delegation to the magistrate - who does his job - or to the policeman - who does another job - and not by giving the newspapers 17,000 possibilities to write: it is decided whether one can or cannot. Mr President, I have a lot to say, but - Mr Giarrusso is right - I cannot touch the elements of the other requests for authorisation, because that is how I committed myself. It's not a problem, even if I would have to say more or less the same things. I conclude by recalling what has been done to me and inviting the House to reflect, because then the accounts are done in the end. I have no problem facing the trials; indeed, they come well and it is certainly not my fault if, after investigations opened in 2007 today we are in 2014, I had little to do with it. However, I would like to recall a story of a great Florentine confessor, St. Philip Neri, who made the confessor in the Cathedral of Florence. A gentleman, a usurer and a murderer came to him (as they described me, President, with all these things), he confesses to him and finally says to him: I have also said many slanders and many falsehoods and lies. San Filippo Neri then answered him: I'm sorry, I can't give you absolution. The usurer then asks: "But how, I confessed robberies, usury and murders and she absolves me, and for these things not?" San Filippo Neri answers: "Look, there is a solution." (And I ask you, President, and I have suggested how you can do it to prevent this from happening again in the future, not for me, because I am here by now). I have a solution to absolve you. Take a chicken on a windy day and go from Florence Cathedral to Piazza Cavour, through the so-called Via Larga, today via Cavour, a distance of about one and a half kilometers. "Spend that chicken and, when you get to the top, stop, stop for a couple of hours, go back and collect all the pens." The usurer then answers: "But it is impossible." Reply San Filippo Neri: "Appunto. That's why I don't absolve you. Do as you like, I say to this House. I don't care. Think of the future, so that what happened to me does not happen again for interceptions of which today it is decided whether or not to authorize the use. Think about it first, because later it's late, and there's no acquittal from one like St. Philip Blacks either. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LAG groups and Senator Centinario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly incredible to hear in this House words of veiled threat to colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from some senators of the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] This is unbelievable. Just as it is incredible to think of even proposing the purchase of a machine not to be intercepted, to be protected from the law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's the Constitution! Not the law! GIARRUSSO (M5S). I would like to remind Mr Malan, who rightly invokes the Constitution, that it provides for an arbitrator to explain the content of the laws when there are substantial differences or when interests are at stake. This referee is the Constitutional Court, which has well specified - Mr Verdini - in the judgment n. 114 of 2010 what is meant by chance. Senator Verdini well reported that he made 30 calls a day to one person. But Mr Verdini will make thousands of phone calls, so 30 phone calls in a year are simply what the Constitutional Court called random. Senator Verdini was not intercepted: another user was intercepted and, of the tens of thousands of phone calls of Senator Verdini with that user, some were randomly intercepted. An insignificant amount, but important. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Shut up! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Colleagues, without extending much longer, it is Senator Verdini himself who tells us that it is irrelevant to him what we will decide, with great offense for our work, as if to say: Do what you want, I am not interested, and without any humility towards colleagues, this House and the work we do. We say we're not above the law. We in the 5 Star Movement, who, while sitting in this House, continue to believe that we are citizens, tell you that people out there are demanding respect from their parliamentarians. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] It is not respectful to think of spending thousands of euros not being intercepted. This is not a respectable way of putting oneself as a victim to the administration. Here the only victims are the citizens, victims of these crimes! We must not forget that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If Senator Verdini, as I hope and hope, has nothing to hide, he will certainly have no problem exposing the contents of some phone calls: as he said, he does not care. If he complains about the indignities of the newspapers, he will explain his reasons in the proper offices, i.e. in the courtrooms, where, in contradictory and defended by the best lawyers - as he will certainly be - he will be able to assert his reasons. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the proposal by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to allow the use of interceptions against Senator Verdini and to accept the rapporteur's argument. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u19	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr Pezzopane's report did not entirely convince me. Above all, I was not convinced of his way of using the Constitutional Court through the constant quotations of the Court's judgment - which was referred to by the previous colleague - as a basis for tacit constitutional dictation. The constitutional dictation is crystal clear. I have, biographically, the unfortunate chance of being present in this House when, between 1992 and 1993, colleagues not of my own political side but worthy of much esteem, like the Senators Maccanico and Pellegrino, were unshakable so that, in the amending text that we sent to the House (and which was then archived by the rabid square of the double vote on Craxi), the Constitution was clear, simple and clear. In some way, in its Florentine essentiality, apart from the beautiful quote of San Filippo Neri, my colleague Verdini contributes intelligently to our work. He says, in fact, that either you can or you can't. The rapporteur cannot deny the constitutional dictation behind this or that decision of the Constitutional Court. All the more so since, at a certain point, she connects Pezzopane, using Latin to the way Manzoni did not always like it, with reference to conversations, uses the expression: " in fraud law." Then I mean, in such a case, that this Latinorum is used "in fraud constitutionis," in fraud of that elementary right of "or you can or can't." And it is not the right to take away the person of Verdini, or any other Member of Parliament, from public opinion, but to take away his parliamentary functions. It is no coincidence that, even in these questions, we are dealing with matters on which the Constitution then gives it a function of inspection union, of questions and vice versa. So, for intellectual honesty, with respect to its own reconstruction, and remembering that here we are assessing the correctness or not of the request that comes from the judiciary, I believe that Senator Pezzopane's arguments are not convincing enough. Mr Verdini's seem to me rather heavy, and they have been made available to our work with a generous perspective, not general, and certainly not - as someone said before me gloomily - of defending a personal privilege. One thing is privileges, another thing is guarantees! Colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, do not always superimpose hatred for the privileges of that love for the guarantees of which our day of parliamentarians is made! [[Applause from the LAG, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u21	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u22	Mr President, this is an emblematic case - in my opinion - of how there is now a total and unacceptable overlap of roles between the judiciary and politics in our country. To deny this reality means to deny the greatest evidence. In fact, the request submitted by the judge for the preliminary hearing in Rome, in relation to the use of conversations and telephone communications in which Senator Verdini participated, contains all the elements necessary for us to be rejected. I should like to explain more clearly: this is a task which, at first instance, would have been of relevance to the election committee and, unfortunately - I say unfortunately - the order of stables prevailed over political membership. Even if only based on the content of the report proposed by Senator Pezzopane, it is quite clear that in the factual reconstruction, in the chronological reconstruction of the investigative activity, all logical inconsistencies are objectively revealed. The first element that has been highlighted in the request is that quantity. We are talking about 31 conversations, of which 29 are related to a single telephone user, over a period of more than 14 months, from 23 April 2008 to 6 July 2009. The other two intercepted calls, relating to August 2008, are considered, only those, random by the judge of the preliminary hearing (GUP). This request, therefore - it is said - is based on the smallness and the remarkable antecedence compared to the registration in the register of the suspects, that is parameters that have been completely denied in the case of the remaining 29 phone calls. It is a logical contradiction, evident and consequential. I say that because I have never received an answer in the Junta of the elections. We are talking - I would like to remind you - about an investigation which was born as an excerpt from an original investigation carried out by the Florence Public Prosecutor in the context of proceedings No 18.236 of 2007, subsequently transferred to the judicial authority of Rome for jurisdiction. The 29 telephone calls randomly - it is said - picked up are part of an activity in which more than 52,000 conversations have been intercepted - it is said. Also in this case it is justified the delay in asking for the subsequent authorization with the small number: two phone calls are few, 29 are few, maybe - I add - 100 are few. But what is the parameter that has been adopted? If we want to fully review the quantitative aspect, we should at least know it. How many calls are sent by Senator Verdini in this investigation facility? This question I asked in Junta, but I never got an answer. My question is simple: why are the 52,000 phone calls, including those 31, different - I wonder - than the 50,000 that came to the GIP of the court of Florence? Or are they always the same 50,000 we're talking about? Are there 31, 114, 145 phone calls? The answer was never given to me. Or perhaps, after having been forced to register Verdini in the register of suspects in an excerpt of inquiry then sent to Rome, the prosecutor of Florence continued for over a year to intercept him indirectly through the same interlocutor, in contempt of all parliamentary prerogatives? This is the knot that must be loosed, and not only. Verdini was also intercepted after being entered in the register of suspects: i.e. after 11 February 2009, he suffered further interceptions, which ended in 2009. This is really an contra legem thing. In our view, this is a debate based on political prejudice and, if that is the logic we want to follow, it means that technical, institutional work becomes useless, because it bends to logics that have nothing to do with law and democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u23	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u25	I give up my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u26	I communicate that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u29	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, Mr D'Ascola had already expressed himself authoritatively in the Council for Authorisations, precisely by applying the logic of respect for our Constitution and the fundamental principles. If anything the Constitution has written, of course in times when technology was less advanced, it is that it is sacred and inviolable the correspondence of every citizen and even of every parliamentarians, unless there is an authorization. Now, think if there had been an exchange of letters, rather than telephone calls, between Senator Verdini or any of us and a third person: here we would have found ourselves in the event that it is opened and read the correspondence not of the person who writes to the Senator, but of the Senator himself, in a continuous way, also following his registration in the register of suspects. We are, therefore, faced with a resounding violation of the constitutional principles, when there is the awareness of the judiciary, beyond the occasionality, which we will perhaps show in another case, and how - as I have already said - the rapporteur, Mr Casson, will later do. While it is evident that, if it is a random interception, the judgment will be different. In this case, however, there are all the elements to establish - with time, methods and registration in the register of suspects - that there is a clear violation of that constitutional principle which we, by voting against the rapporteur's opinion, want to protect and defend. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u32	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would just like to say that the whole of the Mixed Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u35	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we would like to thank Senator Verdini for his contribution to clarifying his position and his willingness to put himself back to the vote in this House on the proposals contained in the report. In the meantime, it will be a pleasure for us to ascertain the origin of the request for a secret vote, which seems to us not to go in the interests of Senator Verdini himself, who certainly has every interest in ensuring that his judicial affairs - on which, of course, we do not speak here - can be clarified and his extraneousness can be fully affirmed. However, it must be pointed out to all of us, my fellow senators, that we are talking about a colleague who, although so little is present in the proceedings of this House - if I am not mistaken, Senator Verdini has deigned us with his presence a couple of times since the legislature began. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - in his absence he is certainly immanent: we know, in fact, that he is very present in the work of this Parliament, for the valuable contribution he has made in drawing up the plans for institutional and constitutional reform of the Renzi Government, for which we also thank him. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Beyond the controversy and returning to the merit of the matter, we know very well that we are called not to express a judgment on judicial affairs - we have not even been as the Council of Immunity and we are not today as Senate of the Republic - but only to verify that there is no fumus persecutionis - I hope that my colleague Compagna does not want to talk to me about using Latin, in this case, in a Manzoni way - so that the actions of the judiciary, which today is asking for authorization to use telephone interceptions, can have a follow-up. Let us all remember that this kind of verification we in Junta have done so. We have joined the rapporteur's determinations. So, of course, already now, by announcing our vote in favour of this proposal, we are only obliged to remember very briefly that it is certainly in the interests of Senator Verdini that this authorisation should be granted to the judiciary, in this case to the GIP in Rome. In fact, with regard to the hateful crimes to which he is certainly foreign, ranging from corruption to the criminal association aimed at crimes of always corruptive type, illicit financing to parties, as well as facts of fraudulent bankruptcy (I make reference to all three determinations arrived in Junta), we wish him to come out clean from this affair. Frankly, speaking only of two phone calls, those following the registration of Senator Verdini's name in the register of suspects, the content does not leave any peace. In the first phone call of May 26, he talks with Mr. Fusi, who was then the target of the wiretap. We know that we do not need a Jammer phone in the Senate to be exempt: just do not have telephone contacts with people of morally doubtful origin. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, in that phone call, the first of the two phone calls, Senator Verdini and Mr. Fusi talked about the orders related to the reconstruction activities after the earthquake in Abruzzo. I do not want to add anything else, but the gravity of the accusations, from which Senator Verdini will certainly be able to resolve, will see our contribution, as a political group of the 5 Star Movement, in giving authorization to the use of these interceptions so that the truth is done and having previously established that by the judiciary, in accordance also with the pronouncements of the Constitutional Court of 2010, the criteria that have to do with the formal and substantial regularity of the use of the interceptions themselves have been respected. Our vote will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u38	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons why I should be voting against Mr Verdini, not on the specific issue, but on the fact that attention to constitutional principles should always be maintained, both when it comes to judicial matters and when it comes to issues of democracy. Nevertheless, I do not want to let myself go on this side but I want to express my concerns about the application of the rule which essentially calls into question the principle we are talking about: whether or not the Member can be intercepted. For a long time I have been reflecting on the need to dissolve this node definitively: that is, to maintain a system of serious immunity or to completely erase what today seems to me more a fiction than a serious immune prerogative. Despite the difficulty of affirming this principle in one way or another, today we have to discuss a specific case. Then, in this sense, by keeping that line that sees me deciding on this matter not on the basis of political deployment or membership of political organization, I think I must decide with my conscience, exclusively with my conscience, and with the need to affirm not only to myself, but to those who will look at our behaviour tomorrow and in the future, the need to give the current constitutional principle full implementation. There can be no repeated derogation. There may be random interception, limited in time and perhaps due to organisational deficiencies. However, there can be no derogation that is maintained over 14 months. There can be no derogation that is exercised in the course of 31 interceptions. In this sense, I am opposed to the proposal to authorise the use of interceptions, because I believe that here, which I consider to be the highest, the principle must be our driving beacon. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u41	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I will be very brief, considering that Senator Pezzopane's report is absolutely exhaustive in its arguments to clarify the issues we have dealt with. I would like to stress, however, that I did not share the value that was given to Senator Verdini's statement when he said that he was not interested in the outcome. I think it is right to say that here too. The same statement was made by Senator Verdini also before the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Senator Verdini simply wanted to say: Decide according to conscience, but first of all I have a quiet conscience and, therefore, I do not care much about the content of those interceptions. I believe that it is correct to say that in order to bring the debate back to the limits of the correctness of the subject we are dealing with. The other argument which - in my opinion - is, on the other hand, beyond the Latinum of Manzoni's memory which has been used (and which has already been mentioned), concerns the dividing line which, in my opinion, has been marked by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This helps to understand and justify the decision taken by the election committee, because there are clearly indicated the criteria which have been followed and which must be followed in such cases. For these reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal and therefore its acceptance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u44	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, it has been referred to several times by my colleagues, and also by Senator Verdini, the proper and historical meaning of Article 68 of the Constitution. In other interventions it was recalled that that own meaning, discussed for several days in the Constituent as the main foundation in defense of the democratic institute, was then updated with deep and learned discussions of doctrine and how the judge of the laws, with the judgment n. 390 of 2007, came to the rescue for the decision-making processes in question. The rapporteur - but this was a subject which was widely discussed in the Junta - makes reference to the judgment and, in particular, to the need that, when dealing with specific issues, we should discuss specifically the destination of the interception, trying to understand whether the interception itself has been carried out in fraud laws. Precisely in order to answer the two main questions posed by the judge of the laws, in the cases of the 31 interceptions and of the 2 interceptions and in the separate cases of the interceptions charged to Balducci and Fusi, it is necessary to understand whether the indications of the judge of the laws have been respected. It is precisely the arguments put forward by the rapporteur that make me stand up for the conviction that I - as I and other colleagues have done in the Junta - vote against the report by Senator Pezzopane, because the arguments put forward, as they contradict each other, do not solve the question of conviction beyond any reasonable doubt. The two arguments put forward by Senator Pezzopane contradict each other in that Balducci's interceptions are based on absolute occasionality due to recent knowledge, while Fusi is concerned with the directionality of the investigation. But this - as already noted by Senator Buemi - contradicts a defense that, with respect to the learned discussion, leads me to direct to the attention of my colleagues the popular saying "the language beats where the tooth hurts." In fact, the magistrate, in making the request, speaks of the smallness and, therefore, justifies the necessity of authorization with the smallness of the interceptions with respect to the large number. But here the magistrate, defending the request, tends to hide what is instead a procedural relevance. Mr President, you know that during the interceptions - I repeat, trying to draw the attention of all colleagues - there is a need for a judicial police officer who, at the end of each day, draws up a report with a summary of the phone calls that have taken place. Therefore, whether it is 50,000 or 100,000, it is the duty of the judicial police officer to sign the report every day. Therefore, it is not possible that the ambiguity has hidden from the magistrate the presence, among others, of interceptions charged to a parliamentarians. Whether these were 2 or 31 or 114, it is undoubtedly important that either the procedure has been evaded or the procedure has not been evaded will not be taken into account. This, on the basis of what is contained in judgment No 390 of 2007, points out that the interceptions were carried out in fraud laws. The discussion is necessary as a result of the judgment. But if there were not the same sentence, we would return to the main speech: is it possible to have a debate on such obvious circumvention, where one of the basic principles of democracy is denied by this House, which should itself be the defender of democracy, and violated by a proposal to the House that I did not share and that gave me some repulsion, why is it the contradiction of democracy itself? [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u45	Pursuant to Article 113 (2), I shall proceed to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Vote by secret ballot, president. I therefore refer to the secret ballot by electronic procedure of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to allow the use of wiretapping of telephone conversations by Senator Verdini, a Member at the time of the facts, sent by the judge for the preliminary hearing at the Court of Rome, in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him. I remember that the senators in favour will vote yes by pressing the green button, the senators against will vote no by pressing the red button. Those who want to abstain will express themselves accordingly by pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be orange for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u48	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that there is a vote in progress. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I tried to mention her before she intervened. I would just like to clarify the Presidency's assessment of the request for a secret vote, even if it is supported by the minimum number of signatures envisaged. In the meantime, we see that it concerns three documents, so three votes, so I would ask you how we will vote, whether it is secret or not, whether we will vote three times for three different documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That seems obvious to me. BUCCARELLA (M5S). So many times the evidence isn't so obvious... president. I would have said that. BUCCARELLA (M5S)... to many, and I am not referring to you, but in general, President. Even more interesting I think it is to know whether the assessment of the admissibility of the request has to do with paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of Article 113 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, since we have not had any contience. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Comma 4. She wanted the copy. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, we did, but we see no reference of any kind from the applicants. So, if the Presidency - as it seems - has already considered the request positively, since we are about to vote, I wonder if it is acceptable, because it lacks motivation, without prejudice to the free determination of the Presidency, of which we would be pleased to be involved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In practice there is a motivation for relationem, as you well know. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes. Is that paragraph 3 or 4, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Paragraph 4. BUCCARELLA (M5S). And to which article of the Constitution do we refer? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In Article 15. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Perfect, and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u49	After this stage has been completed, I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u50	The next item is the debate on Document IV No 2: Request for authorization for the use of interceptions of telephone conversations by Senator Denis Verdini, Mr Nicola Cosentino, MPs at the time of the facts, and Mr Marcello Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the facts, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, as well as Article 6 of Law No 140 of 20 June 2003, transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Rome, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against them (No 30547/10 RGNR - No 16607/10 RG GIP). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Denis Verdini and former Senator Marcello Dell'Utri, sent by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Rome, and to declare also the incompetence of the Senate with respect to former Member Nicola Cosentino with consequent return of the acts to the judicial authority. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pezzopane, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 April 2013, the judge of preliminary investigations at the Court of Rome sent to the Senate an application for authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Denis Verdini, Mr Nicola Cosentino, Members of the Court of Justice, and Mr Marcello Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the events. The Junta examined the application at its meetings on 24 September, 22 and 30 October, 20 November and 11 December 2013, 6, 18 and 25 February, 4 and 5 March 2014, listening to Mr Dell'Utri, Senator at the time of the events, at its meeting on 20 November 2013 and Senator Verdini at its meeting on 11 December 2013. On 5 November 2013, former Senator Dell'Utri deposited a memoir at the offices of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. The request for authorisation under consideration concerns 123 telephone conversations recorded during 2009. Senator Verdini is intercepted in 53 phone calls, while the other 70 are related to the former Senator Dell'Utri. The two senators, together with other defendants, would be investigated for having established, organized and directed an association for criminals, aimed at carrying out an indeterminate series of crimes of corruption, office abuse, illicit financing, defamation and private violence. In addition, according to the judge for preliminary investigations, Senator Verdini and former Senator Dell'Utri, together with then deputy Nicola Cosentino, would have had their weight in political and external relations that assume function to achieve illicit projects. The association would have supported structures to organize congresses, with the aim of strengthening the network of contacts to be used. The heads of attribution of the request for referral to court are attributed to various fronts on which the group would have operated with the aim of pursuing its own interests. The second strand concerns attempts by some co-defendants to bring the judges of the Constitutional Court closer to the constitutional judgment on Law No. 124 of 2008 on the suspension of criminal proceedings against the high offices of the State. This activity was connected with the attempt to obtain from the party, in return, the candidacy of Nicola Cosentino to president of the Campania Region. The order then reconstructs the case concerning the defamation campaign against Mr Caldoro, candidate for president of the Campania Region, in order to promote Cosentino's candidacy. Another front of the group's activities is interference with members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. A further front is that concerning the judgment on the exclusion of the list "For Lombardy" from the electoral competition for the 2008 regional elections. Finally, the order focuses on the accusations of criminal association referred to in Article 416 of the Criminal Code and of secret association referred to in Article 1 of Law No 17 of 1982. According to the prosecutor, the defendants, including Senator Verdini and Exsenator Dell'Utri, would act as a veritable group of occult power. It should be noted that at the meeting of the Council on 26 June 2013 with reference to Document IV, No. 2, it was agreed to begin the examination of this act at a later stage, in order to enable the rapporteurs in the two branches of Parliament to find an interpretative solution. At the meeting of 24 September 2013, the preliminary presentation of criminal offences by me, the rapporteur for the measure, was held. At its meeting on 22 October 2013, the Junta, awaiting the identification of a shared solution for the division of competences with regard to Senator Verdini, had in the meantime proceeded to examine the position of former Senator Dell'Utri. In the days following the discovery of a solution shared by the two branches of Parliament had allowed the Junta to decide, on 30 October 2013, the fixing of a deadline for the presentation of any written statements by Senator Verdini. On November 5, 2013, former Senator Dell'Utri had deposited a defensive memory. At its meeting on 20 November 2013, the Council held the hearing. In the memory deposited by former Senator Dell'Utri on November 5, 2013, a series of arguments were made to support the non-susistence in the case of the requirement of chance of interception. The judgment of the Court of Cassation No 34244 of 2010 in which the Court, on appeal by one of the co-defendants in the criminal proceedings in question (Mr. Carboni), annuls the order of 15 July 2010 of the Court of Liberty, n. 2104, confirming the order of custody in prison issued by the judge for preliminary investigations against Flavio Carboni and Pasquale Lombardi. As regards the defensive arguments expressed by Senator Verdini during the hearing held on 11 December 2013, it should be noted that the audit claimed that the interceptions in question are not configurable as random, illustrating the specific reasons underlying this thesis. Among other things, Senator Verdini has found that the investigative bodies have carried out also a stakeout at their home - corroborated by special photographic documentation collected from the judicial police - from which it would be evident (according to Verdini's opinion) the subsistence of an investigative activity revolt and oriented towards own. However, the analysis of the documents in possession of the Junta shows that during the preliminary investigations carried out by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome were carried out, as well as telephone and environmental interception activities, also observation, control and follow-up activities. With regard to the lines of investigation in which Senator Verdini is most involved, there have been two judicial police records relating to stakeouts carried out near Palazzo Pecci-Blunt in via dell'Ara Coeli (in the two reports it is not specified that it is the home of Senator Verdini) and both carried out with the aim of documenting the meetings of Flavio Carboni with others. The documentation does not reveal any symptomatic elements of a change in the direction of the survey, since the tailing in question was directed exclusively towards Carboni. As can be seen from the reports of the Operations Department - Carabinieri Investigative Unit a stakeout took place on October 1, 2009 at 14.30 and is reported twice among the annexes to the information of the Carabinieri concerning the investigations in question: once in reference to the line n. 2 "Lodo Alfano" and once in reference to the line n. 5.2 "Suspicious financial transactions related to the wind turbine operation" It documents the arrival of Carboni and two other men, then identified as Arcangelo Martino and Pasquale Lombardi. The other stakeout took place on 3 February 2010 at 8.50 a.m. and is reported in relation to the trolley 5.1 The wind turbine operation is referred to as Annex 271. It documents the arrival of only Carboni. Turning now to the examination of the profiles inherent to the nature of the interceptions in question, it must be pointed out in advance that the Constitutional Court in judgment n. 390 of 2007 followed an approach whereby the Chamber to which a request for authorisation is addressed must first verify what is the direction of the act of investigation in question, i.e. whether the same is addressed on the teleological-functional plane only to third parties recipients of the interceptions or, vice versa, whether it is aimed at capturing, in fraud laws, circumstantial elements charged to the Member by subjection to the control of third party telephone users. The matrix of this issue should be seen in the context of the 1993 amendment to Article 68 of the Constitution. In particular, the functional parameter of the direction of the investigative act, on which, as mentioned above, the Court focuses its attention in judgment No 390 of 2007, presupposes that the mere circumstance of the communication between the third party and the Member of Parliament is not sufficient to result in the suspension of the collection activities and the consequent request for prior authorisation to the Chamber. Nor is it sufficient for any circumstantial framework to have a picture that would change the objective of the investigation and consequently the function of the interception. A different interpretation would conflict with the guidelines set out in the Constitutional Court on this subject and would produce paradoxical effects in practice. There is, of course, a different case of direct interceptions (i.e. on Members), in which the protection that the constitutional order provides presupposes the need for prior authorisation. All this in general, it is evident that in the order of 26 July 2012, the judge for preliminary investigations finds concretely regarding the interceptions of Senator Verdini: In fact, only the following data emerge from a rational reading and analysis, according to an ex ante judgment, of these interviews and related information (...): the knowledge of Carboni with the members of parliament Verdini and Dell'Utri, some telephone calls between these subjects, a total of a dozen in three months, which indicate yes their interest in some economic initiatives undertaken by Carboni, but with respect to which the meaty and completely generic references contained in the talks certainly did not highlight, then, aspects of illiceity in the behaviours held by Carboni. In this regard, the judge clarified that the support given by Senator Verdini to Carboni in the field of wind energy or in relation to Farris' candidacy as director of ARPA Sardegna was then consistent with the role of entrepreneur. He also pointed out that Senator Verdini's first evidence of rehearsal was deducted on 13 March 2010 from a phone call intercepted between Cappellacci and Piga. The judicial authority also refutes the defensive argument, according to which a change of objectives should be drawn from the information of 30 July 2009, in which reference was made to the fact that Carboni, for the realization of wind plants in Sardinia, makes use of methods of dubious nature. In relation to this information, the judicial authority's view is consistent, according to which the absolutely generic terms with which the information itself is formulated preclude the possibility of drawing valuable information on illegal conduct that can be attributed to Verdini and Dell'Utri. Only elements collected in the following period (and in particular related to the information of 26 October 2009 and 2 November 2009) have allowed the establishment of financial relations between Carboni and Verdini. In the course of the discussion it was found that some interceptions refer to a national policy intervention. This would prove - according to the argument put forward in the debate - that the judicial authority would have noticed the involvement in the telephone conversations of a Member of Parliament, but that opinion is not acceptable. In this regard, it is considered appropriate to reiterate the functionalist approach outlined by the Constitutional Court in the many cases cited in judgment No 390 of 2007, in the same way that mere knowledge by the judicial authority of the fact that the third party intercepts with a Member of Parliament to determine the illegality of the interception is not sufficient; instead, the investigation should be specifically directed against the Member of Parliament. The distinction between interceptions on legitimate third party users and unlawful interceptions is constituted by the direction of the investigation act and not by the mere knowledge of the judicial authority of the conversation between the third party and a parliamentarians. As far as former Senator Dell'Utri is concerned, it is evident that the interceptions made on utilities used at Carboni were all carried out in a precise time frame (between 26 June 2009 and 9 February 2010). There is then only one interview between Dell'Utri and Lombardi, in which the outcome of the decision of the Consulta on the so-called Alfano praise is communicated. Even for Dell'Utri, the judicial authority points out that "the tenor of the talks intercepted with the parliamentarians did not then profiling conduct worthy of consideration from a criminal point of view against the same ". The examination of the contents of the intercepts reveals the political nature of Carboni's interlocation with Dell'Utri, which at the time did not reveal any profile of illice, in the behaviour of the parliamentarians for the political support to the appointment of Farris, or for the information given by him to his friend Carboni on the crisis package approved by the Senate. Only the elements that emerged subsequently and assessed together in the final disclosure of 18 June 2010 revealed the accusatory hypothesis inherent in the contested associative case. Another important element to be assessed is the need for the current investigation act. As the Constitutional Court has clarified in judgment n. 188 of 2010, the Chamber must be able to observe, from the examination of the request (and of any annexes), that they exist is the requirement, so to speak, "negative" of the absence of any persecutory or instrumental intent of the request, and that, so to speak, "positive" is. The Court therefore does not assign to the Chamber a power to review data already evaluated by the judicial authority, but only the power to find, through the analysis of the reasoning of the act, the non-implausibility of the data from the point of view of necessity. All this said, it should be noted that the former Senator Dell'Utri in written memory does not dispute the existence of the requirement of necessity of the act. This fact does not, however, exempt the rapporteur from proceeding automatically to the confirmation of the presence or otherwise of this element. In this regard, from the reading of the acts emerges clearly the probative value that the investigative body attaches to the conversations intercepted in which the former Senator Dell'Utri figures, waited that the same tend to corroborate the role that such accused had in the context of the association evidenced to Chapter A) of the attribution, as well as to prove the weight of the same in the external political relations that - according to the the thesis of the accusation - are functional to the attainment of the plans and the illegal activities debited. The requirement of necessity also appears to be found for Senator Verdini, considering the relevance of the interceptions to the disputed cases, highlighted consistently and correctly in the context of the motivation by the judicial authority. In thanking the entire Assembly for the elections and parliamentary immunity and also in thanking the technical structure that supported us in this complex and laborious work, I inform you that the Junta approved the proposal to the Assembly to grant authorization to the use of wiretapping of telephone conversations by Senator Denis Verdini and former Senator Dell'Utri and to declare also the incompetence of the Senate with respect to the former deputy Cosentino with consequent return of the acts to the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u52	I greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Technical Institute of Industry (Ettore Majorana) in Avezzano (L'Aquila). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u53	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u54	Mr President, since the beginning of this afternoon's debate on the authorisation that this Senate should grant, I have heard of the wider systems. I have heard of judgments of the Constitutional Court, moreover, from legal practitioners such as Senator Buccarella, but, specifically, the rapporteur, Mrs Pezzopane, who has just resigned her conclusions, I intend to ask a simple question which I asked myself after having read, albeit with sufficient superficiality, the acts that have been made available to us by the Junta. Well, rapporteur for this procedure, it has been ruled out that Senator Verdini was the subject of the judicial authority's attention because, if that had been the case, it would obviously have been illegal investigative activity, as a representative of Parliament had been sent. But it is likely, as the rapporteur herself mentioned, that there has been a stakeout, which is different from stalking. If Carboni was followed and came to Verdini's house, it's an account, but if you talk about stakeout under Senator Verdini's house, the speech is different. Moreover, even in a treacherous way, the minutes of the police officers in charge of the investigations conceal the fact that Senator Verdini lived in that street and in that palace, and of course before Senator Verdini himself was entered in the register of suspects. It is enough, therefore, just to verify that, before Senator Verdini was entered in the register of suspects, a magistrate placed a stake-out under the house of Senator Verdini and that in the minutes the police did not specify that the placement was in that date, under the house of Senator Verdini, in order to assert - and I say this - that there has been a dishonest attitude in the field of the functions performed by the policemen and the investigative magistrate. I am 63 years old and I have lived my life under the banner of legality: Senator Palma teases me about this, telling me that I have legality in DNA. I have always had fair behavior from the point of view of legality, and this legality I demand from everyone, especially from politics. In this respect, I wonder how it is possible that, on such sensitive matters, when a centre-right parliamentarians are under the spotlight and in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities there is a centre-right majority not to be authorized, and we are acting in the same way for a centre-left parliamentarians when there is a centre-left majority in the junta. It is a political body, which does not decide on the basis of acts, but of political membership, and this mortifies the Italian Parliament and democracy. Beyond politics, however, I demand intellectual honesty as a lawyer, as a citizen and I demand it from the judge. With great serenity I feel like saying that a judge who denies, or who fails to specify anyway, that that apology was intended to pay attention to Senator Verdini is not the judge I imagine to have in my country, which must still remain a rule of law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u55	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u56	Mr President, since there are also many citizens who have the legality of DNA, certainly the vast majority of those who are outside these Palaces and who we very modestly try to represent, we share the concerns of Senator Falanga. However, if he had been able to take part in the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, he would certainly be reassured that the formal and substantive legitimacy of the question posed was largely analysed. Moreover, all the documentation - not only, therefore, the report of Senator Pezzopane - is to some extent also available to him, so that his legitimate fear of a man of law about the fact that the judiciary or part of it has crossed his duties can be escaped, thus being able to gain serenity over the work of the Junta. I would like once again to refer to the same concepts that I referred to in my previous speech, which I hope Senator Verdini will also embrace. In this case too, the serious hypothesis of crime (those hypothesized, of course, because everything is still in itinerant) pushes to the point of suggesting a certain type of influence and approach by the alleged association to delinquere even judges of the Constitutional Court and, even, interference with members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Just to mention this kind of crime hypothesis that Senator Verdini could have contributed, just that, sets out a concern and the seriousness of a probative picture. I repeat that, remaining in the role that belongs to us here, by virtue of the analysis and deepening that we have carried out extensively in Junta, also with the hearing of Senator Verdini, who has had, also in this political forum, all the possibilities to explain his thought (as he has done in this Chamber also rightly today) and that he is also strong in the technical defence that will be able to help him in criminal proceedings, we hope that he too will wish to vote in favour, albeit secret, of this documentation relating to interceptions to be considered usable by the judicial authorities and the Court of Rome. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u57	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u58	Mr President, I must first say, not to deny Senator Buccarella, that I express all my embarrassment at taking the floor on this occasion. We must decide on a matter without any knowledge of the papers that have been sent by the judicial authority, because the papers can only be consulted by the members of the Junta. That is to say that our decision must be made and adopted on the basis of the report that has just been read to us by Senator Pezzopane. As far as it is concerned, of course, I can imagine that there are no gaps, but this in an absolutely trustworthy attitude. I wonder, Mr President, Senators, whether, with regard to this matter or to other events, which also call upon the Houses of Parliament to decide under Article 68 of the Constitution, it is even more tolerable that senators should decide on issues relating to the fundamental rights of senator citizens without knowing the cards. Senator Buccarella, the papers can be consulted, but not by Senator Falanga, but only and exclusively by the members of the Junta. [[Senator Buccarella's comments.]] That is, of course, to say that we must rely on the ability and professionalism of those who reduce paper material to synthesis. Having said that, Mr President, Senators, we do not have to decide here whether or not Senator Verdini is involved in a trial and whether or not these elements are sufficient to impose a conviction, or, if they are inappropriate, they must lead to an acquittal. We, Senators, are here discussing a fundamental principle that governs the structure of our institutions. Basically, it is the respect, by the judicial authority, of those who are considered, from our constituent Fathers, the guarantees, and not the privileges, of the senators. So what we need to verify is whether in the investigative activity that took place on those events that touched and involved Senator Verdini have respected the parameters indicated by our Constitution and further specified, as Senator Pezzopane recalled, by the Constitutional Court. In summary, the Constitutional Court expresses two concepts: the direction of the act, obviously not being able to tolerate in the absence of respect for the various guarentigies a direct investigative act against the parliamentarians and the occasionality of the act itself. On this point, the Constitutional Court states: "In such a case" - precisely, the "occasional" interceptions - "there is no doubt that the qualification of interception as random requires a particularly careful verification." Then, with a little patience and entrusting my words to your attention, I would like to check with you whether it was occasional or, as the Constitutional Court says, a clever, elusive attitude of healing. Let us begin by saying the first thing, which is perhaps the most important and which probably did not emerge because of the fragmentation of demands. We have just voted for permission to intercept in another case with reference to 31 interceptions. Now we have to decide on 56 other interceptions that occurred all in the same period (more or less, 2009) but, attention, both picked up by the same investigative body: the Carabinieri operating department. So let me say the first thing: can we really consider the interception of 31 or 56, not more occasional, but the interception of 100 phone calls by the same investigative body? We really should have a trusty attitude to believe that. We can have it, and without admitting it, we can move on. Senator Falanga reminded us of something important, namely that in 2009, precisely in October 2009, due to the receptions of communications, a tailing and investigation of Flavio Carboni developed. This is the thesis that substantially leads Flavio Carboni near the palace where Verdini's location is located. It's October 1st, 2009. At the time, it may be worth remembering, Senator Verdini was a national coordinator of the party and, as such, only as such, and like the other political secretaries he had a escort or security service and his home was well known to law enforcement. Then, to keep quiet of the precedent, I can say that in October 2009 the investigation no longer touch Senator Verdini, it is no longer occasional: from that moment on it begins to take in very clear terms its direction. And since I can't find it from the cards, Senator Pezzopane, I'm really curious to know how many phone intercepts are "casual" after 1 October 2009, i.e. they are subsequent to the moment when, according to what little we are given to understand from the report, Senator Verdini makes his appearance absolutely not unforgettable in the context of the procedure. How do we now authorize those 56 interceptions, knowing that some of them - few or many, I don't know - may have been after October 2009? And again, Mr President and Senators, with regard to the occasional and random nature of the investigation, reading the report, we learn that on 13 March 2010 there came further support to what has already emerged, namely essentially the question of wind turbines (related to Cappellacci and Sardinia), the same same as that which had led the ROS to carry out the deployment in October 2009. But then there is no one who does not realize that we are in the presence of a direct and targeted investigation also towards Senator Verdini, which is clearly destined to overwhelm the issue of interceptions, because it identifies, without any issue of denial, the non chance of the same. I tell you more, in order to conclude without abusing anyone's patience, and I address in particular to Senator Pezzopane, as a friend, as rapporteur: but how is it possible to write that only on June 18, 2010, because of an information of the Carabinieri, have emerged the elements at the expense of Senator Verdini? Senator Pezzopane, do you want to explain to us that information, which is normally the final act of a long course of investigation? Have the complacency and goodness to listen to someone like me, who - according to his thought - does not know what he says: that information of 18 June 2010 is the final act of investigations. Those who, like me and many others in this House, are familiar with judicial matters know very well that the final disclosure, being the summary and summary of all the investigations developed, in this case since the beginning of 2009, identifies a whole series of elements that cannot be detected at the date of the report's drafting. This is equivalent to saying - since it is not possible otherwise, for the reasons already stated - that the same date of the information, June 18, 2010, seriously suggests that those elements date back in time and that only on that date have been realized and formalized, thus giving rise to the activation of the investigation against Senator Verdini, who in the meantime, however, was subject to investigation. What do I mean by that? It is not difficult to understand that what we need to establish here, regardless of our sympathies or antipathy, is not whether or not Senator Verdini is reached by clues, evidence or anything else. It's not a problem for us. However, we must determine whether there is any reason to consider - as the Constitutional Court pointed out, with careful care - that an inquiry into Senator Verdini has developed in elusive terms of the law. Gentlemen Senators, it seems to me that those few things that I have been able to read in Senator Pezzopane's report lead us to this conclusion. You can easily vote in favour of permission to use Senator Verdini's wiretapping: most likely some of you will enjoy it, but when you vote on the basis of these elements in favour of this authorisation, you basically take away the meaning of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u59	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u60	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u61	I give up my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u62	I note that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators. This request may concern only the positions of Senator Denis Verdini and former Senator Marcello Dell'Utri and not the declaration of incompetence of the Senate with respect to former Member Nicola Cosentino. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u65	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to remind you of what we are talking about: we are talking about very serious and very serious crimes, we are talking about an association of criminals aimed at carrying out an indeterminate series of crimes of corruption, abuse of office, illegal financing, defamation and private violence; an association also characterized by the secrecy of purposes, activity and composition, aimed even at hitting internal political opponents, as the candidate Caldoro was at the time. Therefore, let us make the following remarks: there is that randomness which, according to the Constitutional Court, is the element that conditions the usability of the interceptions on the part of parliamentarians. You know well - the subject has already been discussed in the debate in Junta - that there are tens of thousands of interceptions that are then examined; after their computer apprehension, we find out who they are. While there are, of course, those of parliamentarians who were not intercepted, but were randomly intercepted when they called a subject who was being investigated, in number even in this limited case. The documentation speaks of 50,000 interceptions, a large number of phone calls; they are people who call all day, with several utilities, so it is not strange the number. Within this number, there are few dozen interceptions that are relevant. For the cases in question, moreover, in the assumption that the same Dell'Utri, heard in Junta, has quietly admitted not to feel a persecuted by the investigations, and to have therefore no problem to that the use of the intercepts is authorized (there are the minutes of the Junta in this regard), I declare the favorable vote of the Movement 5 Stars to the use of these intercepts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u68	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Verdini said well: either you can or you can't. Article 68 of the Constitution is very clear, the constituents could not have written it in a more radical and total way: one cannot proceed to intercept communications or correspondence without the permission of the House of Membership. It couldn't have been written more clearly. Then there comes interpretations, but even these interpretations cannot change what the Constitution establishes, even if they come from the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court has never envisaged criteria such as the paradoxical ones that we have heard here, according to which 30 or 50 interceptions of calls from a Member of Parliament are fine, since the total number is much greater. At that point, even a thousand wiretappings of a Member of Parliament are good enough to do a million wiretappings. In other words, as President Nitto Palma just said, Article 68 of the Constitution is deleted. Unfortunately, it is not even so: it is not deleted, because it remains. So what has not been applied to Senator Verdini, neither at the stage of the investigation, nor in this House (I am referring to the previous vote), may well have been applied without us even knowing it to others, even in the same investigation. In fact, someone may have said that there was a call to the senator or to that Member and that, since Article 68 of the Constitution speaks clearly, even in the light of the judgment No 114 of 2010 of the Constitutional Court, those interceptions must be removed and cannot be transcribed. In this way, we would not even have any news of this act. Just as we would not have heard if they had applied the Constitution in the case of Senator Verdini. They didn't and the case came to us, because we should be sure about that. I remember, although it should not be necessary to do so (but unfortunately the times are such that it is appropriate to do so), that Rule 68 does not provide for privileges for Members of Parliament. It provides for prerogatives that are linked to their role, just as for a magistrate the possibility of conducting investigations and requesting interceptions (which none of us, as parliamentarians, and no ordinary citizen could do) is not a privilege of the magistrate, but it is a tool that is given to him to do his job. The same goes for this: it is not a privilege, but it is a prerogative to protect the parliamentarians as an expression of democracy. If this protection ceases, and it only ceases for someone, then we have exactly the opposite, unfortunately. This too said Senator Verdini: if you do not like this rule, then someone has the courage to delete it. We would be the only democratic country without these protections for parliamentarians, but at least it would be a clear rule, which is not true for anyone. There is always the discretion of those who conduct the investigations, for goodness sake, but at least no hand could say to stop intercepting that user because it corresponds to a parliamentarians. You couldn't do that for Senator Verdini and you couldn't do it for anyone else. Instead, for Senator Verdini you can do it and for someone else you can't do it. So we have exactly the opposite of a guarantee: we have the arbitration. And arbitrariness is exactly what democracy and the rule of law were born to abolish. The vote is therefore not about a privilege and, Senator Giarrusso, it has absolutely nothing to do with the gravity or not of the accusations to which the intercepted casually meets. The Constitution does not say that authorisation is necessary if it is a recent crime, and if it is a serious crime it is not necessary. The Constitution is very clear; whoever wrote that article wrote it very clearly. And we should remember the need to write clear things, at a time when we are going to reform - hopefully to improve it - the Constitution. Above all, we should remember that once an article in the Constitution or an article in the law exists, we must respect it and not let it become an instrument of will. That is why the Forza Italia Group will vote against the Junta's decision to defend this principle, which is fundamental to democracy and the rule of law. Those who are against democracy and are against the rule of law must instead feel obliged to vote in favour of this act, precisely by will. The Constitution says one thing and we make you say another. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u69	Pursuant to Article 113 (2), I shall proceed to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Vote by secret ballot, president. I therefore refer to the secret ballot, by electronic procedure, of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization for the use of wiretapping of telephone conversations by Senator Denis Verdini and former Senator Marcello Dell'Utri, sent by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Rome. I remember once again that the senators in favour will vote yes by pressing the green button, the opposing senators will vote no by pressing the red button. Those who want to abstain will express themselves accordingly by pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be orange for everyone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote]] I would like to point out that, by means of electronic procedure, a roll-call vote of the proposal, adopted by a majority of the Council, was to declare the Senate's incompetence with the former Member, Nicola Cosentino, with the result that the acts were returned to the judicial authority. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u70	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 3, which contains: Request for authorization to execute the decree of preemptive seizure of assets for equivalent issued by the Judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Palermo against Senator Francesco Scoma in the context of criminal proceedings n. 20636/12 RGNR, n. 2388/13 RG GIP pending also against him, following the postponement of Doc. IV, No. 3, decided at the Conference of Leaders on 16 January 2014. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. The Giunta has decided to confirm in full the previous report submitted to the Shareholders' Meeting on 12 December 2013 - referred to in Doc. IV, No 3-A - and therefore to propose the return of the documents to the judicial authority in order not to proceed, not with regard to the request for authorisation in question in this case attributable to the prerogatives referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u71	Mr President, I read the report because it seems to me that the reason for the request is clear from your speech and it is clear how the Junta will return the documents to the judicial authority by declaring itself incompetent on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u72	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been tabled by Senators Alberti Casellati and Malan. I call Senator Malan to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u73	Mr President, the procedure involves a seizure in the context of an investigation involving, among others, Senator Scoma, who was summoned for a day to be defined in the course of the next week, probably for the filing of the investigations. I propose to the House that we postpone the examination of this document by a couple of weeks, which does nothing to remove the validity of the request, for those who consider that they do not actually give rise to this request. In fact, if we consider that we do not intervene, it is clearly an authorization for the judicial authority to proceed to this seizure. If storage does not take place in the course of next week, there really is no problem in reviewing the situation in two weeks' time and examining it in the sense that the majority will consider it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u74	The request you're referring to is a filing request? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's supposed to happen next week. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u75	I get it. In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per Group may speak for no more than 10 minutes, provided that someone wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u78	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, the request is dated 19 June 2013: we are talking about almost a year ago. Usually a citizen who sees a file of Equitalia arrive, and then the consequent seizure, does not have all this time to be able to oppose and try to slow down a possible preventive seizure. We are talking about a pre-emptive seizure of EUR 26,000, which means that a senator's allowance is two months old: we are not talking about a very high figure. If, as my colleague Mr Malan says, the judge has decided to consider, presumably - because they are all presumptuous - a filing, in the face of our authorization (more than an authorization, it is a proposal not to proceed because Article 68 of the Constitution is not applicable in this particular case), if he considers that he has to dismiss it, I imagine that he will not proceed to the seizure. If he does not have to file, he will proceed to the seizure. We must decide regardless, in my opinion and in our opinion, of the decision the judge will take. Ours is a decision on a request; the request is made and it makes no sense to wait for a possible filing, because at that point what decision will we make according to the judge's decision? What's changing? However, we must always express ourselves on the request for preventive seizure, and the rapporteur's report contains not so much an affirmative or negative answer, but a proposal not to proceed because the case of preventive seizure by equivalent does not fall within the prerogatives laid down in Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u79	I put to the vote the suspensive question, raised by Senators Alberti Casellati and Malan. It's not approved. Since no one is asking to speak in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u82	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I shall make a brief explanation of vote, partly because I have already made a few points. It was on June 19, 2013 when the judge for the preliminary investigations of the court of Palermo asked this Senate for authorization to execute the decree of preemptive seizure of assets for equivalent to Senator Francesco Scoma for about 26,000 euros. The Junta, and today the Assembly of the Senate, has to discuss and deepen the case in order to arrive at the end of a proposal of no place to proceed, believing that this type of seizure does not fall within the constitutional protection of the parliamentarians, and this after almost a year from the request. Let's tell those citizens who see Equitalia folders coming and that, if they don't pay immediately, you see assets seized for amounts that go well beyond the two monthly salary as they often get to people who don't have a salary. We have discussed for almost a year quoting precedents, judgments and practices to assess whether it is possible to extend, through the hermeneutic instrument of analogy, the prerogative in question, in order to include also the preventive seizure by equivalent, for example extending the concept of domicile to include within the same bank account. Well, I repeat: if we say to a citizen who receives a seizure order, perhaps following a tax collector's file Equitalia, to whom the current account or pension is frozen, that while there is nothing to do for him, for the parliamentarians it is necessary to evaluate the extension of the domicile also to the bank account through the hermeneutic instrument of analogy, I leave to you imagine what answer could give you and what destination could recommend for the hermeneutic instrument of analogy. I'll leave it to your imagination. Article 68 of the Constitution provides that for interceptions, seizures and searches the prior authorization of the competent Chamber is required. These are investigative, precautionary instruments that are rendered useless. How can one suppose that these instruments can be useful for investigative purposes if they must first pass to the examination of a year of public examination? Do you think that the intercept, when it knows it, will use the phone to say things that can compromise it? Do you think that if the suspect is informed of a possible search, he won't have all the time to clean up the premises? Do you think that if the suspect is aware of a possible seizure on his behalf, he will make available the assets to be seized? Or will you empty the bank account? I can't predict what Senator Scoma's behavior will be, but it would be highly conceivable for the suspect to cancel his deposit at his current account in order to avoid any seizure. In particular, the Council's proposal, which provides for no place to proceed because of the inapplicability of the prerogatives referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution, with all the concerns already raised regarding these safeguards, we will still vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u85	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to fill in some gaps caused by pure ignorance. [[Applause from Senator Crimes]] the difference between a precautionary measure, such as a seizure, and the execution of a debitory folder, which already presupposes the establishment of a right of credit by third parties. These examples compared by Senator Crimes between Senator Scoma and the citizen... CRIMI (M5S). Go explain it to the citizens! FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Apart from the fact, Senator Crimes, that even against the debit file you can propose opposition and ask the judge for the eventual suspension of the execution itself. So, when we speak, let us first try to look at the scientific issues that we are dealing with. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Otherwise, we do a populism that serves television and the media in order to be able to say that that political force protects the citizen and attacks the caste. That's not true. That political force, which I respect, when it says these things, qualifies itself as ignorant in this matter. The rapporteur's conclusions are, in my opinion, acceptable: it is acceptable that we should not proceed, because this is not a matter for our possible examination, and therefore it will be the judge of the preliminary investigations to assess whether a precautionary measure of EUR 26,000, after eight months, still has the topical nature that must have a precautionary measure. Not to mention - but this will be the subject of Senator Scoma's defense - the existence of the periculum in mora, although required in the decision on a precautionary measure. There is the presumption that you can lose the credit guarantee or, however, the possibility of attacking the good for 26,000 euros only. I wanted to make this clarification because I am political by chance and lawyer by passion, and often passion gives me the need to intervene. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u88	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to declare my vote in favour of the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity and, at the same time, to draw the attention of my colleague, Mr Crimes, to the fact that one of the reasons why we took time was because we could not understand the reason why the authorisation had been requested. When a magistrate asks the parliamentary body for permission, it is a question of understanding the reason. In our view, as was apparent in the debate and in the opinion, there was no reason. Faced with a magistrate who poses questions, I believe that deepening is necessary, even if then the conclusion can also be taken for granted. On the other hand, Mr Crimes, let us always return to the question of departure: are we in favour of maintaining constitutional safeguards against Members of Parliament? Yes or no? At this moment, these healings, although reduced, exist, and the law applies to all: magistrates, parliamentarians and even public opinion. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u91	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u92	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to propose that the documents be returned to the judicial authority of Palermo in order not to proceed, not with regard to the request for authorisation in question, which is attributable in particular to the prerogatives set out in Article 68 of the Constitution. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on Document IV, No 4, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of telephone conversations by Senator Denis Verdini, a Member of the Court of First Instance, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, and Article 6 of Law No 140 of 20 June 2003, transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Florence in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him (No 14867/08 RGNR - No 1460/09 RG GIP). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to accept the request for authorization to use telephone interceptions made against Senator Verdini, deputy at the time of the events, transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Florence, waiting for the random nature of the same. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Casson, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u94	Mr President, I refer to the extensive and detailed written and written report - and therefore to the acts of this Senate - which, in view of the delicacy of the case, I will try to summarize, taking into account the defensive assumption of Senator Verdini himself. This request was made by the judge for preliminary investigations of Florence on 22 May 2013 and referred to the Assembly for Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on 22 November 2013. On the basis of the documentation received, the Junta examined the application during six sessions and also heard Senator Verdini at his request. From a historical point of view, the request for authorisation in question should have preceded the two requests that we have dealt with just now (rapporteur Mrs Pezzopane), because the case as a whole stems precisely from investigations which were carried out from the beginning by the judicial authority of Florence. In the course of these investigations, which began in 2008, the Florence Public Prosecutor, who investigated a series of crimes of which I will say and which related to the activities of the Florentine Cooperative Credit, at a certain point constitutes different criminal cases relating to the territory of Rome and, therefore, having to transmit the acts to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, in February 2009 arranges the registration in the register of the suspects of Senator Verdini for the crime of corruption, a matter of which my colleague Pezzopane has already given weight and of which we discussed a short while ago. On the other hand, the original story continues autonomously with the judicial authority of Florence, with the subject of the investigation of which it was said. In that context, a series of telephone interceptions are first carried out, arranged by the Florence judicial authority, which amount to over 50,000. The numbers are important precisely to define the issue and to explain how the telephone conversations in which Senator Verdini's presences have emerged are absolutely random and extremely limited as quantity and as time. The court's request refers essentially to some 114 telephone conversations recorded between March 2008 and December 2009, in the context of a procedure that - I repeat - referred to more than 50,000 telephone conversations. I remember that the first registration in the register of suspects of the then Congressman Verdini dates back to February 2009, but it had been an instrumental inscription for the transmission of the documents of the file to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Rome, for a case of crime all at all different. Instead, the registration in the register of suspects of the Member and then Senator Verdini for criminal cases related to criminal proceedings concerning the Florentine Cooperative Credit dates back to July 12, 2010. This investigation will end with the request for referral to judgment of 7 March 2013. Therefore, the interceptions that concern the judicial authority of Florence are all prior to this inscription, relating to that criminal proceedings. At the end of the investigations, which were extremely complex, since they involved crimes of a documentary, commercial and financial nature, in the request of the attorney of Florence, 12 hypotheses of crime for serious facts have been summarized, such as that of association with criminals referred to in article 416 of the penal code, constituted in order to commit several crimes of misappropriation of money to the detriment of the Florentine Cooperative Credit. In addition, there is talk of fraudulent bankruptcy, reference is made to the combined provisions of Articles 237 and 223, second paragraph, No 1), in relation to Articles 2621 of the Civil Code, Royal Decree 267 of 1942, which concern the aid to the failure of the said bank, through the presentation in the balance sheet of material facts not corresponding to the truth, with the intention of misleading members and the public and in order to achieve an unjust profit. Other offences refer to the exposure of false information in the prospectus of the Florentine Cooperative Credit relating to the offer to the public of obligations of certain financial products. In addition, the non-communication of the conflict of interest relating to own-account transactions or to third parties in certain bank transactions is contested. Crimes related to the obstacle to the performance of the functions of the public supervisory authorities and the fact that they have provided the Florentine Cooperative Credit with false information about the causality of a financing to one of the companies involved in the activities of the Cooperative Credit itself were also contested. Other offences concern the evasion of taxes on income and value added and the issue of invoices for non-existent transactions. We are therefore moving towards the formulation of three separate fraud offences concerning Articles 640 and 640- bis of the Criminal Code. After all these interceptions, which have spread over a period ranging from March 2008 to December 2009, after a few months there was the registration in the register of suspects, which dates back to July 12, 2010. After obtaining the documentation, carried out the technical investigations considered necessary, it then took two more years or a little longer to arrive at the request for referral to trial. The defense of Senator Verdini was very articulated and spread on the points he felt, not so much to challenge what is defined - if in this case it had a foundation - fumus persecutionis, but to point out above all the high number of interceptions related to him, which would result in the lack of chance of the same, in addition to the fact that he would speak to a certain person, who is called Riccardo Fusi. The importance of this interception should have led to a correlation between Fusi himself and the then parliamentary of the Chamber of Deputies of Verdini. Some of these defenses were first assessed and then surpassed by the examination and evaluation of the Junta, referring to what is the reading and then the interpretation of our Constitutional Charter, especially with reference to two decisions of the consulta, one of 2007 and one of 2010, which have already been substantially remembered and to which I refer, although I think it is important to recall some passages in particular of the judgment n. 390 of 2007. The Consulta clarifies that the Chamber to which a request for authorization is addressed must first verify, when it comes to telephone interceptions, what is the direction of the act of inquiry, i.e. whether this act is directed exclusively towards third parties recipients of the interceptions or, on the contrary, whether it is specifically aimed at taking, so to speak, unlawful evidence towards the parliamentarians through the use of utilities registered to third persons. In the case of this trial, as peaceful and not contested by anyone, there has been no interception on utilities registered or referable to Senator Verdini. These are only interceptions of telephone calls on third persons who, among other things, as in the case of Fusi in particular, did not cover in the context of the Florentine Cooperative Credit any assignment and role, as I said and recognized during his audition by Senator Verdini himself, who said that compared to this bank for which the crimes I mentioned earlier were detected there was no direct contact and reference. In this perspective, which we could define as functionalist, as defined by the Consulta, a key and fundamental element to distinguish a legitimate random interception from an illegitimate interception, i.e. indirect one, is not so much the predictability of the conversations between the third and the parliamentarians, but rather the actual orientation of the inquisitory activity of the magistrate, who must not, at the time of carrying out the activity of collection, see an inditiary picture at the expense of the parliamentarians. Nor is it sufficient a general and smoky inditative framework, instead having to recognize an investigative framework such as to change the objective of the investigation and, consequently, the function of the interception. As we have seen, the numbers that I indicated in the initial part of this oral report and the time indications, i.e. the dates of registration, give absolutely reassuringness that there was this separation and the non-reliability of the inspections via interception carried out. Moreover, the considerations made with reference to this aforementioned judgment and confirmed jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court also make irrelevant a second objection raised by Senator Verdini and then debated during the discussion in Junta. I'm talking about the length of the time frame where the intercepts were made. This data is passed precisely on the basis of the theory of the functionalist perspective, as well as on the basis of the numerical data and the temporal indications provided. Another fact mentioned, which I summarize, is related to a precedent of the Senate Council, which referred to a case of the past legislature in which the Junta before and the Senate plenum had then rejected the request of the judiciary. It was a numerically and in fact totally different case, because we were talking about a very short time span within which one hundred interceptions had not been made, but over 1,100. Moreover, since the initial period they had emerged under the telephone control utilities of the Senate for as many as 57 times. It was a completely different case, and rightly the Junta, unanimously, had rejected the request made by the judiciary in the last parliamentary term. The Giunta therefore considers, with regard to the requirement of the necessity of the act, to refer to the specific indications of the judicial authority, for which I refer to the written report, indicating that these intercepts and conversations recorded, as indicated by the judge, are relevant in the context for the purposes of the accused hypotheses contested. For all these reasons the Giunta therefore proposes to the Assembly to accept the request for authorization to use the interceptions made against Senator Verdini, on utilities not belonging to Senator Verdini, but to third persons, waiting for the random nature of the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u95	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Enrico Fermi in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, who are following our works from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u96	Mr President, perhaps it is not worth repeating the concepts expressed about the evaluations carried out with regard to the other documents that we have already examined and voted on. The report has been comprehensive, proposing the deepening of the issue and the assessments that have been made serenely in Junta. I therefore have nothing more to add to what I have already said in my previous speeches: I would not like to tease my colleagues with unnecessary repetitions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u97	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u98	Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Casson again a question which I have already asked in the course of my work in the Junta, while waiting for the explanations he has given to me to be modified, in the course of other work in Junta, by other information we have received on the way in which the interceptions are carried out. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, because what I am asking Senator Casson is a point that I think is of some importance, so your attention, even in the light of your experience in this regard, can be of comfort to us. I know that she regulates and directs the work of this House, but she also represents the Senate, and it is good that the Senate does not make Markian mistakes. I say this because in the report, in the end, it is said that Senator Verdini is registered on the register of suspects on 11 February 2009. If this were the case, given that the interceptions take place at a time ranging from March 2008 to December 2009, the hypothesis, contained in Senator Casson's report, of the randomness of interceptions between 11 February 2009 and 31 December 2009 could never be plausible. In this case it would be a mistake marked, but material. On the other hand, it is possible that the error is not marked in relation to the materiality of the same, because in another part of the report there is talk of an integration of the registration in the register of suspects on July 10, 2010. It is possible, therefore, that it was not 11 February 2009, but 11 February 2010. However, if the registration in the register of suspects is of 11 February 2010, given the fact that the interceptions take place between February 2008 and 31 December 2009, considered a short post-Christmas working period, it is possible to believe that the investigative bodies have noticed interceptions from Senator Verdini only during a period between 7-8 January and 11 February. Now, how is it possible to unbind 50,000 interceptions and complete a summary of investigations to justify registration in the register of suspects on February 11, 2009? It is clear that in this case one of the references made by the judge of the laws is made; that is, the fraud law, that there is a specific circumvention and that, instead, the Senator Verdini had news, before, 31 December 2009 and that, therefore, it has proceeded in the interceptions without being respected the necessity of the registration in the register of the suspects at this point, failing the requirement of chance, necessary for the authorization to be authorized. Please, Senator Casson, the request I make to you is marked by respect, since you have taught me many things, so much so that in Junta we can consider you, in relation to the discussion of such matters, really a teacher. However, in case this point is not clarified, the mistake that the Senate would make would really be brandishing. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u99	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u100	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u101	Mr President, I would like to reply to Senator Ferrara very quickly, by institutional courtesy; just remember the dates. The interceptions in question, which concerned the Florentine Cooperative Credit, and therefore fraudulent bankruptcy and related crimes (such as false communications), took place from March 2008 to December 2009. The first registration, which concerns the crime of corruption but which has nothing to do with this case, stems from other activities that are carried out and is functional to the transfer of acts to Rome, precisely to communicate the transmission of these hypotheses of crime, such as the competition in corruption. Continuing that series of activities of documentary investigations and searches in Florence, concerning the Florentine Cooperative Credit. (The sitting was suspended at 7.11 p.m. and resumed at 9.11 p.m.) That part of the survey ends autonomously in July 2010 with a simple registration in the register of suspects. This registration has been completed for at least seven months now. Moreover, the overall survey ends in 2013, so much so that in February 2013 the request for referral to trial arrives. I think these dates and these numbers are enough to explain what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u102	I communicate that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u105	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senators, at the end of this afternoon's session of work devoted entirely to the handling of authorised requests for interceptions, which the judicial authority considers to be "casual," I believe that all the senators present can evaluate, without conditioning or binding mandate, as our Constitution states, what the real guarantees are for those who play the role of parliamentarians. Attention, the inquisitive and forcaiola drift, after the peak reached in the sad and unfair season of Tangentopoli risks finding a new sap today thanks to the embarrassment and degeneration of politics, transformed from healthy competition into mere opposition. We must not judge, let alone judge our colleagues. We are not magistrates here. We have a task which is both higher and simpler: we must ensure that the principles enshrined in our Constitutional Charter are respected. I wonder, are we doing this? Can this House really feel that it has written an upbuilding page of its own history today? Everyone will respond to it according to their own behaviour and beliefs in history and their own conscience. It is not the first time - I say this with regret - that the truth is sacrificed here to blow on a fire: that of anti-politics. I turn to Senator Giarrusso, who is fed daily by those who do not represent the citizens but simply fears them. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Mine (and it could not be otherwise) is a reflection based on bitterness, a true feeling that - Mr Verdini will allow me to do so - regardless of his personal case and the events that concern him: it comes only from the taking of action that this Senate, this policy is throwing in the towel, is archived, once again, the prerogatives that belong to it, in order to respond - precisely so - to a membership as blind as inadequate to interpret reality by handing its destiny to the judiciary. It is the policy - which is very serious - that has abdicated in favour of the judiciary. Attention! That is the crux of this vote. It always prevails that justiceism that unfortunately, pretending to moralize the country (underline the term pretending) and the political class ends irremediably to represent the presupposition, in fact, for an increasingly ideological policy, more and more destructive, more and more propaganda like the one that the 5 Star Movement Group constantly does. [[Ironic applause from Senator Simeoni.]] Just browse the Internet for a few minutes to realize how many sites and how many blogs not only of information that rightly dedicate space and prominence to parliamentarians investigated. On the other hand, if we look for a list of cases of unjustly accused politicians, those who may have been acquitted even before the judgment, those who have been prevented from continuing their activities of representation, including those who have not been able to overcome these phases, we find little or nothing. And yet we've seen so many, we've seen too many. Maybe this isn't news, it's definitely not news in the inquisitory squares, including the virtual ones, they're themes that don't get passionate. This House today is the saddest transposition. To trample on constitutional prerogatives, to trample on the role of Members of Parliament means to trample on Italian democracy, its institutions, and to trample on citizens. To reject this request would therefore not be a caste attitude, as the 5 Star Movement Group improperly says, a self-defense but, on the contrary, an act of democracy, an act of civilization. Today's ignavia will inevitably become the antechamber of new seasons of pitchforks and of legal and cultural backwardness. I'll say it one more time. We are not called here today to vote in favour or against Senator Verdini, we are not called upon to give a judgment, we are not called to express closeness or opposition to his events: we must judge only if the rules in force have been respected, very clear rules, as well as the innumerable pronouncements of the Supreme Court. In this case the facts are so clear that they leave no room for interpretations: two years of investigations, over 50,000 interceptions, of which 114 concerning Senator Verdini, a number that is always the same and on which I have not received any clarification and meanwhile this number turns in Rome as in Florence. There is also a statement by the Carabinieri, from which we can see a conversation by Mr Verdini (and I would like to stress the qualification of Mr Verdini, in order to refute the doubts about the status of the listener): no emphasis on this either. There is also a lack of causal link - as it is claimed - between the treatment of a bank's client and the bank itself. Finally, there is an excerpt from the investigation - in the case of Roman events - in which Verdini is registered in the register of suspects, he continues to be intercepted, he is also made stakeouts, but he is still considered extraneous to the investigation: in short, we are faced with a series of guilty contradictions. We are not available - and we could not be - to accept such contradictions, which are completely unrelated to reasonableness, to the limit of provocation. Those who believe in such assumptions will assume political responsibility for today and for the future. The Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura will vote against this request, against the prevarication of constitutional guarantees and against unreasonableness: a vote not in part, I want to emphasize it, but simply a fair vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u108	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to take the floor at the end of the explanations of vote, because Senator Casson did not make it in time to complete the clarifications he was giving me in the short way, and I have a doubt. Senator Casson explained to me that the registration of Senator Verdini in the register of suspects of 11 February 2009 is of the court of Florence, which is then the office that was making the interceptions and that he examined these documents and finally sent them to the court of Rome, which, read the interceptions, then enrolled Senator Verdini again in July. Now, I have a doubt, which I would like to expose to you so that it will remain in the proceedings: if Florence had not read the interceptions - and on 11 February Senator Verdini had been registered in the register of suspects - and sent all the others to the Public Prosecutor of Rome, who in July supplemented the February registration with the contents of the aforementioned interceptions, this means that the latter, sloping or not - because I do not think it was possible to debubinate 50,000 interceptions from 11 February or in any case from 10 March - were transferred and read to Rome in a very short time, so as to allow registration in the register of suspects in July. I confirm the doubt: but is it possible to read 50,000 interceptions in such a short period? There remains the uncertainty that, in a ripple between Florence and Rome, it was circumvention and that therefore there is no possibility of resolving the doubt to which we will have to refer, not with regard to the content of the investigations, but referred to in the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, being circumvention, we are right in not having access to the request for the use of interceptions, as they have been carried out in contradiction with the provisions of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u109	Pursuant to Article 113 (2), I shall proceed to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Vote by secret ballot, president. I therefore refer to the secret ballot by electronic procedure of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to accept the request for authorization to use wiretapping of telephone conversations made against Senator Verdini, a Member at the time of the events, transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Florence, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him. I remember that the senators in favour will vote yes by pressing the green button, the senators against will vote no by pressing the red button. Those who want to abstain will express themselves accordingly by pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be orange for everyone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u110	Since the examination of the draft law has not been completed - Amendment of Article 416-b of the Penal Code - in the Commission - the debate is postponed to the afternoon sitting of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u113	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I asked for a brief reminder of Aldo Braibanti, a mild intellectual, who died last Sunday, whose funerals were held in private in Piacenza yesterday. Aldo Braibanti was partisan, philosopher, artist, but above all he became known for having been the victim of one of the darkest pages in the history of Republican Italy, tried and condemned, the only case in the world in the century, for the crime of plagiarism. Aldo Braibanti was born in Fiorenzuola d'Arda on September 17, 1922. From there he had moved to Florence to study philosophy, but in 1940 he had entered underground to participate in partisan movements, first with Justice and Freedom, then with the Communist Party. He had been arrested twice: the first time together with Ugo La Malfa, the second time tortured by the Charity Band. Poet, writer, theatrical author and filmmaker, an extraordinary genius, according to Carmelo Bene, who will tell how the young Aldo had taught him to read in verses. From 1947 Braibanti had given birth to Castell'Arquato to a community of artists and intellectuals, together with Sylvano Bussotti and Marco Bellocchio, with whom he participated in the founding of the "Quaderni Piacentini" before moving to Rome with his companion. But that Italy could not tolerate a homosexual relationship between two adult people lived in the sunlight, so John's father, Braibanti's companion, denounced him for plagiarism; a crime included in the fascist age in our order and never applied before or after, not present in any penal code of the world. Thus the eclectic artist, the former partisan and then Tuscan manager of the Young Communists became his in spite of being the protagonist of one of the most resounding processes of the century. Accused of being a thief of souls, a diabolical invader of spirits, the reincarnation of the devil by his judges, Braibanti became the scapegoat of an Italy anchored in the past, terrified by the strong social changes that stood on the horizon of European history, eager to repress with the iron fist any disturbance to the moral and sexual order constituted. The public defense of the young intellectual by Umberto Eco, Dacia Maraini, Alberto Moravia, Guido Calogero, Pier Paolo Pasolini and Marco Pannella earned nothing. In 1968 Braibanti was sentenced to nine years of imprisonment, then transformed into four, then reduced to two because of his partisan activity; two years he served to Regina Coeli, leaving just on the day that the Italian Chamber approved the law on divorce and turned page on the theme of sexual and family morality in this country. That law, the law on plagiarism, will then be abolished in 1981 by the Constitutional Court, so not by Parliament's own decision, but by an imposition by the judiciary. In order for Parliament, in order for the Italian State to recognize the barbarity that had occurred to Aldo Braibanti, it will be necessary to wait for 2006, when the Prodi Government recognized Braibanti's right, through the Bacchelli law, to a vitality, because of its precarious economic conditions. I end by recalling him with the words of Pier Paolo Pasolini, a man who, like him, knew trials for his sexuality and knew the repression in bigoted Italy of the sixties. If there is a mild man - Pasolini wrote of Braibanti - in the purest sense of the term, this is Braibanti: in fact he never leaned on anything or anyone; he never demanded or demanded anything. What, then, is the crime that he committed in order to be condemned through the alleged accusation of plagiarism? His crime was his weakness, which he chose to reject any form of authority. Had he accepted some common intellectual idea, the communist one, the bourgeois one, the Catholic one or the purely literary one, he would have been saved. He refused to identify himself with any of these intellectual figures - finally buffoonish. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u116	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on a subject relating to public security and the protection of personal data, remembering that there was just yesterday a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union declaring the illegality of a directive of 2006, the so-called Frattini directive on the retention of traffic data, for violation of the right to the protection of personal data, because, among other things, it does not make any difference between the term of retention of traffic data according to the type of crime, its seriousness and therefore the requirements of detection and repression, to which data retention would be functional. Now, during the day, an urgent question with an oral answer to the President of the Council of Ministers and, by direct competence, to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior should have been submitted precisely in order to be able to know and to call for action, including at the level of the Council of the European Union, on the adoption of a new discipline of the data retention that ensures a more balanced balance between data protection and the needs of repression of crime, which must be differentiated according to what I indicated earlier. Moreover, this requires the Italian State to intervene urgently for a revisiting of the current discipline in the matter of data retention. Today there was also an intervention by the Privacy Supervisor. I believe that urgent action at European level and at internal regulatory level is absolutely necessary to remind our Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u119	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the objective of having cities increasingly usable by our citizens with disabilities is without doubt a priority, and Italian law also provides for measures aimed at overcoming architectural barriers, in order to achieve that substantial equality provided for in the second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution. Unfortunately, it is clear that there is still a long way to go before this principle is put into practice. Unfortunately a case not isolated - and I am very sorry because it is my city - is that of Parma, in which also areas, neighborhoods and public buildings of new construction are difficult to access. According to what has been repeatedly denounced by associations that protect disabled citizens, it is in particular impossible to use the new railway station in an autonomous way. The structure, the result of an overall reconstruction of the previous station, has in fact numerous criticalities. In this transitional phase of execution of the works, the main problem was the staircase, necessary to get down in the underpass and then access to the tracks, usable only after reservation given the need to have an employee intervene from the station of Bologna. The obstacle is overcome through the construction of lifts that allow disabled users to reach also the docks for buses, located in the road seat below the same station. From here, however, bus access becomes impossible. On the arrival of the vehicles, in fact, the platform that should allow access to them by the disabled forms with the sidewalk a slope such as to make it impossible to access the same buses in an autonomous way. This is also a fact verified by the company of the Municipality of Parma, which has carried out several tests, in collaboration with associations that protect disabled citizens. Unfortunately, this problem has not been taken into account in the design, although it has been well known for some time. Moreover, the excessive slope then makes it impossible to secure access to the stop by people with disabilities who travel the neighbouring via Bottego and via Alessandria. The situation is not better in some newly built neighborhoods. The speech applies to the areas of Vicofertile, Cavagnari and Eurosia, with inaccessible pedestrian crossings. Also in this case, the lack of attention in the design phase, as well as the respect of the law rules to those dictated by common sense, has led to the realization of pavements that have excessive slopes in some sections. These are, quite clearly, not pre-existing works, but ex-novo structures, for which not only the rules of law should have been respected, but also the prescriptions dictated by common sense. In this context, the mayor of the Municipality of Parma, instead of dealing with these issues, to distract attention from its inefficiencies, is screwed in the controversy with the head of its Movement. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u120	Colleagues, what happened this morning. With me presiding over certain episodes, they don't have to happen. [[Applause. Senator Endrizzi wears a]] scarf [[with the words "No TAV" in the form of "No TAV" in the form of "No TAV" in the form ……]] Senator Endrizzi, I'll call you back. Take it off, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u123	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly the written response of the Ministers for the Environment, Territory and the Sea and Health to my question 4-00260 tabled on 28 May 2013 on the serious environmental and health problems in the Bussi sul Tirino area. This response is even more necessary in the light of what emerged from the extraordinary Municipal Council held in Bussi on 7 April and in which I participated. The pollution of the industrial area of Bussi is historical and is the result of an economic policy based on chemist. We must not forget the fact that in the years of Montedison, and even earlier, they have been produced in those highly harmful gas territories such as iprite. We cannot underestimate the investigation carried out by the ARTA and the Forestale on the wells of Sant'Angelo, with which the presence of heavy metals such as mercury and lead and other pollutants such as vinyl chloride and trichloroethylene, present in the water, has been revealed, which have determined, before 2007, dangers to the health of citizens of the municipalities downstream located beyond the area of the pole of Montedison and mega-dissemination, toxic and abusive, Tremonti. The findings have led to a process, to the closure of polluted wells and to the consequent creation of an alternative water network connected to other wells, guaranteeing uncontaminated drinking water with absolute tranquility, at least up to the connection with the previous water network. Politics and institutions must offer solutions that reconcile the fundamental needs for compensation and health protection of citizens living in the valley of Bussi with those for the valorization and development of tourist and economic activities not subject to pollution since they are located before the former Montedison plant and the Tremonti area. Colleagues, Bussi presents two realities not to be confused. The upstream area is characterized by a landscape of inestimable beauty and value around which gravits a tourist and economic system that for the Abruzzo Region is of fundamental importance. This great naturalistic heritage must be kept well distinct from the polluted area for the protection of an economy, already precarious and in great difficulty, which can be brought to its knees. A process is under way against the leaders of the Montedison Group and the regional water management bodies, for the crimes of pollution, environmental disaster and water poisoning, and these days the spotlight has been rekindled, risking to confuse even the clean reality already stated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your surgery, Senator Blundo. BLUNDO (M5S). I'll finish. A huge environmental damage, estimated by ISPRA in about €8.5 billion and a contamination of about 2 million cubic meters of land, on which it is essential to work with funds aimed at adequate reclamation and safety, quite different from a flat tarpaulin to cover and surface cliffs. The criticalities are found in the industrial site area and must be addressed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, you have to finish. BLUNDO (M5S). In addition to the answer to my question, which I urge with my speech, other requests have been made, and I ask for an answer quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u124	Colleagues, the speeches at the end of the sitting serve to ask questions, not to carry them out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u127	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to my question, 4-01812, which was lodged on 6 March 2014 at sitting No 204. I urge you because it deals with a fundamental issue. There are workers who have been fired. A judgment of first instance of the court of Nola has caused them to be reinstated; the company Avio di Pomigliano d'Arco has not yet reinstated them, but there is something much more serious: in fact, the reinstatement also provided for the payment of wages from the moment this unlawful dismissal occurred until the moment of reintegration, but to date these salaries have not been paid. As a result, these people, with families, have nothing to eat and still stand in front of the factory with a tent: they ask at least to speak, to dialogue. That is what we asked the Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u130	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, it was on 10 April last year when I took the first step to bring the spokesperson's contribution to this House, and today too I am bearing the suffering of 140 people, 140 families, grieved for not having had, after 23 years, a shred of justice. Because this is what we are talking about: thirst, need for justice. It was 1991 and, in the waters in front of the port of Livorno, was consumed one of the most painful disasters of the Italian marinery, the tragedy of the ship Moby Prince: 140 people died arse alive. The smallest passenger was named Ilenia Canu and was only one year old. Today the 5 Star Movement wants to give concrete support to the battle for the truth that, for years, family members, acquaintances and friends of the victims are fighting. The 5 Star Movement has, in fact, presented a bill for the establishment of a bicameral commission of inquiry to shed light on what happened in the harbor of Livorno on that terrible night. In 1997, a first political attempt was made to shed light on this affair, but with a negative outcome. What was not possible in 1997 - I am sure - will be possible in this legislature, because the need to clarify what happened is shared by the same president of the Senate, Pietro Grasso, who rightly, last year, affirmed the need for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into the unsolved massacres in Italy. I am sorry that President Grasso is not here now. I remember that on that occasion he sent a message to the Mayor of Livorno in which he wrote: Justice is the only form of comfort for those who have lost their loved ones in tragedies of such a wide scope. It is my hope that the memory of this date can continue to speak loudly. And then he added: I hope that Parliament will also be able to contribute to this objective, using all the instruments at its disposal, starting with the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the unsolved massacres of our country. Here we go. We collected the invitation of both President Grasso and his family. We know that other Members of Parliament, of different political forces, have also moved in this direction. Very well: this means that it will be a stronger and more choral appeal. Today, we consider the request to set up this Commission of Inquiry to be a necessary act. "Moby Prince: 140 dead, no culprit!" says the banner of the victims' family. We don't want any shadows left on this matter. The dead of the Moby Prince demand justice. The aim we propose is to answer, after so many years, giving real voice to all those questions and suspicions that technicians and experts have highlighted, helped also by new technologies. Lighting depends only on our will. Mr President, we appeal to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u133	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on a very regrettable matter. I presented two questions, respectively on 23 December 2013 and 2 January 2014, concerning the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office. I have asked for the answer to these questions two or three times in the presence of the Letta Government and two more times since the Renzi Government. Well, tomorrow the answer to an interview by a senator from another Group - it is part of the majority, but it will certainly be a case - on the same subject, with the small detail that this questioning is of March 18 of this year. I believe that it is absolutely intolerable to take double standards. The Government for its own dignity and, above all, the Senate cannot do such a thing. I would ask you, Mr President, to speak to President Grasso. The Senate cannot calendarize the response to an interrogation with preferential criteria, so the majority responds and the opposition is not answered. I repeat that the subject is identical, the answer to my questioning has been asked five times and has been submitted three months before the other. It's a fact I won't accept. Tomorrow I will repeat my prayer. In any case, I want it to be known from now on that I will absolutely not accept this way of acting. This has already happened with amendments which are not similar, but identical: some of the majority have been considered admissible and others of the opposition, and precisely my own, considered inadmissible. In both cases they have been approved and today they are law. I did not say anything at the time, but this is absolutely intolerable, and it adds up to the other things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u134	Senator Malan, as soon as today's sitting is over, it will be our concern to urge the government to respond to your interrogation. I believe, in fact, that the inspection union is an exquisite prerogative of the opposition, and not of the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-227.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.49.
