ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, in accordance with Rule 107 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, to check the quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Unfortunately, Senator Montevecchi, your request has come to an end, since it has already been stated that, since there are no comments, the Minutes are deemed to be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1213. The rapporteur, Senator De Monte, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before the Senate House today is part of the wide-ranging action to continue on the road to the revision of public expenditure. In view of the country's serious economic situation, Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 addresses the long-standing question of the abolition of direct public funding to political parties and the discipline of voluntary contributions by individuals. The need and urgency of adopting this measure is reflected in the need to adopt, quickly and surely, the transition to a system based on the free choices of taxpayers which attaches, in particular to citizens, a central role on the financing of parties and a full implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution, so that, through political parties, everyone can contribute democratically to determining national policies. It goes beyond the model of public-private mixed contribution introduced by Law No 96 of 6 July 2012, towards a system of rules guaranteeing the internal democracy of political parties and the transparency of their functioning and budgets, identifying a balance between the principle of freedom of political association (which is a foundation of every democracy) and the equally important legal requirements that must assist any public support intervention. We must always bear in mind the indication of the electoral body expressed in the 1993 referendum, which must be followed up. Today's challenge is to create a new organisation for parties, saving resources from their management. The challenge is also to change the party approach, with an initiative that must be increasingly addressed to voters and not just to members. Article 1 provides for the abolition of the current system of reimbursement of electoral expenses and public contribution for political activity, according to gradual criteria: the public contribution, in fact, is progressively reduced by 25% in 2014, 50% in 2015 and 75% in 2016 and completely ceases from 2017. To the public contribution is replaced - thus - the voluntary fiscally facilitated one, according to the modalities that this decree-law intends to discipline. Article 2 clarifies that, in line with the provisions of the Constitution, political parties are defined as free associations through which citizens contribute, democratically, to determining national policy. The parties remain, therefore, associations without legal personality to which the Civil Code regime applies in relation to non-recognized associations. Article 3 provides that political parties wishing to avail themselves of the benefits provided for in this decree are required to have a statute drawn up in the form of a public act. The statutes of the individual party must indicate, inter alia, the following: the frequency of national or general congress meetings; the procedures required for the approval of acts committing the party; the rights and duties of members and their guarantee bodies; the manner of participation of members in the party's activities; the criteria by which minorities are ensured in the non-executive collegial bodies; the modalities for promoting, in the composition of collegial bodies, the balance between the sexes; the disciplinary measures which may be taken against members, the competent bodies to assume them and the procedures for appeal provided for, ensuring the right to defence and respect for the principle of contradiction. The Statute should also provide for the selection of nominations for the European Parliament, the National Parliament, the Regional and Municipal Councils, as well as for the positions of mayor and president of the Region; it should also provide for the body responsible for economic and financial management and the establishment of the relevant criteria and the body responsible for approving the financial statements. In the Commission, it was considered necessary to intervene by specifying that the symbol of the party and the name, even in the short form, must be clearly distinguishable from those of any other existing political party. Article 4 clarifies - on the other hand - that the conditions for access to these benefits are the registration and stay in a national register, which can be consulted in a specific section of the Italian Parliament's Internet portal, in which two separate sections are highlighted: one relating to political parties that meet the requirements to be admitted to private financing under preferential tax arrangements, the other relating to political parties admitted to the allocation of 2 per thousand of taxpayers' income tax that have opted for this destination. The Commission took the view that details should be given as to how the statutes should be amended. Article 5 regulates rules on transparency and simplification. Access to information on the statute of parties, internal functioning and budgets is also ensured through publication on the websites of political parties. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved certain amendments to Article 5, which provides that, by 15 July of each year, the statutes of the political parties are to be published on the websites of the political parties, after a check of regularity and conformity. The financial statements shall be accompanied by the report on the management and the supplementary note, the report of the auditor or the audit firm, where applicable, and the minutes of approval of the financial statements by the relevant body of the political party. The same publications are communicated to the Presidents of the Chambers and given evidence on the official website of the Italian Parliament. Articles 6 and 7 are devoted to the consolidation of financial statements and the external certification of financial statements. It is envisaged, in particular, that the budget of the party should also include the budgets of regional fora, as well as those of foundations and associations whose governing bodies are composed in whole or in part of the deliberations of the parties. As regards the remaining sanctioning rules, the Decree-Law reproduces, in substance, the sanctions already provided for by Law No 96 of 2012, which can be imposed by the Guarantee Commission in case of irregularities, but adapting them to the new regulatory framework which, in the absence of direct public funding, relies on the reduction of resources of 2 per thousand of the IRPEF. Article 9 lays down a specific sanction mechanism for political parties which do not favour the principle of equality in access to elected posts, as referred to in Article 51 of the Constitution. In particular, it is expected that if in the total number of candidates of a political party in each election of the Chamber, Senate or Members of the European Parliament, one of the sexes is represented to less than 40%, the resources payable to the political party under 2 per thousand are reduced by a percentage of 0.50 for each percentage point of difference between 40 and the percentage of candidates of the least represented sex, to the overall maximum limit of 10 per cent. It is a rule to protect and guarantee equal access to elected posts. In addition, it is envisaged that in the event of 10% of the 2 per 1000 resources being not allocated to initiatives to promote women's participation in political life, a sanction will be applied, a sanction which the Commission has considered to be a more restrictive change. Article 10 of the Decree-Law regulates the access requirements of the parties to the voluntary contribution facilitated and introduces limits to the liberal disbursements in favour of the parties. The parties that can be admitted, on request, to the private financing facilitated with the tax deduction, in addition to being naturally entered in the register, must have obtained in the last electoral consultation at least one candidate elected under its own symbol in the elections for the renewal of the Senate, the Chamber, the members of the European Parliament due to Italy or in one of the regional councils or autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano. Paragraphs 7 to 12 of the same Article 10 instead introduce a new discipline with limits to direct private contribution. In any case, as approved by the Commission, each natural person may not make liberal payments in cash or in any case pay contributions in goods or services, in any form and in any way provided, including by interpose person or through subsidiaries, except for the legacy victims cause, in favour of a single political party for a total value of more than 100,000 euros per year. In the Commission there was a broad debate on the maximum limit for liberal disbursements, as well as on the percentage ceiling for party revenues (5 per cent) which was considered to be abolished. As far as the types of benefits are concerned in more detail, Article 11 provides - as amended in the Commission - that as from 2014 the liberal payments made by individuals in favour of political parties will benefit from a single deduction from income tax to the extent of 26% for amounts between EUR 30 and EUR 20,000 per year. The Commission considered to eliminate the possibility of deduction for attending party schools. With regard to the second channel of support for party activity, Article 12 introduces, as from 2014, the possibility for the taxpayer to allocate 2 per thousand of its personal income tax to a political party entered in the second section of the register referred to in Article 4. Taxpayers' choices shall be made in the annual tax return by filling in a form comprising the list of entitled parties on which the taxpayer may indicate a single person to be allocated 2 per thousand of his income tax; in the case of unexpressed choices, the available resources shall remain at the Treasury. Article 13 lays down provisions to facilitate the collection of funds for campaigns promoting participation in political life either through SMS or other mobile phone applications or by fixed telephone users through a phone call. In the Commission, then, it was considered necessary to add an article 13-a according to which the protection in court in disputes concerning the application of the provisions of this decree is put to the exclusive jurisdiction of the administrative court, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the ordinary court in the matter of administrative sanctions pursuant to Article 8 (8), and an article 14-a which submits direct control of electoral expenses to the Court of Auditors alone. As regards transitional rules, public funding to parties is fully recognised in the current financial year on the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law (i.e. 2013), and is progressively reduced in the measures of 25, 50 and 75 per cent of the amount due, respectively, in the first, second and third years following the entry into force of the Decree-Law and definitively ceases from the fourth following financial year. Finally, the rules of the decree under conversion concern the transparency of the financial and patrimonial situation of the Treasurer of the Party or of the political movement, as well as the extraordinary treatment of wage integration for the foreseeable reduction of staff in parties. I believe that this measure should be welcomed, even in response to the serious economic crisis that the country is facing. Parliament, working on the text with the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has made an essential contribution to it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u9	I greet a representative of students of the Scuola medio statale "Martin Luther King" of Casoria, in the province of Naples, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u11	Mr President, the provision that the Senate Assembly is going to examine and then vote is not just any one. If we add up the measure we are discussing with the new electoral law under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies and with the norms that the House and Senate have recently approved (which, among other things, concern the reduction of the number of municipal and regional councillors), and we add one of the hypotheses envisaged, that is not so much the modification of Title V of the Constitution, but the repeal of the Senate as it has been known and foreseen in the Constitutional Charter, we realize that we are facing a full modification of the Italian political system and a remarkable modification of the Constitution in force for some ten years now. It is impressive (I would like to say "pre-occupant") that this debate is taking place in pieces, as if it were completely removed from the recognition of an extraordinary modification - in the sense of a decidedly profound - of the political-institutional organization that saw Italy reborn after the end of the Second World War. I do not support and will not argue that the Constitutional Charter should not be revised and that the order it defines, which was good in the first decades of the Italian Republic's life, should not be revisited, restored and modified today; but I say that the modalities and times we have established, as well as the absence of a framework in which to establish the inclusion of such measures, risk causing a disruption to an already decidedly fragile institutional and constitutional system. We need to be sure of what we're going to do. The provision that will presumably be given birth by the Senate and then by the House will have, among other things, at least two consequences. The first will be to favour the parties that respond to the model that some politologists define as the party of the emir, that is those parties that have a certain organizational source of financing: it is the personal party par excellence, to which we started, especially during the last twenty years. There is no possible comparison with the past that precedes this twenty years. At that time there could be parties that had strong personalities at the top, but they had parties that had a widespread organization scattered over the territory and deeply democratic. The second type of party provided for by the provision we are debating - and which we are going to vote on today or probably tomorrow - is a great party: not only to the extent (a party that takes many votes, a large electorally strong party), but great in that it is well established in the places of power, because if it has not settled in the places of power, in the places where decisions are taken, therefore strong in the management of power, probably the parties not linked to a summit, that of the party of the emir, will have no chance of living. So today - and we must be aware of this - we give life or continuity to two types of parties, one known recently and the other not yet perfectly known by our democracy, not even so young. Mr President, we should have the courage to incorporate these changes into a framework for institutional renewal of the decisive and resolute political and constitutional system; and it is the courage we lacked; but above all, in the sum of a new framework (new parties, absence of the Senate, different electoral law, different municipal and regional councils), we should have the courage to review a part of the Constitution that we have not yet revised. I quote three cases: how the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are appointed; how the Chambers of the Constitutional Court are appointed; how the Head of State is elected. If we change these cardinal points of the legal framework and instead do not deal with the individual articles of our Constitution, we cannot think that everything remains untouched, because changing the procedures and the subjects of reference determines a different result. Think: having a Senate no longer of the Republic but of the local autonomy, who should elect, for example among the great voters, the President of the Republic? It does not seem to me a marginal issue to put your finger on this wound, because that is what it is about. Anyone who wants to do so can find an amendment which is built on purpose, which I would suggest at least to examine, if not to support. In the proposal we are debating, Article 3 provides for the possibility of a statute to be followed by parties; It is not said in the proposal that the exit from that statute results in the impossibility of access to the benefits - among other things, the 2 per thousand funding - that the new rule provides for. My opinion is that, if I jump it must be, it must be a real leap; and the real leap we are able to make only if we return to the dictation that has been written, and that the Constituents did not want to examine and did not want to stick in the Charter, and that it bore the name of Piero Calamandrei. The parties must have a public organization, they must be democratic organisations with a statute. If the statute is not respected, we must write in this rule that those who do not respect the democratic statute they give cannot have access to either the 2 per thousand financing or any other form of benefit that the new rule, when it is adopted, will be able to foresee. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u12	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u13	Mr President, it makes me smile how many things have happened in these days in these classrooms, we have talked about so many very important measures such as electoral law and Senate reform and today we are finally talking about this very important issue for our country, which will give a strong signal of how politics is dealing with citizens: in fact, we are talking about public funding to parties. I'm really excited: there's no decency! At the very least, we would like to remind the new Secretary of the Democratic Party, according to which one of the most important reforms he had to carry out was the famous Jobs Act, which since he entered the stage we have heard him talk about everything but work. And so, while we are all engaged in the examination of new unconstitutional electoral laws (let us remember, because the last one you are preparing is equally unconstitutional: it is called Italicum but we call it "Prejudicatellum" or even "Biporcellum"), these are the only arguments that can be dealt with. But let's go back to the theme of the day, which defines the theme of the day makes smile, because it has been about two decades that unfortunately is topical (you can only talk about that): twenty-one years ago the Italian people expressed with great clarity their opinion on public funding for parties. Some have forgotten it, others have removed it, others have been guilty of ignoring it: in April 1993 there was a referendum and in the polls 90% of Italians said they wanted a clean policy, a policy made out of passion and not economic interests, a policy based on activism and not bureaucracy; in other words, they said no to public funding for parties. But as always, thanks to one of the most spectacular cosmetic operations of the last legislatures, you have managed to disregard with the utmost boldness what the people had said. So, you changed the name of the funding and turned it into electoral refunds. Let's say that the business of the political, European and regional elections of the last two decades has yielded very well: according to Openpolis, since 1994 you have benefited from as much as 2.7 billion euros. Too bad, though, by taking a look at the invoices and the expenses incurred, it appears to us that you have almost EUR 2 billion still in the coffers. We need to know both how you are managing them and why, if you do not need them for politics, you are still taking them from the pockets of the citizens; provided that in the meantime this money, considering the fine examples we have had from Lusi, Penati and Fiorito, have not already taken other directions. Today, therefore, we find ourselves with yet another example of abuse of the urgent decree. We have now realized that this Executive has the exclusive monopoly of legislative power and has transformed Montecitorio and Palazzo Madama into a desk of paperweights. All this is intended to cover the shame of a proposal that for the umpteenth time changes makeup to form and worsens the substance. There will then be parties that will be able to sign up to the appropriate register and access the financing to tax facilitated, while, casually, political movements will not be allowed, unless they accept the blackmail to become precisely those parties that are fighting. Well, you know that money doesn't interest us, we've shown it to you. But we also know too well that this decree is designed at the table to prevent us from giving up that money, because you wanted to save at least the slap we gave you publicly. You are vaguely embarrassed, but despite all this you just can't do the right thing: you have to take this money, you need it to keep up all this Parliament of broad understanding, which has been ruling this country so well for ten months, taking it out of its problems, the problem of work and that of justice. Keep taking money to do what you're doing: you're amazing! A few more gems: instead of applying the reform immediately, you have foreseen that it will enter into force in 2017. Meanwhile, your treasures will continue to receive €91 million for 2014; €54.6 million for 2015; €45.5 million for 2016; €36.04 million for 2017. To this substantial contribution you will also add the additional donations of private citizens, which should instead be your only source of income. And if they don't arrive, you have guaranteed the insurance of a good extra lump thanks to the appropriate state fund, which will satisfy hungry appetites. But that all the laws you passed on electoral funding in 1997, 1999, 2002, 2006 and, again, in 2012, are to be considered openly elusive and manipulative of the referendum result, and therefore materially restorers of repealed rules as they restored the privileges repealed by the 1993 referendum, using semantic artifices such as reimbursement instead of contribution, tax reductions instead of authentic donations, thus violating the principle of equality and equality between parties and citizens, it is not we who say it: the authoritative judiciary of the Court of Auditors says so. Yet, this call has caused him to fall into the void. We are always on the side of justice, on the side of the people, not only when it suits us. What about you? We keep asking ourselves: which side are you on? Colleagues of the majority and opposition, prove it in the facts that you want to break with the past, for which you should only feel ashamed. Return to citizens EUR 2.7 billion that you have taken away from them by carrying out an anti-democratic scam [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] using legal artifacts and propaganda tricks that have lasted for more than twenty years. The Italian people no longer know what to do with hypocritical chatter: today they ask you to show them only good and concrete examples. As usual you will say that these are propagandistic shots of the 5 Star Movement. You will continue to shout at the four winds that without public money you cannot make politics, ignoring the fact that the 5 Star Movement has elected 160 citizens, between the House and the Senate; it has renounced 42 million electoral refunds; it has returned 4 million surpluses, between allowances and refunds; we have also removed 420,000 euros of the surpluses collected with spontaneous offers. True, we are the new Resistance, even if you do not like it. As long as scandals occur, such as the theft of EUR 7.5 billion with the so-called Bankitalia decree; as long as you obstruct the changes to the penal code to fight a corruption that costs us 60 billion; as long as some of you want to continue to take advantage of your political role to pursue interests unrelated to the welfare of the country, we will denounce it. For us politics is done only with clean hands, and for us politics is really honesty and courage. Prove courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sposetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, "Private financing" for a private citizen is tantamount to a mortgage on fundamental values, political strategies and the ideas of a country. The party in this case is only formally owner of its own dynamics, the lender-master will claim the mortgage installment and interest (with very high rate). I reported what was written on a piece of paper that was delivered to me after a debate at a Festa de l'Unità on July 10, 2013, after the presentation by the Letta Government of the bill on the subject today to our attention. Who wrote this reflection is a young man of 29 years. The constituent Fathers, with Article 49 of the Constitution ("All citizens have the right to join freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national politics") wanted to emphasize the free association, the free participation by citizens and the democratic method, freedom that we can finally guarantee only through the regulation of the internal life of the parties, that is, finally giving full implementation to Article 49. One of the most illustrious exponents of the political life of the twentieth century gave a heartfelt speech in this House (the discussion on trust in the 2nd Fanfani Government was under way) at the afternoon session of 11 July 1958, making a precise reference to the urgency of regulating political parties and including them in the Constitution, adding that it is always necessary and urgent for a law to regulate the finances of parties, forbid their financing by public bodies and private companies, make public the budgets, fix the maximum that each candidate can receive and pay for electoral expenses, or the decline of the mandate. If we do not bravely tackle the situation not only in the political elections, but also in the municipal, provincial and regional elections will be affected by corruption. Let us not deceive ourselves; freedom will end up being chained by the corruption of political activity. This colleague of ours - for my part I use the adjective immersively - was the life-senator Luigi Sturzo, founder of the People's Party. It fails participatory democracy when a party becomes an electoral committee; it fails when a party becomes a personal expression of the leader of reference; it fails when politics is no longer the voice of the community of women and men who animate it (the militancy was once called) and whose objective is the common good. It undermines democratic life, in my opinion, if equal economic opportunities are not given to produce politics, to produce culture. What is the debate in the Anglo-Saxon world, since Parliament is going to follow the Anglo-Saxon model? Martin Wolf, columnist of the prestigious "Finncial Times" in a dossier on the future of capitalism in 2012, wrote that one of the seven key points to repair the system's defects is to put a brake on the market's intrusiveness in politics. The relationship between wealth and politics is seen with concern: protecting politics from the plutocracy is one of the great challenges for the protection of democracies. What, then, should be done? The protection of politics from the market is achieved through the regulation, by law, of the financing during the elections and by the provision of public resources to those engaged in them. At least a partial public funding of parties and elections (we are in England) is inevitable. More and more people look to the United States, where public funding is only provided during election campaigns for the presidential elections (even for the primary ones). Well, President Obama, during the October 8, 2013 conference on public debt, stated that there are no rules on how to finance electoral campaigns; there are not many democracies that work in this way, in which you can have millionaires and billionaires who finance anyone who wants, how much they want, in some cases even in a secret way. This means that ordinary Americans are cut off from the process. And he concluded that there is some ideological extremist who has a lot of liquidity and who can completely divert the political world. That's what Obama said. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to recognise the parties legally. Article 51 of the Constitution reads as follows: "All citizens of one sex and the other sex shall have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law." The decree-law at our examination is intended to reform the financing and with it the rules that the parties have to give themselves to define themselves as such, in rapid and certain times. The haste to run faster than the feelings of anti-politics makes us lose sight, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that our objective as legislators is to work to ensure that there is a participatory democracy, by broadening, implementing and implementing these articles of the Constitutional Charter that show us the way, and not tearing them up according to needs and conveniences. Parliament will save Italians EUR 1.51 a year. That is the price of Italian democracy. At the end of the decree we will have rewritten Article 49. "All citizens have the right to compete and determine national policy through their own income." That's what we're writing, a great masterpiece. I have sent to all my colleagues and I give my speech to the Presidency, which contains other considerations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BEEPS (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking you for your kindness and asking further questions. Is democracy a value? Has democracy become a burden for Italian citizens? How and where does the Italian ruling class form? The thrust and strength of anti-politics, demagogy, of which they wrote - I apologise for the malice - this decree. The anti-politics, demagogy, which do not caress, ladies and gentlemen, but fight with politics and with reforms, especially with more politics, with good politics, with the recovery of values and with the ethics of behavior. All things that are not told, but practiced. Politics must practice them every day. Citizens are waiting for construction sites to be opened, there is work; families expect more resources at the end of the month. In recent weeks, Parliament is laudably committed to discussing and legislate on issues of the country's institutional framework. Reforms such as electoral law, the House, the financing of parties, the Senate, bicameralism and the role of the Senate, the suppression of Provinces, the increase in metropolitan areas, Title V of Part II of the Constitution are at stake. Parliament and politics are preparing to redesign a new Republic. General De Gaulle to draw the Fifth Republic entrusted himself to Maurice Duverger, one of the best politologists of his time. The French - let's face it - were, at least in this, luckier than we were. The Senate is about to vote on a measure that does not restore dignity to politics, which does not prevent citizens from finding themselves without a political home, which does not recover mistrust and disaffection towards institutions and parties, which does not stop the crisis of representation, which does not resolve the crisis of the party form in Italy. It is easy - I know it is easy - to ride the animal of anti-politics. In these months I have met many young people, such as the one who wrote to me that card quoted at the beginning of my speech, and twenty-year-olds who ask for more politics, want modern and transparent parties; they ask for ethics, values and morality. Certainly those of us who have done this work - and I take on all the responsibilities, of course not criminal ones - have given great arguments to anti-politics. I feel responsible. We didn't control ourselves. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, SCPI, Misto-SEL and Senator Barani.]] We need subjects that promote the recovery of values, we do not need the Government of lobbying: there are already too many around. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I still believe in the value of membership, the value of the card, an idea and a political family. I read somewhere that politics is the thing that allows a dreamer to join a community of dreamers. Well, Mr President, I am a dreamer, but I will continue to think calmly, to draw my attention to democracy and to the parties. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Bonfrisco. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u16	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u17	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, the Government, let us be clear: parties are subject to private law. No one dreamed that they should be financed with public money until the oil scandal broke out in 1974. Socialists, Republicans, Christian Democrats, Social Democrats were on the payroll of ENEL and oil companies. The Rumor government fell and La Malfa, to return to coalition, demanded that dignity be given back to the political class. How? By introducing public funding under Law No 195 of 1974. The concept was, if the state doesn't give him the money, they have to steal: Let's finance them. Instead, the parties have pocketed public funding and with their pockets swollen in less than twenty years they have plundered every smallest meander of public administration and transformed Italy into Tangentopolis, the country of bribes. It was the year 1992. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Immediately a referendum was called, in which more than 90 percent of the voters asked deafeningly for the end of the financing of party activity. But these gentlemen, temporarily deprived of illegal income, could not give up public funding as well, and the will expressed by the citizens was prostituted. Under the false definition of electoral redemption, ordinary activity was continued to be financed. The Court of Auditors then documented that the billions pocketed by the parties were four times the expenditure actually documented. Lies, lies, falsehood, intellectual dishonesty, high treason and vileness of the country. A Parliament passed the 1993 law, a President of the Republic promulgated it, twenty more years have passed since that new public funding, but it continues to steal. Italy is at the top of the European ranking for corruption: 60 billion per year. And don't tell me that there is funding in Europe: Italy is not Europe! In Europe the fake in the budget is a crime; if a politician receives an apartment as a gift, he resigns the next day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Italy is not Europe, and it will not be as long as the power is in your hands. You're anti-European. But so much, lies are your bread. President Letta, his deputy Alfano, Minister Quagliariello tell lies, write them via Twitter: "Abolished public funding to parties". Well, go read this vulgar law. These parties do not abolish anything, they replace: from direct public funding we switch to indirect public financing, because financing the parties with the IRPEF 2 per thousand is not going to allocate public resources? Isn't giving tax relief to donors co-financing parties with citizens' taxes? And then I think you should tell the Italians: for an ultrasound sometimes you have to wait six months, if you go privately you can deduct 19 percent of your health care costs. Well, if you donate to a party, you can deduct almost twice as much. How does that feel? Seriously, do you know anyone who would donate to a party? I say donate, that is free, without anything in return. We are not talking about EUR 2, EUR 10 or EUR 50, but about EUR 50,000, EUR 100,000 or EUR 300,000. Go and read the amendments tabled by the honourable Members on the maximum thresholds and the transparency threshold. Go and read who the funders of the political foundations are. Let's take one at random: the Big Bang Foundation. I'm not telling you who's referring: keep your curiosity, go and look for it and go and see from whom the funding comes, from which private companies and from which companies. Where's the disinterest? Do you remember Antonio Porzia, who exposed another lie of the President of the Letta Council, candidly admitting that he had financed it with 15,000 euros? He said he did it because he believed in him and his political project. Porzia has become the king of bingo halls and Letta has just guaranteed a penalty discount to gambling companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u18	I invite you to conclude, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u19	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I shall conclude. With this decree-law, you are legalizing the "presa per i fondoli" of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I ask the Italians: follow this debate, remember the names and surnames of those who sign the amendments, of those who vote against and in favour, try to understand and reason with your head! But let me ask you one more thing: do not stop voting. This story will have a happy ending, but change needs you as much as you are thirsting for change. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u20	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u21	Mr President, I see that political speculation continues, partly because it is shown that, being able to speak of an extremely serious subject, an entire system can be accused, putting everything together: this country, moreover, has seen everything. But if we really love the country, maybe we try to do the steering that it takes to channel it into the correct track. Even in the last parliamentary term there was talk of the thorny subject of public funding to parties. A median solution has been found (I do not know how to define it): it has been established that a drastic cut should be made and in the end the funding has been reduced to 50% of what was previously planned. On that occasion the North League felt it was time to close the game, and therefore all our action, even amending, was aimed at closing the game of public funding to the parties. Our amendments were not accepted and the text that the majority wanted to vote, namely the 50% reduction, remained. Without making much noise - let's see instead what the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement do, who are good at propaganda their activity - because in May 2012 there was an earthquake that shook the whole Emilia-Romagna, which still has not been able to get up completely, we of the North League thought we could do our part. We intended for that purpose the part of the contribution to which we thought it right to give up immediately and paid a cheque in favour of the earthquake-stricken municipalities. We did not do much propaganda, because we believe that those who do works of Christian charity and charity should not flag it to the four winds. This is the difference that characterizes us compared to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. What, then, does this measure propose? It still leaves us puzzled, because it does not face the bull taking it by the horns, but leaves a dilution of the contribution, so much so that perhaps in 2017 we will arrive at the end of the game. In fact, the measure provides for a 25% reduction, starting from 2014, a 50% reduction in 2015, a 75% reduction in 2016 until the complete abolition. We can therefore partially agree: we must claim the fact that we presented two measures in this matter long before the Government: the first signed by Vice President Calderoli in March 2013, which provided for the immediate abolition of funding, and the second that we presented as a parliamentary group in July last year, which basically provided for the immediate closure with public funding to the parties. The answer that the party and institutional system had to give, and that it has not been able to give, to a country in full crisis for years, with difficulties for what concerns the resources and the ability to manage, with Governments that have not been able to buffer all the emergencies, would have been the one, at least, to put itself under the spotlight and make an analysis of conscience, to give up everything to which it can give up. He cannot ask to renounce those who have reached the limits of renunciation, because the decline in domestic demand depends only on the inability of families to spend. Ergo, if families don't have money to spend, the economy notices itself. Therefore, we recover all resources from waste and from where it is possible to recover. Public funding for parties - in our opinion - must be the first issue to be put at the centre. Those who speak to you have experienced a varied period of policy management, so they can take their experience as an example. The North League was born in the 1990s. In each region it has had a slightly different evolution, but almost from all sides we have started with great enthusiasm and without a lira. We have seen that politics can be done without money. The League has grown over the years and made politics with zero. Then she managed to do it with ten and then did more or less the same things with a hundred. Where's the difference? The bigger the apparatuses, the more they have pierces, structures and superstructures of which you may not even notice, but for which perhaps a slimming cure is at this moment healthy. To colleagues who think that Christian Democracy has disappeared to Tangentopolis and to a judicial question, I say that certainly such facts have contributed, but Christian Democracy died when it failed to self-finance itself for alternative channels. The party that led and commanded this country for more than fifty years, at the moment when it could no longer finance its great omnivorous apparatus, which ate and consumed - a very powerful and rich apparatus that could oil every mechanism - died when the money was missing and could not pay even those who went to do turkey. Nobody moved anything at all, so we had to pay for every single action and every single component. Missing funding, the car is basically dead, no longer able to stand. Of course, after the judiciary, public opinion and the newspapers did the rest. Well, we have all more or less assessed that this is the time to move from a system of public funding to a system of free contribution of citizens. What are the pentastellated colleagues saying about it, if a person freely believes that it is right to support a political activity in which he believes and recognizes himself, I do not see why we should not allow this free and not forceful economic effort? And I do not see why we should not even encourage it by recognizing this kind of support which, I repeat, is free support. It is important, however, that everything should be extremely transparent, as it has to be, and I believe that the measure provides, in the sense that everything must be traceable, that it must not go through payments of cash, banking institutions and transfers. Basically, everything must be regular and, if you exceed a certain amount, it must also be published. If a person is willing to support his or her own party, he or she should not be ashamed if his or her name is later published as his or her supporter. I have read carefully the decree-law adopted by the Government that we are discussing, whose installation takes up very much our previous bill, which basically provided for a form to scale. What we have always considered, and which we continue to support, is the need to facilitate the small sums: those who provide small sums must, if we want, have more tax aid than those who give important sums, because this is how they really help the real parties, those who have a broad sharing by the citizens. The alternative is to fund the parties of the potentates, but they can already keep the parties in the forms they believe. What should be facilitated is indeed the small sums, to the extent that we had provided for those who provide a maximum of EUR 1,000 to be able to deduct as much as 75% of the figure. In any case, the text we are examining is also to scale, although the figures are partially different. Allow me, Mr President, to close with a small recommendation. The measure before us provided for a second opportunity, so that a person, in his tax return, could donate a maximum of 5 per thousand. The text before us speaks of 2 per thousand, even if that is not the problem; the problem, if anything, is to guarantee maximum coverage in this case. In fact, since the tax return covers almost all the population, having to or being able - because this is also a free decision - to allocate to a party 2 per thousand of the income resulting from its own declaration and having to identify a certain party by code or by another sign, we could, in fact, touch what should be a bastion of our democratic system, namely the secrecy of the vote. Finding, however, the right union between confidentiality and the possibility of dispensing, I think that this system can also stand. We wrote these rules - I repeat very proudly - almost a year ago; the government rewrote them in a partially different way, but we saw that the idea travels on the same track. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u23	Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am among the many who just applauded Senator Sposetti, and this applause must be consecutive. I turn to Senator Sposetti, to whom I say that I share 100% what he said: a sharing that means that we cannot vote in favour of this measure and that it is therefore necessary to vote against it. I say this openly to the Italians and Italians who are following us: neither I, of socialist and reformist culture, nor the Group to which I belong, will vote in favour of this measure, which cannot be approved for what Senator Sposetti said and, above all, for what the Fathers of the Homeland said, the constituent Fathers, who were mentioned earlier: I refer to Luigi Sturzo, Bobbio, Calamandrei, quoted by Senator Nencini. 12:08 a.m. (Follow Barani). It is enough to make these quotations, if we then ride a false populism that goes against Europe, that Europe of which we are constantly here to fill our mouths, finding ourselves saying that we want to be more pro-European than Europeanists. Let us then look at what happens in France, Spain, Germany and England. Let us pay attention to the words of the Socialist MEP Aguilar - as Senator Sposetti mentioned - when he says that the abolition of forms of public economic support would nullify the post-war progress made by Western democracies and would lead us not to guarantee equal opportunities in electoral competitions and democracy. But have you read what the 2009 Lisbon Treaty says about this? We signed it: we sign a treaty and then we are not consequential. But do you remember what the constituent Fathers wrote in articles 3, 49 and 51 of the Constitution, listed a moment ago by Senator Sposetti (I have already said that I share them)? If it is true - as it is true - that, in an unholy way, in 2001 someone modified Title V of Part II of the Constitution that we now want to repair, we in 2001 told you that it was a mistake to modify it and that this would bring the economic nefariousness that we have before our eyes every day. Senator Sposetti reminded me of something else, which impressed me very much and which I share. He said that private funding is a loan and that those who grant it later want it with interest. Senator Sposetti is right - I turn to Senator Giovanardi, who sits next to me and often says so - because in the Red Regions (Tuscany, Emilia, Marche, Umbria and Liguria) the cooperatives, after having financed the Democratic Party, want with interests, perhaps two figures, contracts in ASL, in mountain communities... [[Comments from Senators Fornaro and Lo Giudice.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u24	Senator Barani, I invite you to remain on the merits and not continue to press charges. Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u25	Barani (GAL). I know you know that. That's what Senator Spousetti said. That's what Sposetti said: private funding is needed - then - to have the interests, and you take the interests! [[Comments of Senators Fornaro and Cardinals]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u26	Please, Senator Barani. If you want, take the shorthand report and read exactly what Senator Spousetti said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u27	Please, Senator, go on. Barani (GAL). Yeah, that's what he said. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). It's fake! Barani (GAL). My colleague does not understand why he cannot understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Barani, don't insult your colleagues. [[Comments of Senators Fornaro and The Judge]] Please, Senator Barani, it's not fair to insult others. Barani (GAL). President, you must allow me to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Barani, go ahead and do your surgery without insulting any other senators at all. Barani (GAL). I'm sorry if you insulted someone who had the interests of those private mortgages that Senator Spousetti referred to. CARDINALI (PD). You insist! Barani (GAL). Senator Sposetti also spoke - I am beginning to conclude - of the figure of 1.51 cents that every citizen owes to public funding, in the electoral reimbursement (otherwise, it is not a public financing, because it is what is called electoral reimbursement, as happens in Spain, Germany, France and England). So, we believe that at the moment the Letta Government has done badly to adopt this decree-law, because it is riding the anti-politics. If you will allow me, I would close with a sentence, even a little'strong, that is quite in use in many Italian regions. It seems to me that with this provision we do a bit like that husband who finds his wife with another and who cuts off the so-called testicles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Barani, this is the third time I've taken it back on language. In this case he also offended women. Stop it, please, please. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Barani (GAL). Thank you, Madam President, but I do not think that this is an offensive way of saying it. The Italian sayings... president. Senator Barani, you know that the words should also be updated to respect the women and men of this country. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Please finish your speech. Barani (GAL). Madam President, I'm done. Of course, I do not agree with her because she has shown herself not to be an open culture at the moment, but there were no problems. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u28	Out of respect for those who are listening to us, I would like to greet the students and students of the Istituto comprentico Statale - Feltre-Zingarelli - in Foggia, present in the gallery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u29	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a measure which, for the umpteenth time, calls for the abolition of public funding to parties forgetting that, to be honest, this funding should have been abolished already for twenty years, causing popular referendums. After all these fine speeches, in my speech I want to offer you a glimpse of real life of what your failure has caused over the last twenty years to those citizens of whom we are the voice here. So I have to make a personal fuss. I come from the Roman Castles, in particular from Genzano, which is an example of the political decay of the last twenty years. Genzano was called the small Moscow, because from the post-war period until today it had had the highest percentage of left-wing votes, of which it had always been a thermometer, actually. I use the past because in the elections of 24 February last year, thanks to heaven, the 5 Star Movement made the overtaking, with 30% of votes achieved in the elections for both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. From the mayors from the post-war period, from a mayor who was also honourable, and who I am pleased to recall in this House (I am referring to Mr Gino Cesaroni), and a social policy that had left no one behind, then passed, through a change of course, to the worst representatives of today's clientelism. These representatives have squandered the legacy of struggles and commitments, creating a link between local policy, public administration, corruption, wild cementification, up to the trafficking of toxic waste of the last few days. Why am I telling you this? Because in this beautiful context he found his home, both physical and, so to speak, political, the famous Senator Lusi. Senator Lusi carried out his political activity, if you can say so, from our town. There are several properties in his name, either directly or through loans, including a pharaonic villa. The villa of Senator Lusi locally we call it "Villa Lusi". Camping in the highest area of the village and overlooking its beautiful park of hundreds of hectares on the mirror of Diana, Lake Nemi. A villa that has been bought, I remind you, with the money of the public funding of the party of the Margaret. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Inside there are precious marbles and, think, brass frames that the senator had difficulty having the local artisans build because the material was too expensive. Outside, the senator had, on the public sidewalk and at our expense, put missing columns, just like here in the Senate, perhaps to enshrine the detachment of his pharaonic kingdom from the people. In front of villa Lusi there is the entrance of the public school, which is located in a historic building, like that of Senator Lusi, but it is in the conditions in which all Italian schools are: dilapidated and resourceless. When you go to talk to the teachers you hear the lack of basic necessities: markers, toilet paper. Even at the last meetings, parents were asked to collect and sew curtains because the children could not see the board because of the reflection of the sun. This is the image that I want to propose to you: it is a contrast as terrible as it is symbolic. That's what you've been doing for the last 20 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure on the financing of parties, in fact, is destined to replicate, to multiply this social photograph: it is yet another mockery that you only need to keep tight, when you would have had the opportunity, by voting on our amendments, to return not only the money you have taken away from the people but also decency: to you and your proposal. Have the courage, for once, to detach yourselves from this policy, to cut the bridges with a policy that has plundered schools, small businesses, reducing the people to exhaustion. To do what? To build a feudal empire that still stands, but only for a short time, on the rights bestowed as favors in exchange for votes and despair. Prove, for once, that you are the new one who advances and not the old one who changed his jacket. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The donations from 100,000 euros are only legalized bribes; the political courses with reduced rates: a false ideology and a scam against the citizens. However, facilitated taxation will weigh on the pockets of citizens, schools and hospitals. Only if you have the courage to take the money away from politics now, and not in 2017, then the political commitment will return to being a mission. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u31	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, funding is a fundamental part of the political and institutional system: it is one of the instruments that modern democracies have taken to promote the participation and participation of all citizens in collective political choices. In all modern democracies, the discipline of the financing of politics is an expression of the way of understanding the relationship between rulers and rulers. Therefore, to decide to reform the financing of politics means to establish a model for the reform of politics and political parties, recipients of funding because of the function in the democratic game. Some form of public funding of politics exists in every democracy, generally mixed, public-private, and linked to a legislative discipline of parties. There is funding as a concrete guarantee that every citizen can access the political process on a level playing field, in accordance with the principle of equality, by contributing to the determination of national policy, as provided for in Article 49 of our Constitution. It is this guarantee of equal opportunity also in politics that distinguishes democratic regimes from liberal-oligarchic ones where, instead, the measure of access to politics is the census. Therefore, we know that funding feeds the mechanics of a democracy; it must be said, however, that a bad financing, that is, a financing configured in such a way as to allow policy not to provide the answers and reports it is required to give, reduces - and has reduced, in the Italian experience - the policy emblem of self-referentiality, alienates the elected from the electorate and becomes the greatest obstacle to the enlargement of participation and to the achievement of the objectives proper to the democratic system. Hence the decision to abolish direct public funding to parties, as intended and implemented since the 1970s, and to address the problem of the search for the necessary funds in society. Instead of direct public contributions, it is foreshadowed that the preferential financing of parties is the work of private individuals. Liberal disbursements are instruments that most legal systems know: ranging from tax breaks for citizens (France, Germany and the Netherlands) to the full deductibility of the amounts paid to acquire cards (Denmark). They are useful levers to push parties to stay in society, because they encourage them to seek economic support among private individuals as a sign of active and passionate participation in the political ideas they support. In this context, the controls, transparency and dissemination of the funding received, the pre-determination of the providers (natural and legal persons) and the levels of funding that can be received (the roofs) represent lintels of democracy to be set with great attention. The third element that connotes the installation of the measure, in fact, is the intention to condition the facilitation of private financing to the respect of the requirements of transparency and democracy internal to parties and movements. On each of these aspects, the Civic Choice Group for Italy has submitted amending proposals to the Commission and will return to some points during the examination of the measure. Of course, we must be aware of the meaning and implications of the choices we are making, since, from Jefferson onwards, the parties are the bodies of support in the mass electorate for the universalist constitutional building. You cannot make that choice by thinking then of wearing on this scaffolding the German or Spanish model. That is not the way to Berlin or Madrid, and we must be aware of the risks. Let me give you an example. Arianna Huffington, a well-known American opinionist, has launched "The Huffington Post" (a news site that quickly became the most read, linked and quoted media on the Internet) and has been included by "Time Magazine" in the list of the 100 most influential people in the world. Recently, he launched the alarm with a book entitled "Third World America" and wrote: If we don't correct our course, we could become a Third World nation, a place where there are only two classes: the rich... and all the others. Obviously Arianna Huffington proposes to restore the American dream and appeals to the can-do spirit of Americans, that is, the enterprising and self-confidence of Americans in the face of challenges. The final part of the book is dedicated to things to do. Among the proposals contained in the last chapter is one, whose title is "The mother of all reforms," which comes before all the others and which - with the air pulling from our parts - might even seem paradoxical. I quote: It is a classic paragraph 22: the best way to solve the pile of problems that America faces is through the democratic process, but the democratic process is seriously damaged. That is why the first step in stopping our inexorable transformation into a Third World America must be to free itself from the suffocating grip that the money of particular interests has on our policy. This must begin with a complete rethink of the way we finance our elections. The best way to restore the integrity of our government is through the full public funding of election campaigns. She is the mother of all reforms - the reform that makes all other reforms possible. After all, the one who pays is in charge. If anyone has to own politicians, it might as well be the American people. Think about it: no political donations, no PAC money, no ceaseless quest for money, no favors in exchange for money. No more lobbyists sitting in the Chamber and Senate offices literally intent on translating into custom-made loophole laws. No more tributes to the guilds crashed into huge spending measures. No more dangerous relaxations of security rules that can be traced back to electoral donations. Only candidates and elected in debt to anyone but voters. I drew this step, this example, because that of public funding, as you then conclude, is not a democratic or republican issue - it is a fundamental question about the type of democracy we want to have. Now, there is no doubt that in Italy the relationship between parties and democracy must change radically compared to that of the past, which has fallen into crisis. Its reconstruction in a substantially equal form is not feasible and is not desirable. The 20th century is behind us. In the old system and in the old experience, the possibility of choosing and deciding for the Government, with the corollary of responsibility, the exercise of the rights and duties of citizenship that this entails, was easily renounced. In exchange for this renunciation, belonging, identification in a party was exalted; it is derived from his ideology, his utopia, his morality. People were made citizens in the party and in the party, because they could not be made entirely in the State and in the State. Now identification and membership are no longer there. How do we respond to all this, if we do not exalt in a complete way the possibility of choice, the responsibility for choice, the exercise of citizenship in the State? It is not a technical-institutional issue, as it seems when we discuss reforms: it is an ethical-political issue. How do we regain and reactivate participation in politics, once the stimuli and impulses that have worked in the past have fallen? The way I see it, there are two wrong ways to stand up to this issue. There is a nostalgic way: it is noted that it is no longer possible to practice the old form of political participation, but it is believed that that form and its political system are the best; so we try to get as close as possible to that model, to save as many elements as possible of that experience. But this nostalgic way comes from a conservative and static vision. There's another wrong way, anti-politics. Anti-partying is an animal that is very easy to ride. I say this with the words of a scholar known and appreciated as Roberto Bin: it is a very serious mistake, at the root of which there is a wrong idea: the idea that politics does not cost and should not cost. To direct national politics is a kind of pastime that can be entrusted to an amateur. (...) On the other hand, we should be concerned about the preparation and selection of those who govern, and much, and invest what is needed to try to achieve reassuring results. How we should invest in the writings that make political decisions. (...) Because the real problem is the cost of deciding. To decide means to have adequate knowledge bases, to elaborate hypotheses, to compare solutions and to choose between them: all this cannot be replaced by improvisation, because it requires structures, analyses and procedures - and therefore costs. (...) There were publishing houses, institutes, foundations that published magazines and studies, promoted meetings and research, organized schools for management executives. They were used to develop ideas and policy guidelines. To know a party's line about a specific theme (school, nuclear energy, welfare or any other topic on the agenda) you knew what to consult. The party invested in the elaboration of its political lines, and these spread into peripheral structures, offering a secure address and sufficient cultural support to local leaders. Today, the journalist who asks a political exponent for opinion on any topic, arrives improvised answers, without any support. The interviewee expresses "his" opinion, even if he has no particular title to have one. (...) If we live today - this is Bin's opinion - in the deepest of economic crises, the responsibility is above all the absence of politics: the opening of markets to globalisation, the entry into the euro, the explosion of technology are epochal phenomena that politics - and therefore Italy - has not been able to deal with at the level of ideas. (...) Taking away the resources from politics has taken away the possibility of developing appropriate responses to the challenges of the country. Let us be honest: parties are essential to democracy, to participation. They are essential as structures that organize democracy and participation in it, but it is not true that the parties are only what they have been in Italy or are not, from the point of view of both the relationship with the citizens and the relationship with society and the State. Every vision which exalts the function of parties as such without further specifications is mystifying and which merely shows that there is no democracy without a plurality of parties. The relations that the parties have with the citizens, with society and with the State are decisive, and it is necessary that the relationship between the party and the citizens be radically changed in our country, in the sense of giving priority to the citizens and their rights, and the relationship between the party and the State, in the sense of completely eliminating every base of prevarication and occupation of the State by the parties. The democracy to which one must think in a complex and politically evolved society like the Italian one is a democracy with the parties, but it is not the system of parties as we have known it. This is why it is necessary to complete the reform of the political-institutional system, to define a new political-institutional system, of which financing is a decisive and fundamental component. It is necessary to define a new political-institutional system, because it has entered into crisis and the whole of representation and political regulation no longer works, and for non-quota reasons. And the reconstruction of an adequate system of representation cannot take place in the forms that have allowed it in the past, it cannot happen through the old "party system," because the social, cultural and historical premises, even international ones, to which that system has met, have failed. It is therefore far from institutional engineering: the new system of representation must incorporate the government factor and its responsibility, and not just ideological-social membership. That is why, as I see it, the question is still what was at the root of the 1993 referendum: is it the parties or the citizens who choose the government, and does that answer the parties or the citizens? It is also a fundamental issue with regard to the debate on reforms: because saying that it is the voters who choose does not put the parties out of play, but it means one important thing: it means moving from a political conception and practice based on a declaration and a choice of belonging to a political conception and practice based on the responsibility of choosing for the government of the country. That, I would like to stress, is what is at the heart of the debate on the electoral reform of the institutions. That is the logic behind this measure. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Filippin).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u34	Madam President, kind representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen: "All citizens have the right to join freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy." This provides for Article 49 of the Constitution, and with it the constituent Fathers show how they thought that it was essential to guarantee citizens the possibility of freely associating, to contribute to the protection and affirmation of democracy at that time, freedom that had to be guaranteed first and foremost by the strict regulation of the internal life of the parties. Unfortunately, however, the great lessons of the great men who gave democratic momentum and development to our country have also fallen into thin air and remained unheard for too many years. If we do not bravely address these issues, not only the political elections, but also the municipal, provincial and regional elections will be affected by corruption. Freedom will end with being chained to the corruption of political activity. This is a piece of the speech, admirably mentioned in the Chamber by Senator Sposetti, who in 1958 held Senator Luigi Sturzo in this Chamber. A serious vaticinium, which unfortunately was collected only too late: never a real regulation; the first financing law was done quickly in 1965 and under the pressure of what had happened. These courageous and responsible lessons today give way to an attitude which - I would not like to use too strong words - seems destructive to me, of an anti-politics that risks directly aiming at the balance of the parties, and I hope not at the balance of our democracy. Today we have to express this thought and also our vote on the rule on which the correct re-foundation of politics will probably depend. But attacking the illness of politics commits each of us to speaking with the words of truth. In fact, we risk continuing in a fashion that prevails in this phase of serious moral, social and economic decadence in which our country has been bogged down. This is because, once again, we are under the pressure or fear of having to demonstrate what we should be serenely aware of: decent and honest people, who want freely, with sacrifice and gratuitousness, to make a contribution to the democratic development of the country, as desired by the Constitution and by the constituent Fathers. In our country often when the house is attached the roof is rebuilt: this happened with Law No. 195 of 1974, when Piccoli dealt with public financing of the parties. It was not even then an enlightened momentum of those who wanted to give new rules and that served, but rather the putting a patch to a bad story started in 1965, responsible the Senator of Christian Democracy Trabucchi who, it was discovered, had facilitated the monopoly of the wholesalers of the banana market and then tobacco. And then another scandal in 1974, that of the oil tankers, in which the judiciary then believed that Parliament and its majority, made then by the tetraparty (Christian Democracy, Socialist Party, Social Democratic Party and Republican Party), had passed a law that favored the oilmakers preventing what has remained a limit still today of our country, namely the alternative development of energy also of nuclear. With the Piccoli law, the Parliament then intended to reassure the public that, through the support of the State to the parties, the parties would no longer need collusions, corruption and be freer from economic power. This forecast was balanced by the introduction of an obligation for the parties to advertise, i.e. the printing of their budgets in the newspapers and the delivery of the budget to the House, which should, even if it was not done for many years, have verified its correctness. It is therefore good to keep in mind, in order to draw some lessons from the experience of the past that always pursues us, what was the ratio from which the law on public financing of parties originated, because such an assessment could be very useful in our days, when more and more we talk about lobbying: we feel the lobbying around the neck, particularly powerful from an economic point of view and very powerful compared to the fragility of politics. This, among other things, risks falling more seriously on those political and popular realities that are essentially based on the passion of peripheral realities of our territory or on the free organization of regional experiences. That's what we should be aiming for, and that's what we should be looking at. I remind myself of the evolution of Europe united towards political union, towards a port called the Europe of the Regions, stopped by the economic and financial supremacy of countries such as Germany and France over the last four years, but which will be the definitive landing place that sees the re-foundation of a system of politics on a federal, regional basis, on the basis of responsibility and affinity with the prerogatives of the territories from which politics is promoted and in which politics can organize itself. I do not know whether what we are about to do today will facilitate a process of free organization of this kind. I should like to remind you of other moments: Tangentopolis and what followed, the repealing referendum of the radicals and the reorganization of legislation that allowed the parties to return to have a reasonable support, even if with a different name, linked to the electoral contributions. But one thing I want to remind you: in 1997, with Law No. 2, it was thought to allocate for the first time the IRPEF 4 per thousand to the financing of politics, among other things without distinguishing between the parties that would then distribute, according to the percentage of votes, i.e. the consensus obtained, the one that was a resource that citizens could generously give as an investment in a free form of politics. With that 4 per thousand nothing was collected, and it was already a phase in which the citizens bullied, not in a way organized by speculators or with purposes of exploitation, had asked, wanted and obtained. We come to 2012, when the Monti Government took a brave step with Law No 96: with a blow of acceptance it cut the funding to the parties bringing the contribution that exceeded 180 million, to 91 million (50% less). I would like to remind you that in France the State invests more in the freedom of politics and that in Germany it is invested three times as much. The rule at that stage was courageous, immediate, because it would have to draw the attention of free citizens to an act of courage that that government had done. And instead of what did he get back? The weakening, the ampling of a condition, that of the caste, launched also through books that have obtained millionaire collections; a caste in which all politics was invaded. We pursued a demonization of politics and of those who made it, as if all were clumsy and villainous to erase: an anti-politics that continues still; a leitmotif that risks making way, also because of some mistakes that we risk to commit, the free system of politics in this country, and therefore democracy, crushed - I would not exclude it - from great international interests that aim at destabilising, perhaps, our free democracy. But I am still thinking and wondering, in an industrial and entrepreneurial context as depressed as that of the Mezzogiorno, even if there were all the conditions, good will and freedom, how many would be those citizens or those free subjects or able to contribute freely to the financing of these parties. Let us consider the inequality in the IRPEF, which, unfortunately, is the other side of a medal of the despair of the Mezzogiorno of this country. What is the inequality of the IRPEF between the regions of this country, between the highly industrialized regions and those strongly depressed and in difficulty? We should think of the latter with an incisive and coordinated government action, instead of continuing to give an answer to those who ask for it with a regulatory disorder that reverses the parties, which still forgets the fundamental reformulation of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, the reorganization of local authorities and the law on the new electoral system, leading us to vote, before the other conditions, the financing of parties, whose physiognomy is still not clear in relation to the standardization of everything we have said. Unfortunately, this decree assures us only one thing: the parties will be able and will have to organize themselves only in an unequal way, with an increase of risks of permeability of external interests which, as said in this House in a truly important way by Senator Sposetti, will lead them to have to sign contracts for which they will have to respond. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling Obama's statement of October 2013 in which the President of the United States - the President of a nation, although in difficulty, free, democratic and rich - recalled two things. He referred first to the difficulties and obstacles encountered by the law of sociality, which is now in dire danger of being wrecked by American parliamentarians, he denounced Obama, who are children of the health and drug lobby. At the Obama Congress he denounced another aspect: he stated that it is necessary for them to review the US financing system, which today is too freely and, almost exclusively, in the hands of finance, private individuals. Let's avoid this risk, colleagues. Let us reflect with great responsibility on what this House is about to do about the financing of politics, so that the parties, in the form we know and which they will assume, are always free and can be the real selection gym of the new ruling class that this country inevitably needs. [[Applause from Senators Ferrara and Compagnone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Autonomous Group shares the content of this decree-law and also appreciates its method of approach, the new relationship between parties and citizens in a direct involvement which, on the one hand, guarantees the democratic nature of the parties and the transparency of the budgets, respect for the rules of democracy and accessibility to parties and, on the other hand, creates a relationship of specific responsibility with the so-called basis or with those who want to contribute to the financing of a party. However, I would also like to highlight two issues that are particularly important to me. The first was also mentioned in the first Commission, which, I stress, has worked hard on this draft law. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the contribution and willingness they have shown, in addition to President Finocchiaro. I believe that the parties are the basis of democracy in our country and I, who proudly have always belonged to a single party, the Trentino Tyrolean Autonomous Party (PATT), proudly claim this story. Our party was born in 1945 with ASAR, in 1949 it was born as a real autonomous party, and therefore almost 70 years of history: a history of battles of democracy of civilization, of battles in defense of the weakest, years in which our party held a constructive opposition, but in which it also paid a high price, and today it is decisive governing force within the Autonomous Province of Trento. I therefore do not accept, on behalf of all those who have made the history of my party, of all the founding fathers, of all those who have carried out its ideals and battles, to be delegitimized. This sort of creeping and horizontal delegitimization that affects all parties I cannot accept, on behalf, I repeat, of those who made the history of my party. The second aspect I want to highlight here is that there is a strong propensity to bureaucratize all relationships. Then we have to decide: it has rightly been decided to gradually abolish public funding, and we agree, but when private individuals are to support parties, they must be able to do so without so many constraints. It is right to make the budgets transparent, it is right to publish them on the Internet and in the newspapers, but we cannot put anyone who makes a contribution to the party to a whole range of constraints and rules, risking weighing down the entire bureaucratic structure of a party. If we have just said that we must be sober, that we must reduce the costs of politics, then we cannot create parties that must have a large number of employees, simplifications, auditors, because they must account for every euro paid and they must publish it on every site in the world. With this excess of transparency, we are in real danger of being stifled by bureaucracy. On this, even within the Commission, I have called for common sense, and in my opinion there is still something to be done, because we would not want that if a party makes a small mistake in transmitting a data and communicating it (because mistakes are possible) then we have to pay consequences for figures that are absolutely ludicrous. I must also say that from the original text we have moved on to a much more reductive text in the Commission. If 300,000 euros of maximum amount for the payments of a single taxpayer can be many, and we shared the reduction to 100,000 euros, the reduction from 70,000 euros to 20,000 euros, with a single rate, of the deductible amounts seems really excessive, and for this reason our Group has also tabled an amendment to increase this ceiling from 20,000 euros to 30,000 euros. We must be clear: if we abolish the public contribution, and we agree to do so, we must, however, allow private individuals, those who actually have responsibilities within a party, to contribute to its financing and to ensure that a party can carry out its activities. Our hope, therefore, is that we look at this bill taking into account certainly the difficult moment, the wave of anti-politics that affects our country, the climate of distrust, the negative evidence that has been provided by many parties and by many of their representatives, but that we do not make the whole grass a bundle, because we also realize that in the end on this new structure of the parties, on this new relationship between citizens and parties the future of Parliament is first and foremost played, but also the future of the institutions. I also claim the role of the so-called territorial parties, that is to say those that belong to a local experience, born from a strong territorial roots and that I believe today represent an important part of this country, because perhaps they are also the clearest and most precise response to anti-politics. In fact, a territorial party responds to its territory, is rooted in the territory and embodies the community spirit of how a territory organizes itself. They are parties that last over time, because they do not respond to particular moments, such as civic lists, or individual instances, they do not respond to microinterests or particular interests, but to more general interests. They are therefore also the most durable ones. Our party, for example, has not changed its symbol or its signature for exactly 60 years and, like the other territorial parties, should be an important example for a country that must rediscover the sense of proximity to the territory and the ability to be an emanation of it also in terms of responsibility, because the parties rightly have to respond to its own territory and its own voters, as well as to the whole country. I have no doubt, therefore, that what we have to conclude today (then the House will give the final vote) must be a good reform that guarantees everyone, but also guarantees democratic participation. On this new party structure and on this new relationship between parties and citizens, the goodness of the reforms that we are about to put in place and that must be done in a precise, serious and thorough manner and not only respond to electoral proclamations, which at the moment is also easy to do, but which risk doing more damage than achieving results. I believe that today we face a great responsibility, which is to restore the confidence of the citizens and of the country, and on this our ability will be played the challenge of the future of our country. It is up to us who represent politics in the institutions to be able to grasp this message positively, without denying anything, as far as I am concerned, about the history of my party and the rules to which it has always responded, but also asking for a collective effort, because this bad image that politics gives to the outside is detrimental to the serenity of the parties and to the effectiveness of what we decide in this House. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the question of the financing of politics and equal opportunities for all political formations and movements that want to engage in politics and present themselves at the elections is at the heart of the democratic issue. They are all the more so today, when we cannot fail to see that the relationship between citizens and institutions and political representation is at the root of the crisis - and we always say so, although obviously we do not draw the consequences from it in the measures taken. It is therefore clear that the debate on these issues - and I regret to say this today, in which we have also heard very interesting speeches - should not be dealt with in a bureaucratic way. In our view, this measure does not address in a positive way the crux of this crisis of representation, the difficulty of relations between citizens and institutions and the credibility of the parties. It does not address it in a way that responds to Article 49 of the Constitution. There is legislation in place concerning the statutes of parties and therefore a set of rules pertaining to the democracy of their internal life, but in my opinion it is not able to respond to what I believe to be one of the real issues, which is how the citizens who associate - having the right to associate freely, as Article 49 of the Constitution says - can participate in political life freely and with equal opportunities. So the decree before us, which has already been examined by the Chamber of Deputies, perhaps should have been preceded, or perhaps accompanied - or we could even change its title - by a discipline of the lobby, which exists in other countries. The decree, in fact, does not resolve the question of equal access, giving in reality supremacy, in all its parts, to the contributions coming from the societies and not from the individuals. So he doesn't do the task of rewarding individual citizens who make a contribution, except in the form of 2 per thousand. But it is a set of rules. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the ceiling for the contribution to the parties has rightly fallen to EUR 100,000, instead of EUR 300,000, and that of the societies remains at EUR 200,000. The ceiling of deductions is lowered, which can be increased to up to 20,000 euros. However, I would like to point out that the part concerning companies and companies is not touched at all. It can therefore lead to deduction of up to 100,000 euros. I would just like to mention these two examples to say that it is clear to everyone that this measure will ultimately make it easy to finance lobby interests and will not address the serious and real issue of how citizens are structured and organised and how they are financed. Why don't you face it? The parties - I am sorry that Senator Sposetti is not here at this moment, because his speech deserved a more in-depth discussion - have not wanted to see and understand the deep crisis that gradually accumulated in this country for decades. I remember the first referendum in 1978. At the time the referendum was voted together for the repeal of the Royal Law and for the financing of parties and the quorum was not reached. I remember the heavy campaign of denigration by all parties against those who had taken sides for the repeal of public funding. The same question was raised in 1993: with the referendum passing, with the aggression that takes place after Tangentopoli. We do not want to address today the issue - I am convinced of this - of how much it is necessary to intervene with a reform that perhaps makes available to the citizens, who want to freely associate themselves, a series of services, so as to give everyone the opportunity to access and pass through a series of services and not forms of financing. I'm from Rome and you have to tell me where you can find a free public room in this city to carry out an initiative or to organize a conference. There are no places, unless you have many resources, to be able to gather and organize; but this concerns the parties and even more the associations. Indeed, many institutions have even denied access to parties. I am very sorry that this debate, from the 1978 referendum onwards, did not want to address it. Yet, in the political debate of the country there were these pressures; there was a need to hold a serious debate, because the degenerations - as we have seen - were already present before the 1978 referendum, they were in 1993 and we continue to uncover them even today. We would have liked to address the issue of policy financing, give everyone the opportunity to participate, through the provision of a series of free services and giving everyone the opportunity to freely join and organize themselves to participate in elections or other forms of political life. The debate on this absolutely important and interesting issue did not want to be addressed. Public funding for parties is the theme on which the debate has always focused since 1978. We have perhaps now reached the lowest point of the citizens' confidence in politics and parties, especially because in recent years there has been no evidence of wanting to address the real problems of the country, the problems of the people, men and women, of the country, all the more so in this moment of crisis. The reform of public funding for parties outlined in this decree, which I do not think responds to this crisis of representation, is also closely linked to the reform of the electoral law, which is being discussed in the House of Deputies. Even this measure, in fact, through a series of operations to modify the electoral law, tends to sterilize the political life completely and to ensure that everything can converge on two parties, at most three - since the system today is more than anything else tripolar - sacrificing everything else; on the contrary, the votes must be taken, in order to bring them then to the major parties. This electoral reform rightly goes hand in hand with this decree which, in the end, will ensure that only the largest parties, those who respond to lobbying, will remain, which we also see operating here, through a series of amendments and measures. It is precisely the lobbyists who will have an interest in paying contributions, even without advertising. In this respect, I have tabled an amendment myself, since individual Members of Parliament and politicians who receive contributions of more than EUR 5,000 must not advertise it, which is a party obligation. We are therefore examining a number of rules - let us read them all in a row - which will ensure that only the larger, more or less interested, lobbyists will have the opportunity and interest to finance the parties. To the rest of politics - the one close to the citizens, to the people, to the men and women of this country - this decree says to arrange, since it has been decided, even with the electoral law, that that part of politics cannot make a contribution to the democracy of this country. The title of this measure should therefore be changed. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u39	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u40	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I would like to begin by reminding you that, in the course of the history of Republican Italy, the problem of the public financing of parties, but above all that of giving legal status and therefore legal responsibility to the parties, has been dealt with since 1958, with the proposal that Luigi Sturzo presented to the House on 16 December 1958. I would like to confine myself, given that time is tyrant, to some considerations that can be drawn from the speech given by Senator Sturzo, so as to frame the issue within a broader problem, which is not to respond to that part of the Italian citizens who today, saddened and vexed by taxes, the crisis and the lack of work, press with iconoclastic fury against politics and the parties. You see, if these classrooms do not become impervious to those who are social movements, you end up, not being legislators, but doing demagoguery. I have read this provision that the Government submits to us. Indeed - ahinoi - our role now is to amend or ratify decrees proposed by the Government in this House. In order to define one of the limits of democracy, I would remind you that, in a year, we have not yet been able to discuss a single law of parliamentary initiative. I would stress this to say that the crisis in politics and institutions does not arise from financing yes or from financing no, but from a wider need to reorder the institutional architecture of the State. Sturzo said: "We talk about moralizing public life (...). The first and most important measure must be to remove the serious accusation directed against parties and candidates of the misuse of money for electoral propaganda. The problem is wider than that of electoral spending; we now have a party structure whose expenditures increase from year to year so as to overcome any imagination. Such sums can come from unclean sources; they are never free and spontaneous offers of partners and sympathizers (...). I believe that funding is given by foreigners, by Italian industrialists, that is, even worse, by public bodies without specific registration in entry and exit registers, or they are derived from percentages in well combined (and not always clean) business, which makes them suspicious and interested. Sturzo continues: the doubt about the funding of the parties will also reverberate those of the candidates; and with much greater evidence if they are people often known to be poor luck, provincial professionals, if not young people still looking for family accommodation and convenient. In order to achieve these aims of public morality, it is necessary first of all to address the legal problem of the figure of the activities of the parties. The Constitution contains, in this regard, two fundamental provisions: Article 49, which states that "All citizens have the right to associate freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy" and Article 67, where it is written that "Every member of Parliament represents the nation and performs its duties without a mandate." In order to clarify the responsibility, it is necessary first of all that the party, while retaining the freedom that the citizen must have in its political activity, be legally recognizable and be able to assume, even before the law, its responsibilities. As you can see, this great man of liberal popularism had centered the problem, which at the time was to remove politics from the conditionings and the hidden financings and the politics to the conditioning of the great finance and the great industrial groups (states, parastatals or private ones that were) and reminded us that the real punctum dolens is the recognition of the legal figure of the party. In what nation has it ever been possible to use public or para-public money without anyone who has perceived it not only had to account for the correctness, publicity and transparency of the budgets? In this decree-law there are precise rules concerning the formation of the statute of political parties and a specific one which tends to guarantee respect for the internal democracy of parties, the correct selection of the ruling class. Well, do you think that without a third-party control it is enough to list the modalities within a party's statute? We live, unfortunately, in a nation that has authority of all shapes and nature. Why not think of an independent authority that requires parties to respect the statutory rules that they themselves have indicated in their statutes? The question is all here: as long as the political parties are, as they are, private associations, like the circle of free hunting or free bocciofila, a statute deposited or not with this or that commission, this or that governmental entity, we will continue to invoke a political morality left to the free will of those whom the party holds at that time. From this comes the degeneration of politics and political parties and therefore the indignation, the censorship of that part of the social community that thinks it can throw away the dirty water, made by the party-cracy, together with the child, made of political parties, the only form that in democracy can guarantee the direct osmosis between people and parliamentary institutions, between people and local institutions. I listened to the colleague of the 5 Star Movement who described some degenerative forms of the city of Genzano, not placing the difficulties of the Italian people on politics is little more than a joke. We have 2,100 billion euros of debt, the fruit of 40 years of laws without expense coverage, clientele, prebende, social shock absorbers, and not the result of political corruption. Tell jokes outside, the summary, the extreme synthesis, the epiphenomenon. There is also political corruption, but for 40 years the State has bestowed on the contemporaries, to guarantee their consent, laws, leggings, circulars, recognition of more abstruse rights, without having money in their pockets to do so. The crisis comes from this. It is wrong who is of the rush idea that to starve and strangle politics and condition parties by reducing them to little more than a Web emanation. He commits a sacrilege because he throws away the foundation of democracy. We can establish all forms of control over funding, budgets, the good use of public and private money. Until in this nation the parties will not be bodies governed by public law they will be in the hands of the ruling classes that become nomenclature. They will certainly make good use of money, but they will not make good use of participatory democracy. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u42	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the historical analysis where we have now come to the point where we are strongly proposing the revision of the mechanism for financing parties. I can also agree that today this is in terms of the demagogy imbued - as unfortunately we are now obliged to verify daily - with profound hypocrisy, even from these parliamentary benches. However, I would like to point out that we are in any case faced with a text that revises the financing mechanism for parties and shifts it from the part of the public subsidy to the part of the private grant, deciphering the first as the bitter fruit of an experience in which the possibility of drawing from public funds has been abused and the second as the need for parties to be spontaneously supported by their supporters. We have certainly married this address, placing also some stakes that bring as much as possible the final result to approve the financing of parties to norms that already preside to the financing of other social activities. In this way, the parties (we can say that this has been achieved on our proposal) will not be exempt from the IMU for their property; they will be assimilated to the NLUS, with regard to the tax deduction scheme; they will have to pay for the possibility, as far as facilities are concerned, of a ceiling that is certainly more contained than the original text, not exceeding EUR 100,000 per person providing, physical or legal; they will not be able to use public funding for training schools. The New Right Center Group has promoted a number of themes. However, the transitional phase remains an important issue. In fact, the shift from a highly public management (I cannot quote an exact figure, but to give an idea I stress that the delivery is 90% of public origin and 10% of private origin) to one with a 100% private delivery perhaps could harm some reality. In our view, we must have the courage to go beyond these concerns and establish that the new regime, once defined, will enter into force immediately. Otherwise we know that our country is constantly full of phases and transitional situations that become definitive or extendable. It is also true that in recent years important control factors have been introduced on the public expenditure of parties, from the point of view of third-party control activities, but also on those channels that flowed as funding to parties from other entities. I quote for all the example of the Senate of the Republic and the House of Deputies who in the last parliamentary term established an obligation for the parliamentary groups to adopt spending regulations, precisely in order to prevent flows destined for the primary activity of the parliamentary groups from being improperly destined to feed the propaganda or other expenses incurred directly by the parties. As far as rules can be laid down, I do not think that the world of politics can do without some of its characteristics. There are forms of hidden funding, but in the private sector; for example, the media are on the sidelines; but the media are on the sidelines all over the world. If we do zapping between television channels in the United States of America, we see clearly what is in favour of one party and what is in favour of another; I do not think this can be avoided. What should be avoided, however, in this area is that the media supported by public funding do so. There must be serious reflection on this, because we cannot allow publicly funded media, therefore from the state system or other public bodies, to demonstrate political inclinations both in time and in the way of exposing the issues and events of politics. Another problem remains, which I would have liked to have been dealt with in this area: the financing of trade unions. The demonization of the parties only moves the shooting on the parties, knowing instead that there is another pocket of public funding. The public does not only mean the direct provision of money to certain entities, but also the compulsory provision, through the rules, by citizens to some entities; this is what mainly happens with regard to the union. It is also a form of public-driven financing, and that should also be a reason why the use of these resources should be presented more transparently to the public. I certainly consider this regulatory moment a step forward not only towards transparency, but also towards reducing the public cost towards parties. I exclude the possibility of going back to old forms and I also exclude that today there can be reasons such as those that in the 19th-century liberal model, and then especially in the 20th-century, have led to a strong determination of public sector intervention in the financing of parties. The world changes, society evolves, and the parties will certainly find their structure precisely in the voluntary expression of solidarity on the part of the citizens. I also believe that this is only a step forward, because everything that comes from the public sector, therefore from the citizens' pockets, and it goes towards entities that should represent citizens by consensus groups, and not just parties, must be further channeled in terms of absolute transparency and - I would like to say upstream - also in terms of absolute consistency with the principles of freedom of each of us in actually wanting to contribute to these forms of public aggregation. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u43	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u46	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, Valentino, Pomellato, Gucci, Fendi, Bulgari, Telecom, Ferretti Yachts, Peroni, Perugina, Motta, Buitoni, Algida, Gancia and I could continue for hours: what do these great brands have in common that have done the history of Made in Italy? One thing: they're not Italian anymore. The Italy boutique has become a great outlet, where the foreign capitals crowd for a wild shopping along the boot looking for the great opportunity. Already in the 1970s, the USA was aiming for our excellences to make it business. Now, however, the geography of purchasing power has extended the borders embracing new players, such as Japan, China, Qatar, Korea, India; there are foreign investments amounting to 60 billion euros for the purchase of our family jewels, the result of the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs and the commitment and reliability of our workers, who by prize have an increasingly less certain job. Only in the last five years, according to Eurispes, about 500 brands are no longer Italian and this trend seems unstoppable. Cui prodest? Rhetorical question. Of course, Made in Italy belongs less and less to Italians. From pride, anti-crisis strategy, consolation that of Made in Italy has become a fairy tale less and less credible. Very recent news of the switch to the American Haworth of almost 60 percent Poltrona Frau spa. We are talking about an absolute excellence worldwide in the field of furniture, car and contract, a company that also produces many of the armchairs that you are so fond of; a centenary company that I particularly care about, having worked on it until last year, and of which I well know the lives and the value of its employees. But losing big industrial brands is not enough for us: we also sell our common goods and even the historical monuments that the whole world envies us. Even one of our national symbols, the Colosseum, according to rumors circulated recently in financial circles, seems to be ending up in foreign hands. In fact, it seems that the majority shareholder of the Dalian Wanda Group, China's largest real estate company, bought 53 percent of the company Coopculture Roma spa, the national manager of historical monuments. The Chinese magnate has undertaken to finance the restoration works in exchange for the total management of the monument and all its profits, so soon we will see posted on the walls of the Colosseum advertising posters written in Chinese, perhaps translated into Italian courtesy. While all of us are caught up in the palace diatribes, our entrepreneurs, rather than running the risk of continuing to do business in our country, prefer to sell and free resources to invest in more certain and less taxed financial products and while an increasingly short-sighted economic policy drives away solutions and kills the hopes of a country in agony, the big global holding companies rub their hands for the ease of so many good business. Soon we will be, if not forced to emigrate, guests at our home. Made in Italy has become "made in ANDAN, " an acronym that stands for "alternatively not by us." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u49	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I shall touch on a very particular problem which is that of the Kipoint. An application for a preliminary ruling from the Council of State on 31 January 2013 concerning PosteShop Spa - Franchising Division - Kipoint is pending at the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning its appeal to a decision by the Competition and Market Authority set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On 30 March 2010, the Competition and Market Authority considered that there was a case of misleading advertising in relation to advertising material released by PosteShop Spa in order to promote the Kipoint franchise network and prohibited further dissemination. In addition, the Authority also imposed a financial penalty of EUR 100,000 on the company. The information acquired from this investigation shows the deceptive nature of the messages released by PosteShop in the magazines "AZ Franchising" and "Millionaire" in 2008 and 2009 and on the various brochures and brochures published in those years. Kipoint Spa was founded in 2002 and is still today the network of franchise stores of SDA, Posteitalian Group, which operates as a service center. This resistance of PosteShop has something tragicomic and also surreal. Tragical, indeed truly tragic, is the closure of 102 points of Kipoint, which involved the heritage, resources and life of those guilty of being deceived by Poste. Surreal for the conditions of this original franchise model. I bring the voice of some citizens as it appeared in a daily newspaper in Abruzzo on the occasion of the meeting with the Association Codes, which has become spokesperson of 107 small entrepreneurs. Some examples: an entrepreneur from Puglia argues that: "it was not clear in the contract that a product selling it from us would cost much more than from Posteitaliana, for example the shipment of a package of the cost of 18 euros, from Posteitaliane costs 13 euros." Another entrepreneur, Stefania Breda, who had opened at Scafa, says: We lost 130,000 euros. Primiterra, who yesterday also filed a complaint with the Public Prosecutor of Pescara, would have unnecessarily invested 180,000 euros and is now unemployed. This can't remain silent. The managers of the Kipoint group claim that the closures of many points of sale are due to entrepreneurial inability, but many owners of the closed shops point out that already before they carried out the job of shippers and such activity was carried out with success. It is also exemplary that some outlets are still open and do not ship with SDA. It's like opening a Benetton store and not selling the goods of that brand. The CEO Scarpelli feels so much satisfaction for the 75 open shops but does not even feel a minimum of shame for the 100 closed stores. The pilot projects of Milan and Rome managed directly by the Kipoint group of the Italian Post Office have also been closed. Wasn't management so convenient? The Kipoint brand was one of the franchisers affiliated with the then Sviluppo Italia, but now it is no longer there. The Government needs to assess the rapid delivery of sufficient funds to enable the affected franchisees to meet their economic commitments, avoiding limit solutions, and for some also the sale of their only home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-187.ana.u50	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.36 p.m.
