ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u6	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the people who are certainly listening to us from outside, these are particular moments that we are living in these days. As a result, Madam President, of the very incessant events that occurred yesterday in the House of Deputies, where a colleague, the deputy Commissioner, Dambruoso, has vilely beaten a Member of the 5 Star Movement... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u7	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us complete the procedure. Please, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u8	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. These are evaluations that we could all do. We have discussed in the previous days how much of the terms can be adapted to the institutions or not, so please at this moment have the courtesy to listen to my speech, which wants to be absolutely calm. I would ask you, Madam President, to suspend the work for a couple of hours so that our Group can hold a meeting. At the same time, Madam President, and all the House, I am aware that this morning the 5 Star Movement filed a complaint for the indictment of the President of the Republic concerning the crime of attack on the Constitution. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u9	Senators, it is the intervention of a Parent who asked to speak: please listen, regardless of how much you share his opinion or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u10	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I repeat: we have filed the complaint for the indictment of the President of the Italian Republic. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u11	Senator Santangelo, you know there is a functional autonomy of the two rooms. Here we are in the Senate: the facts concerning the House must face them in the House. As regards your request as the Parent Company to suspend work for a meeting... [[Senator Santangelo approaches the microphone of his station]] . Excuse me, have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u12	Madam President, we are calling for a two-hour suspension not only for those facts, but for the situation that we are all living these days. I would remind you that this House, in other cases, has shown sensitivity to this, even when other groups have called for a longer suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u13	Senator Santangelo, also heard from the President of the Senate, in response to the request of a Parent Company, I suspend the session until 11 o'clock. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1058 already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative draft law of the Causi and others, Zanetti, Capezzone and others, Migliore and others. The speakers, Senators Marino Mauro Maria and Sciascia, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u15	Madam President, Mr Casero, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great satisfaction for me, for the co-rapporteur, Senator Sciascia, and for all my colleagues in the Finance and Treasury Committee to finally bring this measure to the door of the House. You do not perceive anything liberating in my words, even if colleagues in the 6th Commission could make different insinuations and easily ironic about the obstacles to achieving this goal, especially at a time when it was being seen, or rather, whenever it was being seen. This, however, is not the time for easy jokes. The draft law under consideration is the result of the rather complex and stratified process of a legislative initiative which began in the last parliamentary term. This initiative has largely deviated from the original design, but it has had a parliamentary path and external support, bearing witness to the great interest and importance of a non-episodic and non-fragmented intervention on the tax system. I like to give public credit here to the careful work carried out by Senators Barbolini and Sciascia in the previous legislature, which has made the text approved by the 6th Commission a fundamental reference point for what happened after. As is well known, the examination at the other branch of Parliament last summer was based on the text already adopted by the Chamber of Deputies and arrived at the Senate Chamber a few weeks before the dissolution of the 16th legislature. To sum up, I like to say this in the preamble, politics has never abandoned the reform yard which is now beginning its process in this House and which we are now finally taking to port. In saying this, I would like to make another fundamental consideration, which involves - and I stress this in particular - the method adopted by the parliamentary groups in the construction of the text. In the weeks when the overcoming of perfect bicameralism seems the objective undisputed and shared, I would like to emphasize that, at Constitution unchanged, the main accusations to the equal legislative procedure - that is, the long time, the endless shuttles and the inability to decide - have been overcome in fact with a continuous action of cross-cutting collaboration, between the Chamber and Senate Groups: a factual overcoming of equal bicameralism. This method allowed the House of Deputies to be dismissed from a widely shared text and the Commission to conclude the referent phase of the Senate by unanimously entrusting the rapporteurs with a mandate to report. This method also leads to the selectivity of the changes made in the Commission, which are also the result of collaborative work between the Government and all parliamentary forces. In this regard, I am convinced that the second passage to the House will confirm the text of the Senate quickly. One basic element needs to be clarified: the delegation has declaredly excluded interventions on the income tax of individuals, with a view to a reduction in the rates or a revision of the scales. This is clearly a political choice which must not weaken expectations of the generality of taxpayers, but which instead enhances its content in terms of selectivity and precision on certain issues. In other words, with respect to the reforms of the early 1970s, i.e. with respect to the interventions of the first Prodi Government, the reform is not of a structural nature of a wide ordinamental nature, since no new institutions are expected or the overcoming of existing regimes, and it has been excluded to revise the institutions that bear the levy of natural and legal persons. But, sharing the view that reducing the overall tax burden remains an unavoidable objective of growth-oriented maneuvers, I would like to emphasise that a number of issues have been selected in which the principles of simplification, rationalisation and coordination are themselves elements of support for the real economy. The delegation does not therefore have a palingenetic character, but it is of great importance, as evidenced also by the expectation of the operators, the commentators and the associations of category. I would like to stress the legal value of the reference contained in Articles 1, 3 and 53 of the Constitution, the Statute of the taxpayer, the Community legal system and fiscal federalism: the legal framework seems fundamental to define the scope for action that sees in fairness, transparency and support for growth the fundamental objectives. The simple list of the headings of the articles makes clear the selective, but strategic, nature of the issues that the delegation addresses, and then Senator Sciascia will focus on this. Just for example and paradigmatic I quote the revision of the land register of buildings. Fairness is in definitively overcoming the previous regime, adapting the determination of the impossibile to the changed conditions of the private real estate. This is - as is well known - the assumption on which real estate taxes operate. The events of the months and weeks in the matter of local tax on buildings testify to the urgency of the intervention. These are issues that the Finance Commission has already assessed in the last summer with the cognitive survey on real estate taxation, during which it was also aware that this reform will commit for a considerable period of time the administration involved, with additional expenses that have been provided for in the Stability Act. I quote the estimation and monitoring of tax evasion: the amount of information held by the financial administration must be valued and analysed in order not only to understand the dynamics and evasive cases, but also to reach a knowledge of the phenomenon in macroeconomic and financial terms, to be made available to the Government and Parliament. I quote the reordering of the provisions on tax avoidance. The stratification of tax concessions and the reduction of revenues they entail are a significant example of non-organic legislative production, which is also sensitive to requests from individual categories or micro-sectors, which requires a wide review, done with great courage, not so much and not only for revenue needs, but to rebuild the redistributive concept of tax rules, ensuring the permanence of viable and sustainable institutions (to families, low income holders, business initiatives, third sector) but reviewing outdated, uncoordinated, duplicated or excessive forms of aid. This is a necessary modernization work that has a strong impact... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u16	I apologize, Senator Marino, if I interrupt you, but I have to ask the senators to lower the tone of their voices, because the buzz is really annoying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u17	Please continue. MARINO Mauro Maria, rapporteur. Thank you, President. As I said, this is a necessary modernisation work, which also has a strong impact on individual taxpayers, but with a strategic redistributive and equitable approach that must be stressed. We must have the courage to put our hands on the so-called Ceriani report, where 720 items of fiscal expenditure, which Cuban 254 billion, represent a valid basin in order to find those resources that we need to set in motion the path of growth that I referred to at the beginning. This is why I also mention support for growth for the innovative nature of Article 11, which introduces tax on entrepreneurial income. Continuing in the wake of the aid to economic growth (ACE), the new form of taxation favours the strengthening of companies' assets. Finally, I would like to mention the simplification of requirements. It now belongs to the awareness of everyone and, in particular, of economic operators that tax compliance is burdensome, of curbing growth and, in any case, spoiled by inefficiencies even when the levy is small. The reduction and simplification of compliance, the massive use of technology, the full collaboration between the parties are the tools of the renewed relationship between tax and taxpayers. However, the game is also played on the front of the greater incisiveness of the controls and on the increase of the deterrent of the ascertaining action. These are the rules on sanctions, control, review of litigation and collection. On this plant, the Commission has made few and selected modifications, with a particular method: the identification by the Groups of amendments on which a specific study has been carried out, which has allowed a dialogue and a real comparison that has led to the acceptance and modification of some significant points. Among these, I note, as a new element (as I said, few, but selected amendments), the principle of the third-party tax court and the strengthening of the judicial protection of the taxpayer, the possible extension of the persons entitled to defend the taxpayer, before tax commissions and the extension to family associations of a possible comparison on the issues of tax evasion and the reorganization of the facilities. All this thanks to the atmosphere of listening that has been created in the Commission. Why will those who have not participated in the Commission's work say when listening? Because this is a time when prejudice usually prevails: I am biased against those who think differently from me. No: I listen as a fundamental condition for dialogue; dialogue as a fundamental condition for building together something that serves citizens: a magic word at the time of the French revolution, a symbol of equality and rights acquired in opposition to subjects. Today, however, all too often, it is vile in substance. This attitude has allowed us to operate on a truly reformative line and we have managed to do so in a climate of harmony where we did not think according to the majority categories - minority, center-left - center-right, but, thanks to everyone (I stress this), we reasond in the shared conviction of pursuing the common good, aware that this is the first significant measure of parliamentary origin of the legislature (the other measures were in the matter of anti-mafia, two ratifications of treaties, the bill on demolitions). This is how we demonstrate that Parliament must do Parliament and the Government the Government, by taking over the legislative function of Parliament and the executive power of the Government. I don't want these words to sound like a rebuke to the government. On the contrary, I would like to add my thanks to Deputy Minister Casero, who has constantly followed the examination of the measure, and to Councillor Ceriani, who together with Dr Bruschi and the offices of the Commission have done a very good job. Above all, however, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Casero for the commitment he has made in the Commission, with respect to a somewhat innovative path, so once the delegation has been approved there will be a moment of continuous confrontation between the Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in the drafting of the legislative decrees downstream. No one escapes that this will attribute a particular value to the agendas, which usually do not have all this importance; no one escapes that in this way we will have the opportunity to experience, as has been done in the attempt to overcome the bicameralism of equality, a better relationship between the House and the Senate. In the light of these considerations, we understand how another important opportunity is opened for Parliament and the Senate. It will be up to us to meet this challenge to achieve these goals. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII and PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u18	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law now commonly referred to as fiscal delegation returns to this House, where the final examination of a text already approved by the House of Deputies had begun in the previous parliamentary term - the XVI. The examination was not completed for the term of the legislature, even if the measure had received, after careful examination, the placet from the Finance Commission. In this legislature the provision has been taken up by the Chamber, which, after having unified several legislative proposals - Causi, Zanetti, Capezzone and others (all however originated from the previous text) - on 25 September 2013 approved the measure here under consideration. Approval - it must be noted - with the abstention of the 5 Star Movement and the approval of all - I emphasize all - the remaining Groups. I should like to point out here, before a few brief comments on the text, that this is a measure of particular importance, that has started its process already in 2011 and that it is expected both by entrepreneurs, citizens and financial administration itself. It is not a former novo, but, as noted also by authoritative commentators and by the Government itself, an extraordinary maintenance of our tax system, aimed at ensuring, first of all, the certainty of the law, so that everyone knows in advance the burdens to it, both from the asset point of view - the quantum - and from the procedural point of view, that is to say, the preventive knowledge of what must be done and, above all, when it has to be done, with the expectation that the delegated rules create simplification in the current tax system and the possibility to make more correct and transparent the tax trilatero relationship, consultants and taxpayers. All this without proceeding to the reform of the sanctioning system, where today, as pointed out recently by an illustrious lover of law (Professor Castaldo), the suspicion of evasion becomes a general rule, that is, in doubt a priori of the correctness of the taxpayer citizen and in considering him, of course unless otherwise proven, however outside the rules and, therefore, to prepare unfortunately also potentially limiting instruments of his personal freedom, waiting for clarification. Let me now turn to a few brief remarks on the rules of the measure. Article 1 delegates to the Government the task of issuing, within 12 months of the entry into force of the delegation, the necessary implementing decrees. It is a not indifferent burden for the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which will have to issue, during this period, no less than 14 decrees, some of particular complexity also from the technical point of view. These decrees will then have to be examined by the relevant parliamentary committees. Of particular importance, again in Article 1, the specific indication that delegation must necessarily be carried out in full compliance with the principles of the Taxpayer's Statute, with particular reference - I read - to compliance with the constraint of irretroactivity of the tax rules of tax disadvantage, the tax legislation dictated by the European Union, the rules on fiscal federalism and, finally, Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution. The peremptory indication of these fundamental provisions is to be hoped both by the proliferation of new tax cases not currently governed by any specific rule. Finally, but not least for this reason, the article provides for full compensation for the citizen-contributor between tax credits and tax debts borne by him. Articles 3 and 4 lay down rules for the estimation and monitoring of tax evasion. Point (e) of the first paragraph of Article 3 provides that measures to combat irregular transactions in tax terms, i.e. to facilitate the emergence of the so-called undeclared market, should also be introduced to combat interest among taxpayers. It is the result, highly positive, of a close confrontation that took place already in the previous legislature, of which Senator Barbolini was the first author. In short, it is a question of assigning to the taxpayer who requires the provision of services or supplies of goods by particular categories of operators, a tax bonus to be used to deduct the tax due. Exemplifying, it is therefore the attribution to multiple types of bonus operations today in place for building renovations. The exemplifying case study of the new contrast could be very wide including, first of all, small maintenance operations (electricity, hydraulics, etc.) for housing units. In Article 4, paragraph 3 is of non-negligible interest where it is established that the higher amounts incurred by combating tax evasion should be allocated to the reduction of taxation for both individuals and businesses. This brings us to Article 5, which, in my view, is of paramount importance, which regulates abuse of law and tax avoidance. In addition to the general principles referred to in Article 1, of which I would like once again to stress the reference to Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution, the need to coordinate legislation against abuse of law is explicitly called for by the recommendation of the European Commission No......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Point (a) of this Article provides that the abuse is to take place through the distorted use of legal instruments capable of obtaining tax savings. It is therefore clear that the delegation rules in question are fully in line with those proposed by the European Union. Corollary of the provisions dealt with here, but not of minor importance, the option granted to the taxpayer to carry out his own operation also choosing a way that involves, unlike the others, a saving of tax, but where the main reason for such choice is dictated by extra fiscal reasons of not small entities such as, for example, as indicated by the same norm, organizational requirements or that determine an improvement of the business activity. I would therefore like to refer to Articles 6 and 7. Article 6 provides for the introduction of new rules for improving the relationship between taxation and taxpayers, including the establishment, in larger companies, of particular internal bodies for the management and control of tax risks. For individual companies and individuals, Article 6 (3) provides for what has been promised for a long time, i.e. better assistance from the Financial Administration by providing for the sending of pre-compiled declarations and with attachments the tools to define the tax debt. Article 7 assigns to the legislator... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u20	Please, ladies and gentlemen, if you lower your voice a little, we can hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u21	SCIASCIA, rapporteur. Thank you, President. Article 7 gives the legislator extensive powers to simplify our tax system, such as the reorganisation and revision of tax systems with the elimination of unnecessary obligations. And here we hope for a massive simplification (or reduction) of the obligations on companies as tax substitutes. Article 8 provides for the delegation of powers for the review of both administrative and criminal penalties. On this last argument it is necessary first to specify - obviously from the delegated decrees - and to define with certainty, on the basis of the provisions already reported in the examination of the abuse of law, the border between the lawful operations and those sources of evasion and/or circumvention. It will then necessarily be revised, among other things, Article 4 of Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000 where the so-called unfaithful declaration is criminally sanctioned, a crime for which no fraudulent system is necessary since it refers to the drafting and presentation of a redditional declaration or VAT with active or passive elements (and on the term "fictitious") of more than 50,000 euros have been spent on ink rivers. Another case that will have to be reviewed is the one that provides for the doubling of the time limits of investigation (from 4 to 8 years) in the case of criminally relevant tax offences. Article 11 provides for a new form of taxation - as my colleague, Mr Marino, has already mentioned - for corporate income from individual companies and companies of persons. These incomes will no longer be subject to IRPEF (whose rate, I recall, is proportional to taxable income) but to a fixed rate tax such as IRES, which today is 27.5%. It goes without saying that the withdrawals made by the holders will always be subject to IRPEF with the usual rules. Lastly, the rule at the end of the measure, the one contained in Article 16, the first paragraph of which reads as follows: From the implementation of the delegation (...) there must be no new or greater burden on public finances, or an increase in the overall tax burden on taxpayers, a principle which I hope will never be put into nothing. I should like to end by thanking, as Mr Marino has done, all the members of the Commission and the members of the office who have worked hard. [[Applause from the Cardinal Senators, Carraro, Marino Mauro Maria and Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u24	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, at this moment the speaker is not the spokesman Michela Montevecchi: the voice you hear is that of all the people who yesterday felt offended because in this country the Constitution and the principles of democracy that inspire it have been violated. It was violated in two ways. Firstly, because it has been removed from a force of opposition, indeed, from the opposition forces, the power to say no, and if anything to cause a decree to lapse that, according to us, had no reason to pass through the discretion of part of the objectives contained in it and referred to Bankitalia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can I just ask you one thing? This concerns the other branch of Parliament. I say this out of fairness and mutual respect between us. Please continue. Montevecchi (M5S). Of course, Mr President, this is about the other branch of Parliament, but the Group is united: there is not the Senate Democratic Party Group and the Chamber Democratic Party Group; I believe that you, like us, feel like a United Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u25	We are for the sake of respect for the role of the two branches of Parliament. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u26	Montevecchi (M5S). The second moment in which this principle was violated was when a Member of the Italian Republic expressed all her anger in the face of the robbery that was carried out of the power to oppose and to be able to cause this decree to lapse. It has been done in an ignoble way: even this Member has been slapped, which is unacceptable, especially when we are now so close to a debate that has affected Parliament precisely about violence and bullying women. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u27	Senator, I listen to you with great respect, and you know it, as the House knows. You also know that the contexts in which violence is exercised should be known to all. You asked to speak on the order of business, so please comply with your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u28	Montevecchi (M5S). For all these reasons, and I come to the point, today the 5 Star Movement Group will not participate in the general discussion of the measure. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u30	Montevecchi (M5S). I would like to thank my fellow Members for their expressions of solidarity and for their in-depth reflection on what has happened. I hope that the media will not only report the events that have taken place in this House, but will also tell the Italians exactly what has happened and what will still be stolen from their pockets to save the banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group. The Senators of the M5S Group leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u31	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech. She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u32	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law consists of 16 articles which state certain general principles and procedures of delegation to the Government on the subject of taxation and, in particular, to make our system fairer, more transparent and more growth-oriented. Our tax system is certainly not fair, as the various studies carried out by countless tax evasion investigation commissions, the report on the results achieved in the fight against tax evasion (Annex II to the DEF 2013 Update Note) and the various reports of the Court of Auditors, not least that of the central control section of October 2013, show that in our country tax evasion and avoidance are very high and stratified a bit in all sectors, with the exclusion of employees and pensioners who are taxed at source. 11:35 a.m. (Follow-up). The tax delegation provides for interventions that will strengthen the fight against tax evasion, rationalising the discipline of tax assessment and litigation. Combating tax evasion means not only more revenue, but also more tax redistribution. In the past legislature, the then president of ISTAT Giovannini, presenting the final report on the activity of the working group on the unobserved economy and the financial flows established at the MEF, stated that the amount of value added produced in the area of the economic blackout is estimated for 2008 in a range of between 255 and 275 billion euros, i.e. between 16.3% and 17.5% of GDP. In the tax delegation, Article 3 provides for the establishment of a commission at the MEF to draw up an annual report on the unobserved economy and tax evasion. I am not against the committees of inquiry, but I would point out that already in the last legislature the Government had set up four working groups to prepare an inquiry into the draft law delegation for a reform of the tax system also to know the financial resources available. The problem is not to set up committees: the problem is to put into practice, or rather to turn into concrete measures what the work of the committees highlights. Annex II to the 2013 DEF already tells us which categories are declaring an abnormal business income. If we look at the study for example carried out for clusters, that is by classes, we see for example that the 325,000 farms controlled declare an annual income of enterprise in the years 2006-2007-2008-2009 less than 1.000 euros. The construction sector, with a population of controlled enterprises of 180,025 subjects, declares a business income in 2006-2007-2008-2009 less than 30,000 euros. What are we still looking for? The studies are already there, all you have to do is charge taxes to those who don't pay them. This is the problem of Italy: you do so many studies, you produce so much paper, but the taxes then always pay the same. Take another example: the list of customers and suppliers. It is a fundamental tool for controls and, above all, for data crossing. The list was established in 1972 and after 22 years, with the Berlusconi Government and Minister Tremonti, it was repealed. More than ten years' break with the spread of evasion and fraud. In 2006, with the Prodi Government, it was reinstated. In 2008, with the Berlusconi Government, it was abolished. The consequence is the deterioration of the spontaneous fulfillment, so much to induce the legislator in 2010 to a progressive revision regarding the choices of 2008 with contradictory and uncertain choices. In 2010 it is again eliminated, in 2011 it is returned, then, in 2012, to be confirmed by the Monti Government. In short, it is planned and abolished countless times (seven, if I am not mistaken, from 1994 to today) depending on the color of governments. The problem is that when the escape was abolished, it became stratospheric. For example, cross-references to the list of customers and suppliers have revealed that as far as the bonuses for building renovations and energy upgrading are concerned, there has been a significant tax evasion: more than EUR 1 billion of the highest tax alone, compared with 18,000 controlled positions, for at least one of the four tax periods from 2005 to 2008, by the recipients of credit transfers despite the planned payment. Among other things, the Court of Auditors tells us that a large part of these controls will not actually result in public finances, given the high number of inexpensive positions. The impression - and it is unfortunately not an impression - is that there is a clear political will not to make everyone pay taxes in a fair way and in accordance with their ability to contribute, but only to those who cannot fail to pay because they are taxed at source. With regard to Article 6 and mentoring for large taxpayers, there are some aspects that we need to take into account. The first is the multiplicity of control bodies and their lack of coordination. While in most countries the responsibility for the fiscal function is assigned to a single entity, in Italy the fiscal functions are divided and managed separately by different subjects: four Tax Agencies, the Finance Department, the Military Corps of the Finance Guard, Equitalia and SOGEI. The overlapping of so many different entities with not always clearly coordinated functions leads to many distortions, such as: the constant disruption of the conduct of ordinary business activities; lower organisational efficiency and higher costs for taxpayers; the difficulty of carrying out international comparisons; the lack of uniform data to assess the efficiency of management, due to the diversity of the information systems of the various institutions (marking of the Court of Auditors). For multinational companies, the complexity of the issues and the consequent commitment required in the control activity increase the risk that this activity, if not adequately coordinated, seriously hinders the carrying out of business activities. The second aspect to be considered is the advance notification of the verification and its duration. Multinationals are highly organised and proceduralised companies. The risk of concealing documents or, worse still, their alteration is minimal. As is the case abroad, tax control activities should be planned and, if repeated each year, they should be predictable about the start date, the closing date and about the topics under investigation. The duration should not exceed reasonable limits, well below the many current months of the checks. I will now talk about the difficulties of the Financial Administration's understanding of the business facts and the underlying reasons for the business choices. The operational issues affecting multinational companies are extremely complex: business choices depend on industrial assessments, competition policies, relations with authorities, market share development, raw material supply, marketing considerations, etc. The understanding of the underlying economic reasons for the business choices requires a high level of preparation and specialisation, which can only be acquired through an in-depth knowledge of the operational reality of multinational companies. As the OECD points out, it is difficult for a traditional tax audit to capture strategic and complex tax planning operations involving tax rules from different countries. Tax planning, intended as a search for the lower overall tax burden in full compliance with the law, is fully part of the company's orderly and sustainable growth and development strategy. Having said that, I think it is necessary, with regard to this issue, to create a dedicated channel for the interaction between tax and multinational companies, focusing all controls on large taxpayers in a single structure, made up of highly specialised staff, which exceeds the current multiplicity of control bodies. The dedicated structure should plan the control activities, making predictable date of start of control, duration and topics under investigation. In addition to the control activities, the dedicated structure should be alongside the multinational company in the preventive risk assessment, as well as tax opportunities, in order to minimise the risk of future disputes. This approach responds to the recommendations of international institutions on the introduction of new models of relationship between tax and multinational companies. Moreover, it is in line with the recent trend of reforms of national financial administrations, which recommends switching from organisational criteria based on the type of tax - direct tax offices, etc. - to functional criteria in which the type of taxpayer is relevant. To conclude, I believe that all those who pay taxes regularly would like a fairer, more transparent and growth-oriented tax system. I believe that the delegation we are debating is in the right direction, but let us not forget that the most important thing is the stability of the regulatory framework, in order to prevent unthought-out interventions from preventing the administration from continuing to act and using IT resources which is indispensable for effective action to combat tax evasion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u33	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u34	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u35	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an important measure is coming to this House for approval. I would like to stress the constructive work, which is the result of the contribution of all the Commissioners, in a climate of confrontation and participation that I have found very positive. I would like to stress this, in order to acknowledge the President of the Commission and all the components of the work carried out. The act that we are about to discuss and vote lays the foundations for a general reform of our tax system and, as effectively summarized by the name "Delegate to the Government with provisions for a fairer, more transparent and growth-oriented tax system," clearly define the principles that will have to inspire the Government in the enactment, within twelve months, of the implementing decrees of reform of the rules that currently regulate the relations between the State and taxpayers. The new tax system will be characterised by the uniformity of the tax obligation rules and the simplification of taxpayers' accounting and declarative obligations, generalizing the mechanism of compensation between tax credits that the taxpayer boasts and tax debts borne by the taxpayer. Entering the heart of the principles to which the delegated legislator must adhere, after a ten-year debate the so-called reform of the land register is introduced. The mother of all tax disparities is finally being addressed. The reform of the property register will eliminate the inequalities inherent in the current cadastral incomes that are no longer able to reflect the true market value of the property recorded, resulting in perverse effects in terms of the equity of the levy. The cadastral value will be determined taking into account the parameter represented by the square meter and no longer by the number of compartments. In compliance with fiscal federalism, the municipalities, owners of the revenue from the taxation of real estate and the institution closest to the real estate, will be involved in the process of revision of the annuities allowing them to expand the tax base of the single municipal tax (IUC), extending it to all those real estate recorded in the register, but not declared by the taxpayers. It should be borne in mind that the rule, in accordance with the principles of public expenditure control, clarifies that the review process must not generate more burdens and will consequently be carried out using existing structures and professionalism within public administrations. Important and innovative are the rules we have introduced on combating tax evasion and avoidance. Currently, a schizophrenic and non-homogeneous discipline makes the action against evasion and tax avoidance complex and ineffective. Article 3 provides that the Government will have to issue rules aimed at achieving the objectives of simplification and reduction of compliance, of legal certainty in the matter of tax assessment. The correct definition of the resources taken from the State budget due to the phenomena of tax evasion and avoidance will be the subject of a special report prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and discussed at the annual budgetary session. This innovation is the first step towards achieving that project, which the social partners have repeatedly urged, to devote the fruits of combating tax evasion to reducing tax levels. Indeed, the increased revenue, as explained in the delegation, will have to be allocated exclusively to the Fund for the structural reduction of the tax burden. In Article 5, we have dealt with the sensitive aspect of the abuse of law by introducing for the first time a clear definition of this case, as the Court of Cassation has repeatedly called for. That taxpayer who misuses legal instruments in a distorted manner in order to achieve tax savings will be sanctioned, even if such conduct is not contrary to any specific provision. In the face of a tightening of the rules aimed at forcing the taxpayer to behave in compliance with the legislative requirements, Article 7 introduced, first in legislative history, a rule aimed at reforming the current tax systems with a view to simplification, eliminating all unnecessary ones and not respecting the principle of proportionality. With the reform the taxpayer will have to face a tax more certain in its claims, but easier to understand and to respect. Already during the report on the activities carried out in the field of law enforcement by Equitalia, in the final text approved by the Senate Finance Committee, a number of proposals were listed, transposed by the Government, to which we acknowledge the sensitivity shown. Today the delegation makes them its own, as in the case of the tutoring governed by Article 6, which also provides for the possibility of widening the scope of the application of the installment of tax debts and the simplification of the administrative requirements to access it. In addition, in response to this particularly widespread phenomenon at a time of contraction of bank credit, taxpayers are provided with the possibility to request deferment of payment prior to the custody of the collection agent. After more than a five-year period of annual extensions, under Article 10 the delegation addressed the issue of the reform of the collection of local authorities, an important aspect in order to give full implementation to a fiscal federalism that is able to make local administrators responsible and to increase the resources available by the individual municipalities. In particular, the discipline of the tax injunction and of the ordinary procedures for the co-active collection of taxes is reviewed in order to adapt it to the characteristics of local taxes. In order to avoid what has happened recently with the crisis of the most important private operator in the local tax collection market, which has put in great difficulty over 500 municipalities, the procedures and requirements for the registration of dealers, as well as clear and certain rules on the definition of the amount due for the activity of ascertaining and collecting local taxes, have been revised. Unlike the past, a service contract will no longer be possible without the detailed definition of the specifications and in the absence of a check on the proper performance of the contract. Finally, the reform provides for rules that allow municipalities that decide to directly manage the collection and verification activity to be able to use the necessary professionalism and skills. One last aspect, but perhaps the most important, concerns the principles introduced by Article 11 on the taxation of corporate income. Corporate income, including those produced by individuals, currently subject to IRPEF (progressive tax), will be subject to a tax on entrepreneurial income, with a rate proportional to that currently in force for IRES. This intervention is fundamental in order to lay the foundations of a tax system that is actually oriented to growth and stimulates the development of productive activities. In addition, in order to promote self-entrepreneurship, new forms of relief schemes are envisaged, which will need to be coordinated with those currently in force. Finally, the new rules on the taxation of the proceeds of games. The new legislation provides for the adoption of a single text of the rules on games and a reordering of the collection. In addition to these rules, there is a strong protection of minors from the advertising of games, the contrast to the phenomena of ludopathy and advertising in the protected bands will no longer be possible. The municipalities will be involved in the granting of concessions and authorizations in order to allow a correct planning of the local location of the halls and their points of sale. Today we are going to introduce an important reform of our tax system having in mind the words of a great Italian economist, as well as far-sighted political constituent, Luigi Einaudi, that in launching the proposal for an extraordinary patrimony tax expressly clarified that "simplifying the tangle of income taxes is the essential condition for the investigations to cease to be a deception, indeed a farce. In order for taxpayers to be honest, it is necessary first of all to be honest with the State. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we cannot hide, despite the importance of this measure and this matter that we are going to deal with, that more than a major reform of the tax system we are in the presence of a reorganization of the system, an intervention that lies between ordinary maintenance and extraordinary maintenance, but that does not give us, even if it is positive and must be supported, it must be encouraged, it must be voted on, the image and the substance of a new way of being of the Financial Administration, of the tax in our country. We are not in the presence of a structural reform that reviews the relationship between the citizen and the tax system in depth. Of course, there are some important news about the land registry. I recall that this is twelve years after the Bassanini reform, which should have given the municipalities the instrument to have the resources with which to finance local services and I believe that remembering this, in the general marasma of the revisiting of the IMU, the establishment of the TASI or the TARI or the IUC and all these other acronyms that we have invented, is very relevant. It is also important for the subject of games to be re-disciplined. But we are not intervening on the fundamental aspects of our system, of a system that must see tax as an essential instrument for the services of the State and, at the same time, because public administration also competes, together with the private system, with the growth of the country, with the logic of development that must accompany it, with the possibility of truly being in a European context. I want to say that the IRPEF and IRAP are still there and there is no plan that can bring the issue of reducing the tax burden back to the centre of attention, together with reducing public expenditure and a reorganization of the tax system that puts the citizen at the centre. Even the instruments against tax evasion are not completely revised (but we consider the rules concerning the control of the activity of Equitalia important). In short, this measure, which we all expect, is important and has been approved by a large majority also in the House. There is political convergence so as not to upset it in relation to the initial approach. It is a useful tool, but we cannot present it as a tax reform, such as the epochal change in the relationship between the citizen and the state, linked to that particular aspect of the financing of the state that is the payment of taxes by the citizens. I repeat, therefore, that this is a useful extraordinary maintenance operation, which allows us to deal with some problems, but which does not mark the turning point that would be useful for all of us. I would therefore like to put forward the vote in favour of Citizen's Choice and, in the debate in this House, with the speeches of my fellow Senators, the Government and the rapporteur's replies, we will clarify our position even more clearly. But the judgment we make today in the Senate is similar to what we expressed in the House. The hope, with the favourable vote that we wish to express, is also that we can, not only in the implementation of this delegation but also in the next interventions of the Government, assume a much deeper reformist connotation, that puts the citizen and the State in an equal relationship and that it allows to reduce the tax burden, introducing a modern system of application of taxes and taxes in their complexity that favours development, growth and equity. [[Applause from Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u38	Senator Olivero is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u39	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the President, the rapporteurs and colleagues of the Commission for the work they have done to ensure that the text presented here today is even more appropriate to the needs, which are very urgent and strong in this area, of a measure that is up to the challenge. As far as the method adopted is concerned, I would like to point out that a significant step has been taken in relation to the so-called tax delegation. Both in the Chamber of Deputies and, above all, in the Senate, there has been a close confrontation to find suitable solutions among all the Groups, of majority and opposition, that today appear united in the confrontation, even if each of them has the desire to further improve this measure, which is legitimate thing. But we also know that the measure that we are examining today is a delegated law, and that therefore our task is not only to complete its analysis and approval in the next few days, but also to ensure that this brings to the hoped-for consequences indicated in the text itself. I believe - and the rapporteurs have already explained this very well - that today is at stake in this regard not only the credibility of those who have been extensors of the legislation, but of the entire political class, and certainly of this Parliament, which is preparing, with the so-called fiscal delegation, to approve the first measure of parliamentary origin, I would say of substance, of this legislature. And it is no coincidence - or at least it must not be for us - that it is a tax delegation, that is, a fundamental decisive element in the citizenship pact and in the relationship between citizens and institutions: the relationship with the State should be lived in a cooperative way and should not be considered instead as a stepmother or a subject that - as unfortunately we have seen so many times in recent months - does not take into account the characteristics of everyone, tends only to cut, remove, reduce and increase the difficulties and anxieties of citizens. I would like to stress that, with a view to ensuring that some elements of the content are at once nuclear, this measure presents some general characteristics of great importance, starting with the issue of simplification, which it naturally delegates to the Government, but on which it repeatedly returns and gives precise and precise indications. Let us think of simplification with respect to the rules and the subjects that must be monitored, but also of elements that in the common sense involve simplification, such as the compensation between credits and debts, which can immediately allow the citizen not to consider the State as a vexator, but as a friend. Well, there is a second element, namely the coordination of the various functions, which on several occasions comes back to the words of the measure and which represents an issue which - as we know - is deeply concerned with the Italian tax system, the result of the constant overlapping of laws that have been established over time. This measure of ours gives the Government the great possibility - and we hope that it does not fail to this appointment - to carry out a reorder that finally puts back hand to the many, too many overlaps and to the many areas of ambiguity. On the one hand, there is the possibility of circumvention and evasion without control, on the other hand, there are situations objectively vexatory to citizens, not only because of the great tax pressure, but also because of the bureaucratic pressure, which then - as we know well - also translates into economic disbursements, as well as a difficulty in carrying out their work on a daily basis. The text also proposes criteria of uniformity of fiscal discipline, in a system that - we have to admit, colleagues - has led over time to superimpose norm according to norm, ensuring that many times not with objective criteria, but because of the momentary situation in which individual measures were approved, undue inequalities were created between subject and subject, particularly hateful in the field of enterprises, where we have created - and this is precisely the dramatic data of our country - more and more difficulties to those who produced and created added value in the country, to the detriment of the possibility of growth of our Italy. The key points of this measure (revision of the land register, the fight against tax evasion in its various forms, the fight against the abuse of law and the avoidance, simplification, clarity and simplified procedures aimed at avoiding that the litigation - as we know it constantly today - does not last too long, often causing the collapse of healthy companies that boast imposing credits towards the public administration) are all elements that today can be addressed by the Government with clear indications from Parliament. And again, the review of the sanctioning system is equally important if - as I said in principle - we speak here of the citizenship pact. If this is not - as Senator Susta said - the measure of the turning point in the relationship between citizens and the state, it is certainly a measure that can sanction a change of perspective and offer the government - once again I would like to emphasize it - the possibility of starting a new phase, a change of pace from several parts desired also on the fiscal front. In this regard, I would like to focus on two last elements that are particularly close to my heart and which are dear to the people of Italy. Firstly, I am referring to the need for particular attention to be paid to businesses in this process (and I would add: especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been vexed in recent years and often put in a position to be unable to continue their activities). In the latter period we have had a huge number of examples of this. Businesses must see a friendly tax, a betting tax, which helps, proposes formulas for recovery and growth and, at the same time, pays different attention to the family subject. We introduced some rules in the Senate for the consultation of family associations. We wanted to give only one sign, which we hope the Government will take as a firm point in the revision. We need a family friendly tax, a tax which takes account of them as such, as a specific taxpayer. I believe that a great deal needs to be done about this. We are taillights in Europe in taxation for the family. We are absolutely in a position to intervene so that we do not continue to see the dramatic impoverishment of families, starting with the numerous ones. The Constitution imposes this on us, but above all it imposes on us the same thing as reality. Not looking at this challenge would be shortsighted today by the government and all of us. A second element, smaller, but not less important, with regard to public attention and the signal that we want to give to it, is the new taxation - already mentioned by some of our colleagues - on gambling. For a long time - and I would like to say, colleagues, for too long - we have imagined that gambling could be a useful support for public finances. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] And we have - ahinoi - encouraged in this direction. It is precisely at times of greatest crisis that we proposed new instruments in this field in order to be able to make cash for the State in order to guarantee services that are sometimes essential. In the reordering of the matter we will have to address a subject that we realize is really difficult, but indispensable: we must start to cover the ordinary costs of the state with other resources that are not those coming from gambling. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Candiani]] Otherwise we would never break the link between this revenue and the holding of public accounts, and in the end we will always give in to the blackmail of those who, on this, lucran, and in an immense way. In this regard, we have given the government the opportunity to act, but as a Parliament we are already committed to doing so, to be vigilant, attentive, even rigorous and, in many respects, extremely determined to grant nothing to those who do not give a service, but they put the country in difficulty. I would like to make these comments, and I would like to announce our strong support for the measure we are debating today and - as I have already said - my Group is already committed to following the process following its adoption with determination. We invite the Government to consider this a great, indeed a great opportunity to give a signal to the Italians: the same signal that today we want to give as Parliament - I would like to say in its entirety, majority and opposition, without divisions - in asking for a fairer tax, from which can share the united vision of the country around a new pact of citizenship. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and the Senators Susta and Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak because I was urged by the reports, which I have fully shared and which together have highlighted a first fact, namely the large majority that accompanied the vote in the Commission on this measure which, on the one hand, may represent the sharing of a text but, on the other hand, is the indicator of a delay that Parliament is experiencing in this matter. Why am I talking late? Some of the issues that have been highlighted by the rapporteurs, on which I will speak, are now in the attention of the legal debate, of the political debate, of the social debate for some years in our country. Finally, there is a union of intents in dealing with a fact: in our country there is not yet a proper relationship between citizen and tax. This is a statement which I would like to reiterate not so much from the point of view of the action of the tax authorities, the action of the agency of the income or of Equitalia, but for two orders of reasons the first of which is historical. There are some areas in our country where the State is still seen as an enemy, as a subject from which we must defend ourselves. However, this type of behaviour has been shared today in other social strata for the enormous taxation that contradicts what is very strong tax avoidance and evasion. We have a tax evasion testified. Just read the tax returns of recent years and see them broken down by social classes, by professional activities to realize how much those statements bring out what the Court of Auditors has been saying for years, namely that evasion is now more than 70, 80 billion euros. If this evasion, which emerges from those data, must be fought, it must be done in two ways. Firstly, the revenue agency should also carry out a verification activity with regard to those who are total evaders, whereas in fact most of the investigations concern taxpayers who are already in compliance with the tax system and are affected by small - minor or larger - imperfections. It is very important that in the measure the Government is delegated to develop a new discipline of tax avoidance and abuse of law. In fact, for almost 10 years in our country there has been a legal dispute with direct application, sometimes, by the Court of Cassation of the rules of Community law such as to result in a conflict of jurisprudence in the matter of abuse of law and tax avoidance. The action that is proposed therefore also needs to be taken in this respect, in order to give certainty to the citizen. It was then made by the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia, a hint not secondary to the contrast of interests. Beware: for 12 years I have continued the battle on this front. I believe that is the rule that can finally determine the confidence of citizens in the state. Only through a serious conflict of interests can we finally have a citizen who trusts the tax authorities. Why? Already in the last parliamentary term, some of us had tabled an amendment which took into account the possibility of deductibility from the taxable - not tax deduction, but deductibility from the taxable - of a percentage of the expenditure made for the household (e.g. 30%), in such a way as to create that conflict of interest with VAT, which should be brought back to 20%. Why the Contrast of Interest? Because this determines the citizen's confidence in tax; it involves the joy of paying a certain bill with the awareness of being able to have a serious relationship with the certainty, in the overall relationship of citizens, that we pay everyone, but that we will all pay less taxes. This logic led us, in the last parliamentary term, to find an amendment whereby we had to introduce an obligation for all holders of VAT to have an optical reader, so as to overcome the difficulty that, since 2001, has always been flagged against the contrast of interests: I am referring to the possibility that false invoices or receipts will be used. On the other hand, if we were to adopt a system similar to that currently in use in the pharmacies with the optical reader and with the possibility, therefore, of immediate registration through a link with the revenue agencies, on the expenditure made and on the collection (as well as on those who carried out the one and the other), we would have the possibility to avoid any instrumental use of false documents and, at the same time, to guarantee a greater income. Finally, I come to a point concerning tax litigation, namely Article 10. I believe that we all need to take account of a fact about tax litigation before we deal with the subject of the amendment. In our panorama of civil, administrative and criminal litigation we have a figure that has been registered for some years now. Tax litigation is the only one in line - 90% of cases in Italy - with the constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of the trial. Therefore, the reference in the delegation to a better distribution of the judges of the tax commissions in order to guarantee that reasonable duration of the trial throughout the territory of the State, I agree perfectly. I have some difficulty in accepting the hypothesis of a monocratic organ, albeit, as you say, on matters of minor importance. People's lives can be affected by the question of a minor entity as the question of a large economic entity, because to know what the impact is, the social conditions of each must be assessed. Why am I against the monocratic organ? I am against this because the experiments we have had in the civil process have not led to an increase in productivity, but at the same time there is a fact. You, the rapporteurs, give me a lesson (and that is why I will not table any amendments). I hope, however, that you will be tabling a corrective amendment to establish that the collegiate body is necessary in tax matters, since it is a process that needs a plurality of knowledge for what are the typical characteristics of taxation. I believe that with some corrective measures, the opportunity should be taken to ensure that the administration of tax justice (with particular reference to administrative staff and the Council of Presidents for Judges) takes away all the administration that concerns the third party of the judicial body as a whole, separating it from the administration of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and, if it is to remain in that Ministry, becomes an autonomous body and, therefore, not an agency, but an office of direct cooperation with the Minister, so as to be completely foreign to the administration of the Ministry of Economy and Finance also from the point of view of administrative staff. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to thank on behalf of my Group the rapporteurs and members of the various Commissions, but above all the 6th Commission. I have taken part in a number of meetings of the Commission's work and I have to take note of a very serious, rigorous and detailed work. The work done, which has been recognised in the reports, certainly deserves our appreciation. We expect a lot from this delegation law that addresses many issues. As other colleagues have also pointed out, this is a selective delegation law which affects certain areas and certain strategic objectives. The revision of the tax system and the need for simplification have been mentioned for many years now. Within the law there is talk of the non-overlapping of the rules and there are many issues on which we focus; compensation, the need for single texts, simplified regimes, especially for small companies, the revision of the deductibility regime, energy and environmental taxation, on which I have had the opportunity to table amendments and agendas, which have been partially transposed by the Commissions. There is also a new relationship between tax and the taxpayer and, therefore, the re-evaluation of the figure of the taxpayer's guarantor which had almost been called into question in the law of stability. I would remind you that we had tabled amendments on that occasion, together with other colleagues, in order to re-evaluate their importance. I would also like to express my appreciation for wanting to regulate the subject of ludopathies and the authorisation for public games. I would also like to remind you of the initiatives carried out by the Autonomous Province of Trento, which is far ahead in this field and in the field of prevention and the fight against ludopathies, has promoted many very effective initiatives. I would also like to stress the importance of defining the relationship with local authorities and of recognising the autonomy of local authorities in the application of tax rules, with some room for manoeuvre in moving within the complex tax system. But that is not all I want to do. As other Members have done, I would like to focus on the effect this tax delegation will have. We expect a lot from this legislation and we hope that the enactment of the decrees of implementation will be timely, fast and that it will take place through a comparison within the Commissions and Parliament, and that it can really give a turning point to the Italian tax system, which absolutely must be modified. We have always said that too many laws are being made in Italy, and this, apart from the over-production of rules, creates great confusion in the tax field. We all talk daily to business representatives, taxpayers, tax collectors, and we know that we have reached a level of absolute intolerance. Nobody understands what rules need to be complied with, what the deadlines are. If we think about the legislative work that this Parliament has recently carried out in terms of IMU, for which we naturally take full responsibility, we realize that instead of simplifying the procedures for the taxpayer we have created a huge confusion for which today we no longer know how much we have to pay and who has to pay. Each circular produced by the offices of the Revenue Agency consists of at least 40 pages: there is no coordination between different bodies, there is no unity in interpretation. Each law puts a different term, there is a different deadline for each procedure and the taxpayer really struggles to understand exactly how much and how much he has to pay. Hence the urgent need to simplify seriously, trying to create unique texts with uniform rules and intervening in a non-fragmented way. The deadlines and the entry into force of identical rules must also be unified. The same rules should enter into force on the same day, not one 15 days before, the other the month after, and the month after another: each time a new circular is required, a new explanation is needed. I really hope that this bill of tax delegation will be used by the Government to finally achieve a real fiscal simplification, unique, that can be understood by everyone and above all applied in a simple and clear way allowing the taxpayer, when he has to do so, to succeed in opposing, appealing and obtaining justice. I do not want to invoke the Vanoni reform or the reform of the 1970s, but I believe that this kind of reform is more or less necessary. In terms of simplification, I have made a number of proposals as a senator, and we have made them as a Group. For example, if companies are to have JEPs today and have to communicate through JEPs, we do not understand why the public body continues to send green recommended ones. The public body must also use JEP and communicate in this way. It would be a saving of time, of cost and one would be sure of communication. We have also tabled other amendments on corporate income: businesses must be able to deduct the costs for the past too. In fact, if companies bear costs, they must be able to be deducted from income, otherwise the company finds itself paying unsustainable taxes. With regard to the revision of the registration taxes, I would remind you that the Monti Government had eliminated all exemptions in the area of registration taxes. Some were also right, and undoubtedly the matter had to be reformed. But cutting linearly is never good. Think, for example, that the taxation of registration tax has been restored for all expropriations made for public utility, for public lotteries. Today there are municipalities that do not know how to bear the costs of registration tax on expropriation to achieve a road that, as we know, imposes hundreds of expropriations. That's 1,000 euros per expropriation. Not to mention servitude and rights. Every time it is necessary to pay 1,000 euros for which in the end even the private one renounces to register and to regularize a servitude in order not to pay a tax that is actually excessive. I would also like to talk about registration taxes on separations. Some of them are right. No one denies that separations are sometimes used to avoid paying the registration tax, but when it is actually a shared and shared asset, it is not possible to pay the same fee twice. I also want to talk about timeliness, because when you ask a question to the financial administration they cannot spend months before they have an answer; I do not say three hours, but I believe that within a few days a financial administration should be able to answer a question put by an accountant or a taxpayer. The problem is that that administration, before giving an answer, must consult another hundred offices and read circulars and circulars to understand the right interpretation to give. I hope that we all realize how confusing and also unbearable Italian tax legislation has become. President Letta himself, who has spoken in this House on several occasions, has pointed this out, confirming that this Government realizes that companies cannot be further taxed. Today, in fact, we have reached a level of taxation which can become unbearable (for many people it already is) and which risks, as a result, depressing companies. We all know that if the economy goes into further depression, the crisis becomes more acute and the entire social system of the state collapses. Surely the societies of convenience must be rethought. In particular, we cannot attribute income that is neither real nor sustainable. As for the field studies, the Cassation intervened and specified that they cannot be applied in the same way for all, but that it must also justify and justify the contestation of certain declarations. But it is fitting that this idea...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u44	Senator Panizza, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u45	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I shall conclude, Mr President. I was saying, the idea that the tax authorities should approach the taxpayer and understand the needs and peculiarities of the taxpayer is really the key to having a different relationship with the citizens. In order to facilitate the emergence and to prevent citizens and businesses from escaping, a change is needed. I would like to be able to think that even in Italy, as in the countries of Central Europe, in particular in the German areas, we can unify the declarations and that the citizen can go to the offices of the Revenue Agency, agree what he has to pay, discuss with the official of his income and once paid that he is in place and can sleep quietly, convinced that he has done his duty. I hope that this bill will serve once and for all to restore confidence to citizens and taxpayers. Today Italy really needs it. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u46	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time when this bill arrives in this House, perhaps we should all, in addition to thanking each other, thank the many good citizens of this country who, not more than a week ago, have had to go and pay a tax in the most general confusion, have had to file and have had to endure absolutely unqualifiable situations. In the uncertainty about everything, with the rules that were constantly changing and the agencies in charge that could not even send the exact F24 (when they sent them) we should appreciate the many, many (are still the majority) decent citizens of this country, who basically contribute to this state, who go to submit to endless ranks in order to be able to do their tax duty. On the contrary, compared to what we consider to be one of the worst evils of our country, namely tax evasion, which is an instrument and cause of inequalities and the unfair distribution of income, which means that we are faced with the fact that the almost total burden of tax contribution is in the hands of employees and therefore to the majority of people who perhaps live at this time the most difficult situation. I was saying, an instrument of inequality, because we cannot forget - you, President Marino, you know well - what has happened, even in recent years, in the redistribution, unfortunately at the top, of wealth. The data of the Bank of Italy, which each of us often cites, are frightening, considering that 10% of Italian citizens possess almost 50% of the wealth. Returning to the escape, today is also an interesting day in the reading of newspapers. I have here the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" which brings a full-page interview to Mrs Armellini, with her 1,234 apartments; well it seems that in a while the City will have to apologize to her. Those who are not from Rome should know what the Armellini are and what they have also represented in terms of real estate contribution in building among the worst neighborhoods of our city. Returning to the data on evasion, it costs our country more than 180 billion euros a year, a figure that places Italy - and this is a heavy record to bear - in the first place ever in the European Union. There are no official statistical studies at European level, since they are illegal, but in the institutions of the European Union reference is made to the study signed by the British Richard Murphy, Director of Tax Research, commissioned by the Social Democratic Group of the European Parliament. The study estimates that in the European Union, based on the 2009 GDP data, tax evasion is EUR 860 billion per year, to which should be added 150 billion circumventions for a total of more than 1,000 billion per year. The figures on tax evasion alone see Italy first, with more than 180 billion euros, followed - to say that the issue alas does not only concern Italy - by Germany, with 159 billion, and France. Then followed are Great Britain and Spain. This data is obviously not new to us. Last October, the President of the Court of Auditors, citing OECD data during a hearing at the Finance Committee in the Senate, spoke of an Italy that ranks in the top international ranking of evasion, behind only Turkey and Mexico. This is not only because of capital, but also because of a chronic inability - Mrs Armellini remembers - to deploy an effective control system, very often in tax havens. To have an example of what I say suffice to think that 53 percent of the leases, often unregistered, for example of the villas of Porto Cervo, of Forte dei Marmi, of Porto Rotondo, of Capri, of Sabaudia, of Panarea, of Portofino, of Taormina and of Amalfi, are registered to pensioners who are also owners of the social card, a pretence of unknown non-taxpayers. So tax evasion flourishes, and we will be able to bring many other examples. The Revenue Agency has estimated that evasion particularly concerns the service sector and the construction sector, where it reaches 60% of income. It is higher in the South, where it reaches 50%: twice the North in relative terms, but the North prevails in absolute terms. As for the relationship between tax and taxpayers, Italy has these data, which tell us about a disease that is not only due to the high tax burden. This is also the case, but the high tax burden depends on the enormous amount of evasion and avoidance, little and badly fought, which only affects honest taxpayers, those I said at the beginning and which perhaps we should thank, an increasingly unbearable tax burden. The data I wanted to refer to here tell us that perhaps we could make an extra effort in the delegation and arrive at an organic reform of taxation in Italy, for example to introduce, even experimentally, measures of contrast of interests, as happens in the United States. So perhaps we could have done more; of course I say this to the majority, even if this delegation was born with another majority, which then, in the meantime, has changed a bit. The fact that it was born with that majority constituted a very strong political limit in the choices made, choices that we would have liked much stronger and directed towards structural reform, to put order in the confused regulatory landscape and to improve the relationship between taxpayer and tax administration. Above all, we would have liked this reform to work in an incontrovertible way towards greater equity in the distribution of the tax burden: this is the political, structural and substantial issue that we have before us on tax issues. The text of the delegation does not appear as a radical regulatory intervention, nor does it have the ambition to reform the entire Italian tax system. It only intervenes to correct and overcome some critical aspects of the tax system, also found in a report of the International Monetary Fund, but not reaching, in our opinion, the aim of designing a tax system functional to growth and equity, so as to allow our country to overcome some historical backwardness, also in comparison with the experiences of the most advanced and modern systems of other countries. We therefore believe that once again we are faced with a missed opportunity: the opportunity to carry out a reform that is at the heart of the problem. This delegation therefore does not represent that structural and dynamic change in our tax system that we - I hope many in this House - wanted: a tax system projected towards a progressive correction of its distortions and injustices (because the figure of our system is that of serious distortions and injustices), which we had somehow tried to indicate with the presentation of our bill. It is unacceptable, in fact, that, while on the one hand they are hitting the tax machine and the workers' savage cuts (blocking contracts and wages), on the other hand, one does not have the courage - there is not even this Parliament - to put in hand a reform of the tax system that can really exploit in full the potential inherent in a truly fair tax lever. Tax relief - as you know, Madam President - is not only an element based on what our Constitution (never respected) requires us, namely progressiveness, but it is a very strong element. The tax lever, which is well used, can be an element of strong impulse and also of modification of some choices, for example on the same model of development (I will then also focus on the issue of environmental taxation, which is particularly close to our heart). We therefore think that there are certainly certain aspects of positivity, which we do not deny and indeed stress. However, there is this gap, of those who did not want to operate in a more structural way on this very issue. A series of elements were added to the Chamber, confirmed during the Senate exam. I am thinking, for example, of the fund aimed at combating pathological gambling, also aimed, through changes in the fiscal discipline of public games, at increasing the state resources. But, unfortunately, while that provision was approved, a sanatoria was launched at the same time. In this case too, therefore, in the tax delegation, in addition to positive elements, there are other profiles in clear contradiction, which in fact operate in another sense. We certainly cannot fail to share the intention of the text to intervene on certain aspects, including structural aspects of the tax system, in order to direct it more towards progressive economic growth. One of the most important aspects is the introduction of new forms of taxation aimed at preserving and encouraging a kind of conversion to more advanced ecological models, which would do so much good for our economy. In this respect, Mr President, I note that in the Commission's work - I do not know why - the decision to make amendments to Article 15 has finally been taken, by deleting the part that concerned the tax purpose linked to preserving and guaranteeing the environmental balance, and only the choice has been made to direct the market towards sustainable consumption and production methods, which are not contradictory, as environmental balance is one of the issues that can best respond to sound environmental taxation. The tax system is one of the privileged fields with which it can affect to promote the use of energy and products deriving from renewable sources. In this respect, environmental taxes and ecotaxes are an absolutely fundamental tool. As you can see, we do not hesitate to say that there are some positive parts. I will also return to this with regard to the strengthening of the fight against tax evasion and the provision of the codification of the abuse of law with a new system of rules which distinguishes the legitimate tax savings from the undue tax advantage. There are, of course, some aspects that we appreciate and that we have contributed to the House's inclusion. The fact remains that we believe that this is a missed opportunity: the delegation should in fact have put in place a structural reform, because this is the real issue that today would allow us to respond to the great injustices and give a strong impetus to the economic recovery of our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u49	Madam President, as other Members have pointed out, we are faced with a very soft measure which does not present so many concrete, important and real things to be addressed. This is an attempt at reform, but it was actually hoped for something more. However, since we can only expect these measures from this Government, then we think about what is being offered to us. Certainly the Italians expected something more and deserved something more, but in any case this corrective intervention of critical aspects of the tax system to make taxation more favourable to growth and equity put some arguments on the table. These are important topics, such as the revision of the building register, the rules on tax evasion and erosion, a regulation on abuse of law and tax avoidance, simplification of taxation, collection by local authorities and taxation on public games. These are important issues in the intentions which would like to improve and simplify life for our fellow citizens and, above all, for companies operating on national territory. Certainly important is the delegation to be exercised within 12 months for the revision of the tax system and the reference to the respect of Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution and of the law of the European Union, as well as the principles of the Statute of the rights of the taxpayer, with particular reference to the respect of the constraint of irretroactivity of the tax rules (finally, because this aspect has been repeatedly disregarded also by this Government, as we have pointed out on more than one occasion). There is consistency with the law of 5 May 2009 on fiscal federalism. Here, too, we are finally talking again about fiscal federalism. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] At last we are dealing with those famous words that all very often fill their mouths, but then, when we go to talk in concrete terms about fiscal federalism, it seems that we run away and that the important topics are others. What we hope is that the wishes contained in this measure will soon become concrete actions on which to reason, and that our fellow citizens can see. The subject of the reform of the land register is also important, with a view to correcting the inequalities inherent in current incomes. Equally important is the determination of the capital value based on square metres rather than on the number of compartments. These are matters that we certainly see with optimism. Important is the involvement of the municipalities in the revision of the annuities and the census of the properties not yet recorded, but also in this case some doubts arise in us: that they are always the usual known ones to make the revision, that they are always the usual known ones to pay, that they are always the usual ones to have a perfect land register, a land register, as someone says "as God commands." We have this doubt because for months now we have been saying that there are areas of Italy where the land registry does not even exist, where there is a wild abuse, crazy. If, therefore, we hope that this revision of the land register will be carried out by the public authorities, we are on the wrong path, because if over the years these public authorities have not revised the land register and have not noticed that there were building abuses, that there were entire abusive neighborhoods, how can we think that the same people who have not checked up to now, thanks to this wish contained in the measure, of enchantment change their mentality (because of mentality we speak)? We are also talking about rationalization, the fight against evasion and the reordering of erosion. Someone in this House says that citizens must be happy to pay taxes. When I heard this statement, I shuddered, because I think that citizens will not be happy to pay taxes, but they will be happy that everyone pays taxes, but above all that their taxes, the taxes that are demanded by this nation and that are paid by us all are used in a fair and correct way, and above all that they are well spent and there is no waste that makes us indignant on more than one occasion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is important that an additional fund be created to combat tax evasion: this is an idea that we share and that we want to continue, because it is never done enough, on the contrary, it is always too little done to combat this phenomenon. It is therefore an important struggle, but it must be carried out with precision, because in this case too, unfortunately, the tax always affects the usual known, and the usual smarts get away with it. When you see the Forces of Order that intervene in some areas of our country, perhaps forgetting that our country goes from Bolzano to Lampedusa, we wonder why you always go to hit some and not others. The important thing, however, is that the fight against tax evasion should take place. Another issue is that evaders are very often unpunished, but also in this case, if we fight evasion, we have to go through with it. We also looked at the figures for Equitalia, which, for example, put EUR 807 billion in the role. Of these 807 billion, only 69 billion were collected, that is, only 8.5% of what has been put into office. Of these 807 billion, 193 were not even due to the treasury, so the question we ask is: but how does Equitalia work? Let's be a little more precise when they go to tax the taxpayers (which, however, surely, if they don't pay, it is right that they are taxed). Of these 807 billion, 107 belonged to already failed subjects. But if a subject has already failed, he will never pay you: Gian Marco Centinario knows, and it seems strange that Equitalia does not know! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A wish that we consider important concerns the theme of games. I have listened well to what has been said by my fellow Members: important words have been said in the Senate Chamber, which has adopted motions, and also the motion of the League virtually unanimously. Well, it means that the government has a mission, the one that the famous 5 billion euros that come from the games are reduced more and more, because it means that there will be fewer and fewer people playing. Otherwise, let us increase them, because it means that they are even more to be taxed. I remember once again that the League is very attentive to this subject: it is here in the Senate and it is in the various regions that we are administering, such as Lombardy, where important measures have been taken to fight the ludopathies. We welcome the fact that the Commission has gone in this direction, that part of what has been collected from the games is being used to combat ludopathy. We therefore commend the League Group to all the members of the Commission who have spent their time pursuing this idea. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] But there is something that leaves us a little perplexed: for example, the timing of this provision. We are talking about twelve months, and we hope so, but we always hope that things will be done sooner, because citizens are asking us to do things as quickly as possible at the moment. Let's take an example: the Fonzie of Florence and Silvio Berlusconi of Arcore are working at the speed of light to make an electoral law. If it takes little time to make an electoral law, why not take too little time to bring these measures to the attention of the two branches of Parliament and to implement as soon as possible the wishes we have expressed so far? 12:58 p.m. (Following Hundreds of Years). Another important concept that we want to highlight is that, from what we thought we understood in the Commission, a reform of the land register will probably take five years. In this regard too, the hope is that this process will be speeded up, because in five years things will happen, and those who are in order and those who have a house realized with all the Christs pay taxes. In five years we know very well that there will be a lot of evasion, so we hope that there will be an acceleration. The thing we hope for, but not only the League, but also the citizens and businesses, is that there is simplification in taxation and, above all, in bureaucracy. Less taxes, or fairer taxes, also means a bureaucracy that oppresses less our fellow citizens and especially those companies that also leave for too high taxes and because often you do not understand what you have to pay. I conclude by bringing to the attention of the House the arguments we consider important. There is special attention on the part of our movement on four very important topics (not that others are less important, but these are really relevant to us). First of all, federalism, which is an important word for us and we want it to continue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then review the land register, another important issue on which we will be breathing down your necks. And again, fight against evasion and fight against ludopathies. These are four concepts that we consider to be fundamental at this historic moment, especially in this measure. On these four subjects, the government and my colleagues in the majority, we will be breathing down your neck - I stress - because we do not want delays or uncertainties: the League does not say so, but the Italian citizens say so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u50	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u51	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, my fellow Senators, my colleagues in our Group have appreciated the intelligence, balance and measure with which the rapporteurs, Mr Marino and Mr Sciascia, informed the House of the merit and spirit of their work. I believe that what they have both said is more than enough to give reason to those in this House who have raised the issue that this is a delegation born and conceived by another majority. This is irrelevant, precisely because Parliament - as my colleague, Mr Marino, has intelligently pointed out, remembering, together with my colleague Mr Sciascia, the work carried out in the last parliamentary term alongside Mr Barbolini - must be engaged mainly in the matter of delegation, for a greater tax reason: it would be enough to think about the history of parliamentaryism, before and during the constitutional regime. I shall try to take up the most interesting points. Senator Marino has rightly made a reference to the French Revolution: not because I am against it, but because I fear the derapage of Jacobinism that occurred at some point, I would have preferred a reference to the American one, but these can be heresquilies and erudite apostles. Instead, Senator Marino has done very well, about the land register of buildings, to speak of urgent review: without abdicating to my anti-Jacobinism, however, I allow myself to define it as urgent. In order to give a wider political and institutional meaning to this rule, I think the résumé of the Senate's work, which today appears on the fourth page on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), in which at a certain point, recalling the constraint of the invariance of revenue, is noticed how it will be for the municipalities to really enforce it, and not to come to the government's begging that it is the national legislator to cover how and how much such constraint has been violated by them. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the honourable Member of the League who preceded me: not later than two months ago, with a high rate of hostility and anti-parliamentaryism, the issue of gambling was raised right here in the Senate; the Senate itself, in those same days, aware of the mistake made, approved your motion, colleagues of the League. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] The objective of improving all the rules in force in a single ad hoc code of rules on games was therefore an intelligent choice, which has done justice to insinuations and vulgarity of which the whole Senate, with an excess of malice towards some members of our Group, had been targeted in the weeks before Christmas. However, I would like to return to today's "Corriere della Sera" to read through it the statements of a friend of all time, the lawyer Corrado Sforza Fogliani, president of Confessione, a friend in common with President Gasparri, and I also imagine with many others. The fighter Sforza Fogliani therefore says: We have obtained that the invariance is calculated at municipal and non-national level, but the administrations will have to modulate the rates so as not to lead to a general increase in taxes. Another aspect - notes Corrado Sforza Fogliani - is that the representatives of the owners will be part of the commissions that will determine, zone by area, the criteria for calculating values, and adds - with a psychology as a trade unionist, from which I am foreign to the known relations between the French Revolution and the American Revolution - that we will have to carefully monitor, in order to prevent the implementing regulations from distorting this approach in fact. Let me also point out that a fair, transparent and really not rhetorical tax at the service of growth is a tax which, where there is - I believe in Article 11 - the entrepreneur's income, continues with the utmost respect for the Constitution and the rule of law. I appreciated when Mr Sciascia, in his report, citing another academic authority in the field of tax law, noted how in our legal system - a material constitution, it was said once - the suspicion of evasion became a general rule. That is also why I do not like tax evasion, but I do not add to the gargarianisms of a manner and convenience on the fight against tax evasion, because the fight against tax evasion must not be without the Constitution and the rule of law. It is humiliating, otherwise, to hear how the Taxpayer's Statute binds to the respect of the Constitution. Perhaps it is a forced summons, but just the day before yesterday in this House, on the other hand, I felt very uncomfortable when, in the context of the debate on the node of the 'consciously', which led to violating the broad unity of the House's text, it was said that the fight against the mafia is the fight against the enemy and, as such, must disregard and force the penal code. Absolutely not: the penal code is not in the Constitution, but it is the law of guarantees; it is not a law of war against anyone, not even against the mafia and crime, and on the substance of our issue I am sure that the Government will take this into account. Smart considerations have been carried out by my colleague Senator Caliendo, a man of great experience in various jurisdictions, especially tax. Senator Caliendo noted the excess of quietism about total evasion and an excess of interventionism, very often biased, about this or that category. Of course, progressiveness also lies in the Constitution and, in the matter of taxes, I want the whole Constitution to be taken into account, including the principle of progressiveness. However, I cannot accept that our Constitution should be put at the service of needs, political relations or, worse, judicial relations with so-called public opinion. And to this, the merit of the report and the text to which the Commission has worked is able to give us adequate guarantees. So, to the representative of the government, of which we have great esteem, I also point out the last part of Senator Caliendo's intervention. The Senators of the New Right Center Group will follow with a favourable prejudice the developments of the initiative launched this morning in useful times for what must be the spirit of the relationship between Parliament and Government in the matter of delegation. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u53	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their intensive work in the Commission and for the very detailed and comprehensive report they have presented in this House. As a member of the Finance and Treasury Committee, I would like to thank my fellow Members of the Commission. Beyond personal opinions, everyone has worked hard to ensure that the measure proceeds quickly, despite the breach determined by the decree-laws and by the regulatory pasties. This must be acknowledged to all, especially those who have always been in opposition in the measure, i.e. the representatives of the 5 Star Movement Groups, the Left Ecology and Freedom and the North League and Autonomies. It is a measure awaited by citizens and economic operators. It is not a revolution (it has been remembered, and it is true), but it can help to improve a very complicated and difficult fiscal situation. I must say, in order to exhaust the premises that, despite the esteem towards the person who followed the process of the measure under consideration, the Deputy Minister Casero, and how he plays his institutional role, cannot be implied that there is concern, because here it is a delegation, and this delegation must be exercised by a Government on whose operational capacities the doubts are very, very numerous. The resignation of Deputy Minister Fassina no one believes depended on the statement of the Secretary of the Democratic Party. Most probably from within he realized - and he also declared it asking for a reshuffle - the operational scarcity of the Government, in general, and of the Ministry of Economy, in particular. We hope, despite this, that the Government will have the capacity on this occasion to make an exception and to manage the delegation soon and well. I would like to focus on three specific points. Firstly, the problem of the relationship between citizens and the tax system. In our country on the one hand there is a tax evasion absolutely unbearable, huge. It is useless to make rankings: we are certainly not in a prestigious position in the ranking of countries whose citizens pay taxes. At the same time, the average citizen feels hunted, persecuted by the tax authorities. The complete compensation for the taxpayer citizen between the tax credits and the tax debts provided for in the measure is a very positive fact, but the hope is that on this line we will continue and move forward, because - I repeat - on the one hand we must combat tax evasion in practice, but on the other hand the citizen must know that he has a dignity in relation to tax. Attributing to the citizen the burden of proving his innocence actually represents an anomaly of which a rule of law cannot be proud. Then there is the problem of the overall extent of the tax burden. The rapporteur, Mr Sciascia, reminded us that there is a commitment in the delegation so that - in any case - there is no increase. But that there is not an increase is not enough. We have a direct and indirect tax burden which is absolutely unacceptable. We are the second industrial country in Europe, despite our crisis, but we have an objectively difficult situation. We have a problem with certain product sectors which have become objectively less competitive in the international context; we have a problem with the location of Italian companies; we have a problem with foreign investment. Well, we must know - very clearly - that the problems and obstacles to our activity are many, but above all three. The first is the inability of authorities and bureaucracy to respond. Often, we do not give answers to the demands of those who want to invest and want to take initiatives: we must say yes - sometimes even no - but we must be quick. We have civil justice that is a disaster: the creditor must hope that the debtor is honest and pay, otherwise he has no defense, because the times are biblical and the costs are unbearable. Then there is the problem of the quantity and complexity of taxes, both directly and indirectly. If we do not have a reduction in taxation (despite the fact that, of course, evasion must be fought), we cannot hope that the economy will resume. The last point I would like to mention is the revision of the land register provided for in Article 2. Gentlemen, there is no point in hiding. In fact, on real estate there is a real asset that is perpetuated every year and, on the other hand, it is also logical that it is so, because we have a very substantial public debt and a difficult situation, and we know that it is difficult to hide the goods in the sun. So, knowing that all these taxes are articulated using an instrument that is a disaster, such as our current land register, creates an inconvenience for both the citizen and the legislator, who knows that it introduces taxes, but uses an instrument that is already unfair from the start. Therefore, this can only give rise to a situation of injustice. According to the Italian land registry, the luxury properties throughout the country are 73,000: a figure absolutely laughable and ridiculous. We have disparities and injustices between the various Italian cities, between the various Italian regions and - indeed - also within the same city. There is unevenness between homes, in buildings dedicated to work and in every area. It is a situation that needs to be straightened out. Of course, for those who are informed - the members of the Finance and Treasury Committee - there is a great deal of embarrassment: we know that as soon as this delegation and the process start, this land register will be ready after five years. We have expressed our uneasiness and perplexity, but we know that we cannot do otherwise. Let us hope that the years can become four and a half years and that it does not happen - instead - that the 5 years become 7, 8 or 9 because - unfortunately - the experience of our country teaches us that when we say five the risk is not that the times are reduced, but that we go beyond. The hope is that there will be immediate determination on this work, that some provisional results can already be achieved before the age of five and, above all, that a mechanism for revising the land register will be put in place, including an automatic adjustment, in order to avoid that in five years there will be a well-updated land register and then, in fifty years' time, our grandchildren will have a land register that, in turn, will be exceeded. Let us hope that this situation can be avoided. The main concern is, therefore, to ensure that the delegation, once approved, is managed in the best possible way. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u56	Mr President, the most important thing that should be included in this delegation law is to make the taxpayer aware of what is happening in the tax universe and, therefore, the citizens and not the people involved. Let me give you an example. We are talking a lot about evasion and undeclared work; those who rent houses often use soft contracts, such as, for example, dry coupons. The Revenue Agency has changed the form and, therefore, the citizen is not immediately aware of the changes that are being made. Some might then object that the landmark must always be the accountant, but he is not always in-depth and aware of what the changes are. So there are too many variables. For greater transparency and also to avoid tax evasion, there is a need for certain rules. Rates vary and modules vary; there are too many situations that give uncertainty. Not everyone can afford the accountant. I also recall the uprising of accountants resulting from all the chaos about rates. I would like to focus on a second aspect. I hear about tax, loyalty, honesty and transparency. Apart from the fact that Equitalia has increased the increase from 8 to 9 percent, I would like to point out another point. Here comes the folder of Equitalia at home (almost always on Saturday and Sunday to ruin the weekend), which asks for documentation. The taxpayer immediately sends the documentation that is requested, but then, inevitably, comes the folder of Equitalia. Then, two o'clock, one o'clock; either they pretend not to see the documents or they lose them. You have to understand something about this. I also address the Government: we need certainty. If you ask the taxpayer to prove that he has made expenses, he must give some documents and pay a certain amount, these documents sent and received, you must know that they have been received, not that they end up in thin air and in the end comes the Equitalia folder increased with sanctions and interest. On this point too, we need clarity and transparency. Times must be respected. If the taxpayer does not send the documents, the speech is different, but if he sends them he does not have to arrive the folder of Equitalia. In conclusion, I would like to focus on the land register. Let's talk a lot about the revision of the land register. In a city as big as Rome is getting stained with leopards, in some neighborhoods it is rising surreptitiously, saying that there is an embassy or a (fake) subway. In fact, the cadastral income is increased and, in the end, taxes are increased. It is true, in fact, that the quality and prestige of the buildings is increased, but if you are in difficulty and you have to sell the property itself and, perhaps, you buy the second house, you pay the cadastral income multiplied by 126. If the cadastral annuity goes from 1,000 to 1,200 to 1,600 or 2,600, there is a huge expense that must be borne by the buyer, to which are added the expenses for the notary and the enrollment. And in a context of depression in the real estate business, this clearly creates further damage. So as far as the tax system is concerned - as my colleague Mr Carraro said - the revision of cadastral rents takes place on the spot of a leopard and then, especially on the most important issues relating to taxpayers - I am not talking about obvious issues such as the rising tax burden now skyrocketing - there are no rules. It is not possible that a person with 1,200 apartments is a total evador and no one is able to locate it, while all citizens get folders on folders. A taxpayer received a debitory folder and paid 0.12 cents while a person with 1,200 apartments was unaware of everything and everyone! There must be absolutely a middle ground. If Equitalia or the INPS itself are on the Internet, the taxpayer must be able to understand and see which are the open and closed debitory folders. I hope, Mr Sciascia and Mr Mauro Marino, with whom I have already had the opportunity to talk about these issues, that a clear and transparent relationship will really be established between taxation and taxpayers. [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion and preparation of this draft law has certainly been - as has also been pointed out by others - a positive experience and its rapid completion and the subsequent adoption by the Government of the relevant legislative decrees within twelve months can set in motion an absolutely virtuous process. We are not - as someone said - the great reform (maybe these are not times for great reforms), but we are at deep, just and acceptable innovations, and it is already so much if we can do this with extreme concreteness. The aim is to organise a fairer, more transparent and simplified tax system for growth. Tax policy not only as an assailant, anguish, but as an indispensable instrument of economic growth. We have, in the 5th Commission, exercised an excellent level of cooperation with minority groups and I would like to thank Deputy Minister Casero, who has never withdrawn from a constructive confrontation, just as I really appreciate the work of the two rapporteurs, in particular the President of the Commission Mauro Marino. The text, further improved by the amendments adopted in the Commission, also demonstrates - and I would like to say this - Parliament's ability to deal with complex issues, not necessarily overwhelmed solely by the government's decree-laws. Positive also the complex work of listening, auditions and comparison. I would like to highlight, among many, some of the qualifying points: the revision of the land register of buildings and the rules on tax evasion and erosion; the rules on simplification and revision of the sanctioning system; the revision of the litigation and collection of local authorities; the delegation for the revision of the tax on corporate income and indirect taxes; the delegation to introduce, after the positive experience of ecobonus, new intelligent forms of environmental taxation; the discipline of the abuse of law and tax avoidance. It is important, then, to delegate public games, which is finally a valid regulatory factor, a grip on games made in an intelligent way. With the Leader of the Democratic Party in the Finance Committee, Gianluca Rossi, I followed the fruitful work with the intergroup games between Chamber and Senate of the Democratic Party. This has allowed us, on such a delicate subject, to share in advance the themes to be put to the Chamber, so that, together with the other senators and with the help of the Government, we have maintained the system of Article 14, as already regulated by the Chamber, innovative only on a positive aspect. We have been able to include in that article and in this text the qualifying points of legislative proposals which had been in Parliament for months and which dealt with gambling (one of them bears my first signature): the fight against gambling, illegal gambling, the control of ludopathies, issues that were part of various legislative proposals, have now fallen into tax delegation. This will certainly allow acceleration on important processes. In accordance with Article 14, all existing provisions on public games must be reordered in a code, a kind of unique text on games: a very important fact. Article 14 also indicates important and significant innovations precisely in order to combat abuse. For example, I quote the introduction of the unique title to the exercise of the offer of play and its nullity if issued outside of the specific plans prepared by the municipalities. So here's the role of the local authority. I would also like to mention the revision of theggies and compensations with a level of progressiveness linked to the collection volumes, another very important fact, and the territorial rationalization based on the concentration of collection facilities in safer, controlled and more limited environments, on the basis of the plans to be adopted by the municipalities. Finally, I mention the extraordinary plan of controls aimed at the fight against illegal gambling and the definition of a state competition through the establishment of a state fund, financed by the law of stability; aimed primarily at the fight against pathological gambling, also in competition with regional and local finance. Concrete measures, explained in detail in the tax delegation and of which we must be proud, also in order to close an exaggerated controversy and artefact on other measures. This is the text that will regulate in a definite and detailed way a complex matter, on which you cannot only make beautiful souls, such as that of gambling and illegal gambling. The amendments introduced also indicate as the subject of legislative decree the reform and rationalization of the 8 per thousand, the revision and the discipline of the technical assistance before the tax commissions, providing for the extension of the subjects qualified to represent the taxpayers; the extension to the family associations - in several passages we have inserted the objective to involve them - of a possible comparison on the issues of the evasion and the reorganization of the facilities. The attention to families has also been placed on the agenda in which it is indicated to the Government the necessity to apply the family coefficients for the determination of the total tax burden. Overall, therefore, a good result. The Democratic Party, aware of the importance of this instrument, wanted to work with the utmost effort alongside the other Senators of the Finance Commission to bring good work to the Senate Chamber. Now, of course, it is up to the Government, once the process has been completed, to fulfil the principles and objectives of this proposal by means of legislative decrees. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u59	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-179.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 3 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.35 a.m.
