ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we should now move on to the discussion of the constitutional reform bill. The President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, asked to speak to report on the Commission's work. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission will be completing its work by now. We have completed the overall examination of the text and the various articles. Some important passages remain to be defined in the drafting of the text to be delivered to the House, and I therefore ask that we be able to have a postponement to complete the work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to raise a question which, as you know, I have already put directly to you. Together with other colleagues, I put this issue in a written letter, and of course I expressed my thoughts and my proposal also at the Conference of Leaders which was convened yesterday. The rapporteur in the Commission has now called for the start of the general discussion on the draft Constitutional Reform Law to be postponed until tomorrow, since the Commission's work has not yet been completed. I think, Mr President, that all the senators who make up this House have the right to examine the text and not to have to do so tonight, when perhaps the work of the Commission is finished, and they also have the right to carry out an assessment which cannot be entrusted solely and solely to the representatives of the Groups within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because we are faced with a very delicate procedure. This is not a bill like the others, it is not a decree like the others: it is a far-reaching constitutional reform. I believe that every senator has the right and the duty - because each of us is in front of the Constitution - to be able to evaluate the text on the substance and therefore to make his own opinion, in order to finally be able to express his vote in a free and convinced (or unconvinced) way. That is why, Mr President, I think it takes a few days for the text to be fully evaluated. I therefore believe - and this is my proposal - that the start of the general debate should be moved to Wednesday next week, and I am asking you here publicly, of course, for a reasonable time for the tabling of amendments, because we are faced with a rather complex process. I would also like to say that the Commission's work has been delayed, not because, as some might think, obstructive operations are in place, but because there is a debate which is objectively very complex. I therefore think that, all the more so, the House must have plenty of time to examine the text. Otherwise, as far as the constitutional reform process is concerned, there is a risk of operations which are certainly not serious. Nor do I think it is right that the senators should form their opinion only by reading the newspapers, but they should study the actual text which will eventually be fired by the Commission. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u15	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, while, in carrying out an evil pact imposed by the Government, a large part of the majority and also part of the opposition, with the exclusion of the Group I represent, is moving the Constitution, which envisages the future Senate as the simulacrum of a parliamentary branch, while we have to learn from the press that the deadline for tabling amendments in this House would seem to be set for next Tuesday 15 July and while we learn that in the first Commission some amendments have been withdrawn to be proposed directly in this House, there is a framework that we find worrying, from our point of view, to say very little. I will therefore repeat what has already been said at the Conference of Parents and just referred to by Senator De Petris, namely the need that, in any case, as a result of the Commission's work, it should not be allowed, but I would say that a reasonable deadline should be set for the parliamentary amendment phase. In fact, we are all fully aware that we are putting our hand in the living flesh of the constitutional system, and this haste, which is imposed on us and which is imposed above all on the members of its majority by the Great Accelerator, is unacceptable and will remain in the history of this country if it should have this unfortunate outcome. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Zin.]] We therefore call for a reasonable deadline, where, from our point of view, 'congruent' means at least a week of time, so that we can reason and understand how we can deal with the amendments which, I repeat, we are told will be tabled directly in this House. In our view, as repeatedly requested at the Conference of the Leaders and also here in the Chamber, this time that the Senate is forced not to commit on today's day and - who knows, we will see - perhaps even tomorrow, should have been taken more fruitfully by bringing to the House the examination and the vote of the draft law package on anti-corruption and the crime of fraud in the budget. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]] We now have the full awareness that this does not happen because it probably interferes with the dark pacts, I would say turbid, unknown of the so-called Nazarene Pact [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] on which we want to crucify the dignity of this very Assembly! Therefore, I propose that the timetable be amended so that, Mr President, next week, from 15 July onwards, the debate and vote on the related draft laws No 19 be included, remembering that in the Commission justice only the voting of the amendments and the conferral of the mandate on the rapporteur in order to be able to dismiss the text for the House. I add nothing else, because I think the situation is clear to everyone, out of all hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u18	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, at least until today this Senate is here, and you as President are also my guarantee body, so my appeal is essentially to you. I would have liked the President of the Republic, at the time when he is urging us to finally come to these reforms, also to appeal for compliance with the procedures in this House, Mr President. And the procedures, like you who have so largely trodden the courtrooms know, are ultimately also substance. I would remind you, Mr President, that we have presented to you, as President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, a statement - and it is appropriate for the senators to know this - on the removal of Senator Mario Mauro. In that statement we expressed our opinion - as has been argued by the lawyers who helped us - that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is a perfect Commission, which means that, if Senator Mauro has been removed and should return to that place, all the acts adopted by the Commission to date are null and void. We would like an answer - which we await - from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure before we proceed to the debate on the reform that is on the agenda. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] In this connection, Mr President, I am therefore asking you once again for a postponement so that we can know, before proceeding, the decision of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the subject we have tabled. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u21	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that the thoughts of my colleagues who spoke before me are to be shared, and I do not believe this to be true only of myself, but of all, or almost all, the senators present in this House, as well as of the majority of Italian citizens. We should soon have the debate on reforms in this House - but I hope it will be postponed for a few days, so that we can have a more careful reflection - which will remain in history and which will certainly weigh not only on us, as representatives of the people at the moment, but also on the future of our children. I therefore believe - and I repeat - that the reflections put forward by my colleagues before me are thoughts of common sense, which should be heard, transposed and implemented accordingly. This means taking a few days of time, reflecting very carefully and beginning to take a respectful attitude towards Members of Parliament, because the senators present in this House do not have their own personal interests, but those of all citizens, and one more day certainly, dear representative of the Government, could be useful in developing a much more balanced and much more serious reasoning, so that we do not have to regret one day the choices we are making or that we will make in a few days in this House. Therefore, our reflection is not only for the protection of those who speak - or of the one who speaks - but it is certainly a reflection that will protect all those who are very forcefully speeding up the reform, an acceleration that is often not properly considered, as it should be. I therefore strongly appeal to you, Mr President of the Senate, and to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, because we are convinced that it is necessary to think very carefully: reforms must be done, but with a criterion, in the interests of the community and the people whom we represent. There is no urgency to implement something that tomorrow could be, not only useless, but compromising for the democracy of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u24	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, every time I saw it lightly surpassed the procedures, at the end of the procedure there was something wrong. This reform has been approached by much of the majority in a competitive way. It has been thought and thought that it must be done, that it must be done quickly and that reforms must be made. Of course, it is important for everyone what reforms are being made, how these are made and what are functional. Our institutional structure is more than sixty years old and, in one way or another, has made us progress to this day. What we would like to do, taking into account what is working in the Commission, is a new institutional structure; it is not a peripheral revision, nor an adjustment of the Constitution, but, I repeat, it is a new institutional structure. I realized in the Commission - working on it every day - how important the analysis of the text is to understand its implications, because every change involves unwritten changes, not easily intelligible. At this point, I wonder how every member of this House can carry out the analysis due to its role without having the minimum time to carry out an examination that is not limited to a careful reading, but that also includes the analysis of what is not written and involved by what is written. For this reason, Mr President, together with other Members, I asked you, in your capacity as guarantor of the work of the Senate Assembly and as guarantor of minorities present in this House, to allow this House more time to carry out a preliminary analysis before the start of the debate on the text dismissed by the Commission. For this reason, I renew your request. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u27	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, President Finocchiaro's request comes this morning following yesterday's Conference of Leaders: precisely because it was not possible - technically speaking - to set the timetable for the constitutional reform bill in the Chamber one day, it was rightly decided to discuss it today in the Chamber in the presence of all the senators. The problem posed yesterday by President Finocchiaro was that of the economy of work: the members of the 1st Commission - including myself - worked these days and yesterday afternoon understood how it was absolutely impossible, as well as improbable, to conclude the debate in the Commission last night, in order to allow the timing of the measures in this House for today's sitting. So, at this moment we are discussing the one-day shift - this is the request - to see if, during today's day, it is possible to move forward on the many important problems that are still on the table, considering that the biggest nodes of this constitutional review process had been set aside precisely to allow first solving the collateral problems and then entering into the real merit of the issues that need to be addressed in these days. All in all, this method seems acceptable to me, but it needs its time. Basically this morning we have to decide not to schedule the measures in this House today, so that the Conference of the Leaders, which will be held immediately afterwards, can see what the real, genuine times are, which are needed. Mr President, I believe that in this respect we can accept President Finocchiaro's request, because we cannot schedule the draft Constitutional Reform Act today, since the work in the Commission was not completed yesterday, and therefore allow the Conference of Leaders to determine a timetable later, in the perfect economy of the work, exactly in line with what has been pointed out in some of the speeches that have been made. In conclusion, I would like to say that the intervention of Senator Scilipoti, in his legitimacy, does not represent the opinion of the Group that I have, unfortunately or fortunately, the honour and the burden of representing, and therefore I believe that I must give you and the Senate Assembly the feeling and conviction of the Group that I represent here. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u30	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I believe that the objective of bringing draft constitutional reform laws before the House must be pursued precisely because of the importance of the same measures. The House appears to be the most appropriate place in which to look into aspects which have also been considered in the Commission, but which can be even more and even better examined and resolved with the full involvement of the Members of this House. What is being discussed, as Senator Romani recalled earlier, is the delay of a day. I believe that this delay can be allowed precisely to complete the process of work within the Commission, also taking into account the absence of Mr Calderoli, to whom we all agree, our affectionate good wishes. [[Applause.]] However, I repeat that the reforms, in our view, must be carried out. This country cannot afford too much longer the postponement of a reform of the State as it is carried out not only through the modification of the decision-making process of its traditional perfect bicameralism, but also through the modification of the relationship between the State, the Regions, the Municipalities and the overcoming of that crooked tree of federalism whose limits we have together several times considered. We therefore proceed in the terms we have assumed (at least, in our view, this should be the case) and allow the House to work in depth, while respecting the autonomy of individual Members, each of whom will have the opportunity to express his or her beliefs to the full, and then by a sovereign decision, of the whole House. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u33	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, at yesterday's meeting of the Presidents of the Groups, it was decided, in the absence of a unanimous decision, to present to the House, since the programme provided for the discussion of the draft Constitutional Reform Act with the formula 'where concluded', as in the meantime the Commission's work was constantiated, and then the Conference of the Leaders was reunited. The speeches just made by authoritative Group Presidents allow me to speak, in accordance with what was already done at the Conference of Group Leaders yesterday afternoon, and to renew, in accordance with the wishes of the other authoritative Group Presidents, the invitation to the Government, encouraged by what Mr Bersani has just said on television, namely that reforms are not a result, almost an Indian scalp to be brought to the European meeting on 16 July. Just as it was not a scalp to lead to the opening meeting of the Italian Presidency of the European Council when President Zanda asked us, and by majority obtained, that the bill should already be scheduled for 3. So we saw a succession of forced calendarizations: the 3, the 8, the 9, maybe the 10 or, who knows, even the 15 July. There is no precedent in the discussions on the constitutional reform bill. I have already mentioned yesterday that, in the winter of 2004, the debate on constitutional reform committed this House from 22 January to 26 March; and only on 11 March a Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, by majority, decided that the draft should be scheduled for 26 March of that year. I recalled at the Conference of the Leaders that President Angius emphasized, with the authority that resulted from being president of the largest Opposition Group, as well as with his personal authority, that there was no precedent in republican history. Today we are not only violating those precedents, but we are every time, week after week, trying to bring to the House a bill that should be better meditated on and more carefully pointed out. If we wanted to do otherwise, we could take back the draft law already hesitated, that is, the constitutional reform of 2004, because, for what I heard from President Bersani today, it would be fine, instead of continuing to discuss the sex of angels. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Also because what is foretold - and let us begin to say in this House, without so much inflaming - is that what we have not had the courage to do will be done by the Members of this House. In fact, at the same time as this House's self-regulation of suicide, we will have to discuss the electoral law and, in that case, we will necessarily have to discuss an electoral law that gives a House the opportunity to elect the President of the Council, the Head of State, the Constitutional Court, to do everything and more, without there being any control on the part of the elected people, because those will not be elected but, with this electoral law, will be appointed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So what are we talking about? Let's talk about something a little more serious! In this House we should talk more carefully - and the 1st Commission is already doing so, with the authoritative leadership of President Finocchiaro - about something that is not a reform whatever it is, but it is the future of this country, the new form of democracy of the State; it is not something to be included, where it is concluded, one week after the other, on the agenda of this House. [[Applause from the LAGs, FI-PdL XVII and M5S and the Senators Bruni and Compagna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u36	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on a number of points that have been made to you by myself and other Members in writing, I am not going back. I would simply like to have these questions answered: are we discussing an ordinary law, or are we going to discuss the substantial change in the pact that is founded on our democracy? Do we have a defined time frame, because it comes from international commitments or imperative imperatives, or do we simply want to meet a need for parliamentary programming? One and the other makes me feel - and I would like answers in this respect - that it is not one more day or one less day that solves the problem. On the other hand, looking at the behaviour of these classrooms over the decades, starting from the first meeting of the constituent Assembly and the Commission of the 75, I read from the parliamentary acts that the time between the completion of the work in the Commission and the start of work in this House was reasonable and reasonable and allowed Members to reflect on an act defined by the Commission itself. In fact, at the end of the Commission's work of the seventy-five Members reasoned with regard to the overall structure of the Constitution and its possible changes to be made in this House. This is what my colleague Mr Campanella already said: the Constitution cannot be changed by rubbing the leaves like an artichoke: the Constitution is a system that stands with weights and counterweights, with reasoned balances, with not explicit, but real effects, that are produced in the democracy of a country and in particular in ours that, apparently, bends the rules according to the conveniences; in this House I have already said it repeatedly, referring also to personal events, that have changed the political perspective of this legislature. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to allow this Parliament, this House of the Senate, to be able to calmly and fully reason on what may be the fate of this country, and it is certainly not the weekly concerns that concern us, let alone the European deadlines of 16, which are certainly exceeded in the absence of a serious final act. Our fellow European rulers will not, in fact, be content with the license, obtained in these terms, of a Parliamentary Commission to consider the process of constitutional revision concluded. I don't think we're even at the beginning, Mr. President. Apart from the substance, which we will be discussing extensively, twice in this House as well as in the House, I believe that the time must still be provided for serious reflection within this House and also outside, in relation to public opinion, to the debate that must be held on the media and also to the internal reflections of political organisations which, as is evident, are not monolithic granites. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, Mixed-ILC and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u39	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, I would like to reassure my colleagues that Senator Calderoli is well-equipped to return to the Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u40	We're glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u41	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Therefore, we await him with open arms, with due time, because it is right that everyone takes the necessary time to heal and be in shape for this important path of constitutional reforms. I am sorry that the Minister is not present, but we are used, given the last time, when President Renzi pretended to come to the Chamber and then go to see the game. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-ILC and Misto Groups and Senator Rossi Maurizio]] We will remind you of that until you come back to this House. Anyway, it doesn't matter, it's fine anyway; let's keep going like this. We said that constitutional reforms are an important process: they are the fundamental acts of this country. At the moment there are two proposals on the table: to postpone the debate and start it tomorrow or postpone it by a week. We may share both, because it takes time, because it is necessary to understand exactly, and it is right that all our fellow senators have the opportunity to analyse everything on the table right now. However, we would like to remind the Government that, although reforms are important, other measures that will come to this House in the coming weeks are equally important. I am referring to the delegation of work and the decree-competitiveness law, which are currently under discussion in the House of Deputies. These issues are really of interest to citizens. [[Applause from Senator Candiani),]] that the Italians have been waiting for a long time to restart the economy and to see concrete those famous promises that President Renzi had made. Well, we hope that the government will not come to this House and say that there is no time and that is why we are putting the question of trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-ILC and Mixed Groups]] What we are asking for is a debate on constitutional reforms but also on the concrete issues that are of interest to people; otherwise it means that we are not there, it means that we are wasting time and that there is no programming. What we are asking for is planning to allow a branch of Parliament, legitimately elected by the citizens - alas, President Renzi - to be able to work in the best possible way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u44	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to take the floor personally to state a position which will not, for the moment, enter into the substance of the debate on the text of the constitutional reform process. I, as usual, appreciate the calmness and argumentative ability of my colleague Romani. However, I believe that debating whether to postpone until tomorrow really does not mean proposing a postponed debate, because this is obviously the result of a necessary condition. While I wish to reiterate the utmost respect for President Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli - and I too wish him well for his health - and while I reiterate the respect for the work of my colleagues who have worked hard in the Commission, I therefore find the arguments of some colleagues who stress the need for this House to have all the time available for a serious and thoughtful assessment of the texts that will be dismissed from the Commission's work. I would also like to point out that there is no will to delay. I am also convinced that the process of constitutional reform must be completed and I believe that it must be completed in a very timely manner, but I believe that the request that many Members have made about the need to have sufficient time to evaluate the texts and to be able to promote a conscious judgment on the choices that will have to be made is justified and reasonable. So I would like to appeal to your sense of responsibility and also to your wisdom, Mr President, also in relation to the request that we have made with some of your colleagues to make sure that the House has a reasonable time: once the time of which you yourself will be able to evaluate and propose. Moreover, and I repeat that I am speaking personally, for my part there is the greatest willingness to work rapidly and intensively, when we are going to have a general debate and then we are going to vote. It is possible to intensify next week's sessions, to continue them even at night and to anticipate the date for the general discussion on Monday. But I do not want to go into the substance of a proposal, the definition of which, Mr President, I entrust to your responsibility and your choice. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u47	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I think it is also necessary to add a few words on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. This morning's sitting began with a communication and an obligatory speech by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Our timetable, approved in the Group leaders and confirmed by the House, was for the start of the debate on constitutional reform this morning. The President of the 1st Commission, pointing out that the timetable had provided for our discussion to begin only if the Commission's work had been completed, informed the House that the work would be completed today and therefore asked, in line with the timetable already approved by the Group leaders and the House, that the beginning of the debate in this House should begin tomorrow and not this morning. This is an elementary observation and I would not have taken the floor to do so if there had not been a debate following President Finocchiaro's speech, which I respect, of course, but which for its development seemed almost to comment on the decision of a new timetable, which was not there, because there was no Conference of the Leaders and nothing has changed. I would not have taken the floor for these elementary considerations if I had not listened to arguments that I frankly do not agree with. I would therefore like to make a few points. First of all, if there are laws for which, by constitutional dictation, one cannot, by their nature, rush into Parliament's examination, these are the laws amending the Constitution, so much so that the constitutional dictation provides for even four readings: we really have plenty of time to think, think and rethink. We have had this measure before us since April. The debate in the Commission was very wide-ranging and profound. All the Members concerned, including those who spoke this morning, had the opportunity - I imagine - to follow the sitting by sitting. The work is in the final stage of the Commission, and at this point, Mr President, it must be coordinated with a timetable of the House that I would like to see all of us here. We are also responsible for the timetable for the coming weeks. We have four decree-laws to approve; then there are the law of constitutional change, two very important European norms and the delegation of work. These are measures that must be harmonised in time and in ways. In order to draw the attention of the Members who have spoken this morning, remembering the observance of the rules, I would like to point out that our Rules of Procedure provide for a precise procedure to schedule the work of this House. The procedure has been followed so far, and I am sure, President, that you will also be the guarantor of this procedure in the near future and in the near future, and so it will be the Group Leader who will decide the timetable according to the opportunities, needs and political and institutional assessments that each Group will bring to the Conference of Leaders, and the House will have the opportunity, as it has always had in this parliamentary term and in the previous ones, to agree to or correct the decisions of the Group Leader. Therefore, in complete consonance with those who have requested it, I believe that we would do well to follow diligently the procedures that our Rules of Procedure provide for. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u48	As there are no other speeches on the subject, I call the Conference of Leaders in thirty minutes. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the meeting of the group leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 10.20 a.m. and resumed at 12.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u49	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 25 July. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, at 16.30, the draft Constitutional Reform Act will be incardinated - where concluded by the Commission - with the development of relations. The debate will continue on Monday 14 July from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. without interruption, and then on the following days until Thursday 17 July. The deadline for tabling amendments is 1 p.m. on Tuesday 15 July. It is recalled that on the morning of Friday 18 July the Senate House will be engaged in the work of the COSAC Conference. In the week from 21 to 25 July, with sessions starting from the afternoon of Monday 21, will be examined the decree-law on the matter of competitiveness and, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the decree-law on culture and tourism, for which the distribution of the times between the Groups has been carried out. In order to allow the two measures to be concluded, the afternoon session on Thursday 24 and the afternoon session on Friday 25 do not include closing hours. It is recalled that Parliament is convened tomorrow at 13.30 a.m. for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There will be a single call, which will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u50	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 25 July 2014: [[Thursday, July 10 pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First Resolution of the Senate) (Ove concluded by the Commission) (Reports)]] Parliament is convened at 1.30 p.m. on Thursday 10 July for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The senators will vote first. [[Monday 14 July ant. h. 11-22 - Following constitutional bill n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Tuesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-21 Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-21 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 15]] Amendments to Constitutional Act No 1429 and related (Constitutional Reform) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Tuesday 15 July. In the morning of Friday 18 July, the Senate Chamber will be engaged in the meeting of the Conference of the European Union's Specialised Affairs Commissions (COSAC). [[Monday, July 21 pom. h. 16,30-20,30 - Drawing of law no. 1541 - Decree-Law No. 91, competitiveness (Final vote by 25 July) (Scade on 23 August) - Drawing of law no...... - Decree-Law No. 83, culture and tourism (Scade on 30 July) (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Tuesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Friday 25 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 1541 (Decree-Law No 91, competitiveness) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Monday 14 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Law No 83, culture and tourism) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the House of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1541 (Decree-Law No 91, competitiveness) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 43' Mixed 37' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 83, culture and tourism) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u53	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is clear to everyone that the debate that has taken place, even before the meeting of the Leaders, and the statements made by many senators about the need to be able to examine what will be the final text that will be produced by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and therefore the right of individual senators and the right of minorities to have all the time, the minimum necessary, to examine all aspects of this constitutional reform, all this has not been taken into account at all. And I say to you that this has been done, Mr President, also by heavily confining the rights of minorities. Who once shouted in this House, when there was the constitutional reform of Berlusconi, against speeding up the times and against the fact that the rights of the opposition, minorities and individuals were not respected, obviously completely forgot what he was saying at the time. Renzi gave himself a timetable, so that he could go to the first European meeting of the Italian semester on 16 July, which will be the first structural reform that began here in the Senate, and this once again for purely external purposes to this House and to the needs of democracy, regardless of the need to seriously examine the consequences and contents of this constitutional reform. In the name of this acceleration - I think, among other things, that very few people in this House are familiar with the amendment that was tabled last night - a timetable is established which sets, among other things, the deadline for tabling amendments at 12 noon on Tuesday 15 July, as you announced, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The deadline shall be 1 p.m. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Thank you for giving us an extra hour, President, we are moved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not a concession I'm making right now. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, setting out for Thursday the start of the general debate on reforms - among other things, most likely, on Thursday morning the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will continue to work, in addition to the fact that Parliament is convened in joint sitting for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary - will mean that anyone who wants to submit a minority report will not even have the material time to write it. It was intended to force, therefore, despite the fact that different opinions were expressed - also by other groups - in the Conference of the Leaders. It was preferred to do this acceleration operation when - as both we and the Leader of the 5 Star Movement had proposed - both Thursday and Monday we could begin to examine those measures whose discussion is postponed instead. Evidently, the government is saying the subject of anti-corruption, but then, to the test of the facts, it does not want to hear about it, since there were all the times to start next week. The same can be said for the competitiveness decree-law: the deadline for tabling amendments was set for Monday 14 July, so that the House's examination could easily begin next week. My proposal - and it did not seem to me to be such a delay - was to start the debate on the constitutional reform on Wednesday, so that we could have a minimum time to do the necessary in-depth work. I therefore propose a timetable for the alternative work, which provides for the start on Monday 14 of the general debate on the anti-corruption measure and, at this point, the start of the examination of constitutional reforms on Wednesday 16, with a delay in the deadline for tabling amendments to Tuesday 22. Mr President, I always say that there is a serious mistake in our way of proceeding, that of thinking that, through the acceleration operations, we can do a serious job for the country. As you know, President, there are precedents of other constitutional reforms made with force and with accelerations that have not brought good to this country, so much so that, for example, on Title V we intervene again and everyone today says that it was a mistake: now it is continuing on the same path. I would like to point out that the budget balance has been introduced in Article 81 of the Constitution. Now, even in relation to that, everyone says that this was a very serious mistake and that perhaps it took more time to reflect. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups]] In this way, we are following the same path and, Mr President, this will not bring good to the country, which certainly needs structural reforms, but it needs reforms that give clear answers to the great social hardship, to the problems of employment and unemployment. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups]] I believe that is what the European Union wanted! You will once again take responsibility for this. I am sorry, Mr President, to recall that all the senators and all the Members, when they sit down, swear on the Constitution. I would like to remind them that each of us was elected on that Constitution and first of all to that Constitution must be faithful, not to the discipline of the Group or to the dictatorship of a premier. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC, Mixed and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u56	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we already know that we will remain unheard of and that the alternative timetable we are about to propose will not be supported even remotely by the majority of the members of the Senate. This too will remain in the Reports of the Senate and in history for those who want and will be able to judge in the future who has really tried to prevent the danger that we have been fearing for some time, that of an authoritarian drift of the democratic system of the country. [[Applause from the M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]] We know that we are a minority, an opposition, and we carry out our work as always pragmatically, in maximum freedom, unlike those who today, like yesterday and certainly tomorrow, want to paint us in the way well known by the media and political system. Today we once again claim the greatest freedom to say no to the nefarious project of the great accelerator and of those who submit to it, perhaps for the interests of personal carrierism. Having said that, Mr President, the timetable that we are submitting to the vote of this House provides that next week, since the afternoon sitting on Monday 14 July, the anti-corruption package (the Bill No 19 and related) will be examined. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] In fact, while we continue to witness every day sentences, i.e. precautionary measures or arrests, against this political class, we are still wasting time. And this - let us remember - also because of the government: the Executive in fact made us waste at least two months in firing anti-corruption measures. We have also learned, not without surprise, that the session of the 2nd The permanent Commission, which has already been convened for today, has been uncalled for; it will be convened again tomorrow, but in the Bureau. As a group of the 5 Star Movement, we will be firm to ensure that the timetable for the work of that Commission immediately provides for the vote on the amendments and therefore the dismissal of the bill n. 19 and related. The proposed modification of the timetable therefore provides for the inclusion in the next week of the examination of the draft law on corruption and the advance of the discussion of the decree-competitiveness law, for which the deadline for the submission of amendments will expire on Monday 14 July. Therefore, next week could be fruitfully employed to examine the draft law on anti-corruption and for the decree-competitiveness law, thus leading to the slippage to the following week, which begins on Monday, July 21, the examination of the reform constitution of the Senate, which we consider harmful. In this way, the time would be guaranteed for decanting and analysing the text that will be dismissed, with the amendments that are not yet known to the members of the 1st Commission. I therefore call for this timetable to be put to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u59	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I believe that the old adage which states that in politics the arrangements lay down for the purposes fit this situation. Without prejudice to and without prejudice to the sovereign determination of the Conference of Leaders, I appeal to you, Mr President, not so much to subvert what the Leaders have decided, but to invite them to reflect in their capacity as President of the Senate. The doctors in this Chamber, those who are familiar with medicine, know that there are forty-eight hours for peritonitis too. We are putting our hands on the Constitutional Charter of this country, which, I remind myself, was drafted by the constituent assembly and, without offense to anyone, I don't see Calamandrei in here, I don't see Dossetti, I don't see Moro. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If those people with that value and that cultural and political depth took a year to write it, I believe that the fact that two people meet and make a pact, then asking Parliament, and then the Senate, to ratify it, to examine it in a few days, as if it were a ritual fulfillment, one of the many decrees-laws, is wrong. And it's wrong because there's no time, there's no mode. Moreover, alive god, when this comes from the left there are not even the roundabouts, the purple peoples, the Zagrebelskys, the Flores d'Arcais to be concerned by the amendment of the Constitution. Obviously there is not only dual morality, but also double political value, because woe if this procedure had imposed it the centerright a few years ago: he would have shouted at terrorism, he would have shouted at the coup d'état, he would have shouted at the face of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Mandelli and Liuzzi senators.]] Instead, there is a young man who, like Madame Verdurin, has to change the hat because he has to prove in Berlin or Brussels that he has done something, and we as belanti sheep are going to follow him. But we are not all sheep, Mr President. What Dumas used to say is that between an evil man and an idiot I prefer the first because he sometimes rests. I see a lot of jerks in a hurry here, and they think out of tune every single day! We are touching the Constitutional Charter of this nation, and if we go in a hurry it is to send the Senate home next year. I'm one of the ones who'd like to leave, but I don't know if anyone in here has figured this out. The modality and haste serve that timing, therefore for political contingency: not for constitutional architecture. [[Applause from the LAG and M5S groups.]] Not to improve the functioning of republican institutions. Not everyone is silly servants. I don't have the calling to carry that kilo and a half of gray mass that I'm equipped with in the cluster. Let it be said that politics has decided to dissolve the Senate and to bring the Italian people to election, to the mutual satisfaction of Guy or Caius: it may also be that this pateracchio could vote for it. But you have to tell us, because we can also be sheep, but not foolish and belative sheep. [[Applause from the LAG, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u60	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the proceedings of the Assembly, put forward by Senator De Petris, which provides for Monday 14th the beginning of the debate on the draft anti-corruption law and Wednesday 16th the discussion of the constitutional reform bill. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Buccarella, which provides for Monday 14 discussion of the bill anti-corruption and, to follow, the discussion of the decree-competitiveness law. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u63	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to express my solidarity and closeness - and I hope this House as a whole - to the inhabitants of the areas of Milan affected by the Seveso exodus of the other day: yet another exodus, which has caused considerable damage to things, floods and destruction. (at 12.30 a.m.) (Following MIRABELLI). The interventions of the Civil Protection and the measures adopted in recent years, after the umpteenth exondation occurred in 2010, have limited the damage that has produced this exondation, but not the inconveniences for the people. [[Brusio. References by the President]] I think it is important - and I would like to remind you here - for the insurance and the commitment that the City of Milan has made to compensate traders... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u64	Senator Mirabelli, wait a minute. I would ask the members of this House who wish to remain in this Chamber to lower their voices, or else to speed up their exit. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u65	I believe it is important - I said - that the City of Milan has undertaken to ensure that the traders and citizens who have suffered significant material damage will be compensated. I want to say, however, in this House that this is not enough, that it is no longer possible to waste time, that these floods have been repeated too much and too often, that an entire territory of a large city such as Milan cannot live with such a situation, with this constant danger. For years we have chosen the road of doubling the Seveso melter and that of the construction of the rolling tank to the north of Milan to prevent Seveso from exondating in the city on these occasions. There is funding as well as deliberations: we do not understand why this is not done. There is money made available by the Municipality and the Region. Today it is necessary for the Region to do these interventions as soon as possible. After yesterday, the delays are even more incomprehensible, as are even more incomprehensible the shyness of the Region to realize the plants decided and to take all the necessary initiatives to clean the Seveso and make the rolling tanks less impacting on the territories on which they will be built.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u68	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, the subject of my speech concerns the failure to issue the implementing decrees relating to certain articles of the Italian Decree-Law "Destinazione Italia" which was converted into law and published in the Official Journal on 22 February. I would remind you that for that approval all of us senators took part in a river sitting and that the majority was absolutely compact and none of the many amendments that the opposition tabled there was approved. I would also remind you that that conversion into law was so armored as the times for the conversion into law were now running out of time and at the same time the Letta Government had already fallen and the Renzi Government had not yet settled in, so it had to be done soon. But then why so much haste, if after now 130 days much of that law lies in a limbo for lack of the implementing decree? Allow me to say that this is frankly inexplicable, and it is even more so if you read the statements of the ministers Guidi and Padoan, who have repeatedly stated, through the specialised press, that the time taken to issue the implementing decree would be swift, that the same decree was on the table of the MEF and that by mid-June everything would be resolved. We are now in mid-July and nothing has happened. My speech does not want to provoke scandal but, more concretely, it wants to call for certain answers and, above all, given certain dates of the adoption of this implementing decree. In particular, I refer to Article 3 which deals with the tax credit for research and innovation activities carried out by small and medium-sized enterprises, both independently and in conjunction with research bodies recognised by the State and contracted to qualified third parties. My group had tabled several improvements, of which I cannot, of course, and I do not want to discuss them here. We would simply like the law not to be betrayed and implemented. I would also remind you that there is also the parliamentary question 3-00937, first signed by Mr Tomaselli, which is still unanswered. So, there is a sovereign uncertainty. Italian companies are practically forced to postpone any investment in research and technological innovation due to this uncertainty, and I do not make any further comments. Each innovative push awaits the enactment of this implementing decree. It is July and, if it is not issued in a very short time, companies will have to skip an entire year of investment, compared to the rest of Europe (where, in most virtuous countries, tax credit is a stable and secure law for more years). We are waiting for the implementing decree. Mr President, my time is running out, so I would like to be able to deliver the full text of my speech to be annexed to the report, urging the Presidency to urge the Government in turn to finally issue the implementing decree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u71	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, the tragedy of the Moby Prince in Livorno caused 140 victims; to date there is no culprit. One point never clarified, because of the strict restraint by the authorities, is the possible presence in the radia of American civil and military ships and other nations and their eventual activities. It has been ascertained both from the minutes and from the registers that many ships transited and stopped in the port of Livorno in the night of the accident, but there are some areas of shadow never clarified. Some hypotheses push to affirm that the tragedy is to be put in relation to the illicit traffics of military weapons happened the night of the accident in the port of Livorno. They were politically schizophrenic years, dark years: 1991, Moby Prince massacre; 1992, Capaci massacre and D'Amelio massacre; 1993, Georgofili massacre; 1994, Ilaria Alpi killing, investigating arms trafficking and toxic waste. It was the age of politics on its knees. It was 1994, the year in which a Mafia convicted man founded together with a tax fraud convicted piduist a new party that began from there to govern our country. As 5 Star Movement on March 27, 2014, we presented a bill for the establishment of a bicameral commission of inquiry to shed light on what happened on April 10, 1991 in Livorno. President Grasso, I trust you and your will to finally give political and credible answers, and I appeal above all to President Renzi: I remind you that to make certain choices you must have free hands. I remind you, President Renzi, that with the convicted piduist he is making agreements to upset our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President Renzi, I tell you here, from this institutional seat, not from a newspaper article or from a TV talk show on Tuesday or Wednesday evening: Mr President, we must give political answers and, in order to do so, we must have the strength to give these political responses. We are launching this Commission of Inquiry: not only do we ask you of the 5 Star Movement, but the whole of Italy is asking you to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-275.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.38 p.m.
