ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u4	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11.07 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u10	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would kindly ask for an interpretation, I do not know if it is authentic, but I do ask for an opinion on how we can understand in the near future what is dictated by paragraph 7 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. At the end of the last sitting, as provided for in Rule 55 (7), Senator Buccarella asked the Presidency, supported by eight senators, to include a debate on an issue in relation to the situation which has occurred and which is urgent. The President... Can you explain what the subject was? PETROCELLI (M5S). Yes, Mr President: we were referring to the request, which has already been made on other occasions, that the abolition of the Provinces, i.e. draft law No 131, should be discussed. The question, Mr President, is as follows. We would like to understand whether, apart from the fact that this could or could not constitute an urgent situation, it was not in the powers of President Lanzillotta not to pass to the vote of this request, as it would seem to us that paragraph 7 should be interpreted, or whether President Lanzillotta has acted correctly. I ask why, in future situations, we can really understand how to proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u11	The opinion on the admissibility of any request made by a senator is the responsibility of the Presidency. The President-in-Office considered the request inadmissible because it did not refer to an urgent situation, in accordance with the stated rule of the Rules of Procedure. A judgment of inadmissibility was therefore given. Among other things, as you have already mentioned, the Presidency today points out that the Assembly had already rejected the inclusion in the timetable of the aforementioned draft law No 131 on the abolition of the Provinces at its meeting on 1 July 2014. Therefore, the request to include the examination of that bill in the schedule of proceedings had also been the subject of a resolution by the House. The question cannot therefore be referred again and the request is still inadmissible, as is the case at all times when eligibility can be assessed by the Presidency-in-office. PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for a brief reply, or rather a clarification. So is it up to the Presidency to decide whether the request is admissible or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the request is admissible or not. PETROCELLI (M5S). So, whether to proceed or not to proceed to the vote by show of hands on that request. Right? Did I get that right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, eligibility refers to those that are the requirements of the request that, from time to time, is advanced. That's obvious to me. It is not that the vote is excluded or not in relation to a will, but in relation to the motivation of the request and, therefore, to the judgment of admissibility. It seems to me that this is obvious. Okay? Can we move on? PETROCELLI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, again on this Rule, this is clearly an interpretation, because you mention the fact that on 1 July last we had asked for an urgent vote, again with reference to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. It is not specified that it cannot be put to the vote a second time. It is a question of preventing this from becoming a practice which is not written in the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not a practice. Maybe I didn't explain myself. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you kindly tell me the reference. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've kindly already told you what I had to say. I am telling you that this is not a practice: it is necessary to assess, from time to time, the occurrence of the situation and the urgency, and it is up to the President to judge. I don't think there's anything else. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that in what you are doing to me further... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can't have a dialogue right now. SANTANGELO (M5S). I do not want to have a dialogue: I am intervening on the Rules of Procedure. I'm kindly asking you a question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already answered her. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, you didn't answer me, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll decide if I've answered. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you let me finish, fine, otherwise I'll shut up and move on. I assure you, however, that you are not giving me a President-in-Office clarification in this way. The issue has already been explained by your Parent Company. SANTANGELO (M5S). She didn't even let me talk. Mr President, I am not being polite, but you are not letting me speak! (Senator Santangelo bangs the Rules of Procedure on the bench. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u15	The issue has already been explained by its Parent Company. Try to be disciplined.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u16	Let's move on. SANTANGELO (M5S). And it's twice! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you repeat the things that have already been said, it is clear that we must move on. If you want to talk, you can always talk. He never had the imposition of not talking at my place. Then speak, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, excuse me. You won't let me say what I have to say. Among other things, the Senate audio system takes away my voice and only you have it. So the image that passes outside is not one of the most delicious, even if you always have the same smile. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look what she said she wanted to shut up. Let's not do these sterile polemics. Let's get on with the work. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you have not yet let me speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You said you wanted to shut up and you even threw the Rules of Procedure on the stand! SANTANGELO (M5S). I put the Rules of Procedure on the stand because you won't let me talk! Let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Try to behave in accordance with this House. Do you understand? That's enough! [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). And you're trying to be respectful of me! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u17	Say what you have to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u18	SANTANGELO (M5S). You must have a respectful attitude towards all senators! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u19	Say what you have to say and don't put the Rules of Procedure on the stand anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u20	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I bang it every time I see fit. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u21	Okay. I'll take my steps.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u22	SANTANGELO (M5S). Do what's in your power. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But why do we always have to exasperate the tones? I don't get it. Why do you always have to exasperate your tones? SANTANGELO (M5S). You're not letting me talk, Mr. President. Presidenet. But you want to create war? Let's create war. You want to cause the accident? Let's create the accident. But why? SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am asking you to speak on the Rules of Procedure. She doesn't want to do that. I don't want to make any war. I take note of your behavior and give up my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, I take note that you're quitting surgery. SANTANGELO (M5S). But if you demand respect, you must respect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I respect that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u25	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wish to speak on the same subject, having been present and also having the opportunity to take up the substance of the matter. I would like to read to the House what the reference provision specifies. Paragraph 7 of Rule 55 states that: "The Assembly may, at the end of each sitting, decide, on a proposal from the President or at the request of the Government or of eight senators, in relation to situations The President's right to admit or not to admit is not specified. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but do you want to keep reading? You have read only one part: on what the proposal? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's read it all through, Mr. President. We start training, because then there are all the amendments to read. I quote: 'in relation to situations which have arisen and are urgent'. Survivors and urgent. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). ... to include in the calendar items which are also not included in the programme, provided that they do not make it impossible for them to be carried out and, where appropriate, to hold the additional sessions necessary for their treatment. In the same way, the Assembly may reverse the order of arguments set out in the calendar. The abovementioned deliberations shall be adopted by vote by show of hands after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group and for no more than 10 minutes each. That's the end of the argument. Mr President, what I hope is that there will be a somewhat more respectful approach to the powers of the Senate and the senators. I understand that it is slipping towards an authoritarian drift, where the monocrate decides for all; but if it is written here that eight senators can request it, it is equally clear, as in any other part of the Rules of Procedure, that, when it is the power of the President to admit or not to admit, it is specified. I'm doing this surgery to try and knock out the moods.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u26	If you read Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, it says that any decision on the admissibility of requests is the responsibility of the President. So there is a general rule that then applies to everything, even if it is not provided for in this standard. Now I do not want to continue on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, please inform us about how the end of the sitting took place: those who chaired the Chamber did not even give the proposed senators the opportunity to complete the operation. There was even a request for a quorum check by Senator Russo, with the senators not even present to be able to do so, with the closure of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u28	The request for a quorum shall be preliminary to a vote. If the vote is declared inadmissible... Now it is not that we can continue to do this parliamentary law lesson for everyone's benefit, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u29	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, you are on the highest level and so you are always there, don't worry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm not worried. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). However, if Senator Russo had asked for a quorum check, it means that there were different assumptions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u30	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general debate continued at the afternoon sitting on 17 July. He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to this debate with great interest. I have also read the most important speeches from the parliamentary reports. All the speakers have dealt with this issue with the importance it required, many also with the courage that this topic required, stressing - I will not return to it - with punctuality the gaps, defects and inconsistencies of this which is called reform, but which reform is not. We must have the courage to call things by their name: this is a counter-reform, it is not a constitutional reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is a backwardness of popular sovereignty, with a brutal retrocession of the Senate's elective power from citizens to local castes, already shattered by all kinds of criminal and accounting judiciary. Well, this we are going to vote on and examine article by article is a boulder; not a rock, it is a boulder that is hurled on the highway of democracy and that can derail our country and our democracy. This is the danger that we run, and we must have the courage to say it, to say it now, to say it today. Someone evoked the P2 and the democratic rebirth plan. However, we must have a long memory: simply, the P2 resumed the themes that have continued to affect a part of our country from 1946 to today, that part that has never fully accepted democracy and that has always proposed limitations to popular sovereignty. Well it has been said: it is a backwardness to indirect democracy, not representative nineteenth century. This time, however, power hides its fierce face, it does not appear with the face of Pavolini or Farinacci, but with icons, good for a television nativity scene, reassuring, that never anyone would think to be sent to take sovereignty and democracy from citizens in this country. We call it counter-reform and we are entitled to do so because we have been sent by the citizens, as the 5 Star Movement, to make the reforms and for a year now we have been ready to make those reforms. The reforms that the citizens asked us, simple, clear, understandable to all: a reduction in the number of parliamentarians of both Chambers, so that the balance of powers would not be altered as this counter-reform does, concentrating or subduing to the executive power all the powers that are typical of a democracy. Well it has been pointed out by a colleague who said that the government, unable to govern, takes on itself the legislative power. It reminded me of the many hearings we have held together, during which we have clearly seen Ministers in the hands of small oligarchies and small bureaucracies, which govern in fact, and which are addressed and heterodirected by them. Well, we are faced with exactly this phenomenon. There is a transnational technocratic oligarchy, legitimized by economic power, which has never accepted the power of the citizens and which, at the rise of the possibility of a true reform by the 5 Star Movement, has put in place all the resources possible to block it, because this is the meaning of such a reform. When we asked for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, for the reduction and cuts in waste and emoluments, for the reduction of immunity and other prebende that offend Italian citizens, there was no answer! On the contrary, the answer was this counter-reform, which increases the number of signatures required for the referendum, in which the sovereignty of the citizens is reduced, in which we go in the direction absolutely contrary to the will expressed by our citizens with the vote of 25 February last year. We are not opposed to reforms, colleagues, we want reforms; but we think that reforms, in order to be legitimate, must be discussed in legitimate forums, with qualified and legitimate interlocutors, not discredited by judgments and their own behaviour, which offend our country in the eyes of the whole world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These are not reforms that are born well: they are reforms that are already born sick, that have inside the vulnus to try to narrow the spaces of democracy and participation in our country. I must acknowledge the courage of those who, in contrast to their party leaders, have expressed in this House, but also outside, all their concern, which is the concern of the 5 Star Movement: the concern that we take an irreversible path. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a law like all the others: it is a constitutional law. It will not be easy to remedy the disasters that this law will cause. The Constitutional Court will not be able to intervene. The powers will be altered. Once we have put in the hands of the head of the majority, the President of the Council, the control of the other powers of this country, it will be difficult, colleagues, to go back. It is not something that, in some time, if we see what is wrong, can be amended. See that a serious fact has already happened, and you have seen it with the electoral law: a wrong electoral law, a scumbag, to sanction which it took years and the intervention of the Constitutional Court; and we are still here to discuss electoral law. Let us think of a constitutional reform. With the one under consideration we risk taking the road that leads us to Weimar, we risk an explosion of the very serious and exitial system for our country. I invite those who love him, those who want to defend him, regardless of his belongings, belief and political color, to intervene now, because now we must defend our country, not tomorrow when it is too late! Now we all have to intervene! There will be no tomorrow for this country with this reform! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who can do it now: do whatever you can, inside and outside these classrooms, and do it now, because later it will be too late. We as 5 Star Movement will constantly and proudly go in a stubborn and contrary direction to these reforms that we do not accept! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with the phrase of one who is one of the fathers of this country, even if he has been very often offended by it, and also serious. This great man, whose work must inspire us to this day and whose example speaks to us, more than twenty years ago said: The institutions have a duty to expel politicians close to the Mafia, to be honest and appear to be such. This was Paolo Borsellino, the one we unworthyly remembered on Saturday with a shameful sentence that offends our country! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me to thank the rapporteurs, the Government and all those who participated in the Commission and in this House for the contribution they have made with their speeches and amendments so far to improve the text proposed by the Government. A thought goes to President Renzi because for the first time, certainly aware that constitutional reforms and institutional system must be done with the participation of all and with the search for the widest possible consensus, he immediately chose President Berlusconi, head of the opposition and - I add - the only dialogue. Reforms, a good rule, must, when possible, be done with the agreement of all. This is the first time, because the attempts made in the last twenty years have always seen opposing majority and opposition, and this has not been of good auspicious, noted also the unhappy results. The Government, therefore, presented its own draft law which, together with 52 others, was considered worthy of being voted on and approved as the basic text for the amendment phase. I have also heard a number of speeches and criticisms about the government's involvement in constitutional matters. I want to remind the detractors that it has almost become a practice for the Government to intervene with its own bill: it has already happened with the 2001 and 2005 reforms, approved by Parliament and then rejected by the popular referendum. The text of the Government has come out of the Commission with substantial and not formal changes, some of which have seen us protagonists. Alacre and positive at this stage was the work of the rapporteurs and of the offices: to the members all - I repeat - goes my most heartfelt thanks. On the opportunities for reform, I try to justify the senators in the first legislature, when they show wonder and little conviction; others forget, however, that what we are discussing is an issue that has been tried in every legislature to deal with with not brilliant results. I want not only to refer to the attempts by Bozzi and Iotti-De Mita, but also, and above all, to the attempt by D'Alema, the Speroni Committee, our 2005 reform, the 2007 Violante draft and the last attempt made in this House in the last parliamentary term. In particular, I would like to point out that the Speroni Committee and the Violante draft provided for an indirect election of the senators. I would also point out that, both in our 2005 reform and in the Speroni Committee's reform, there was provision for the status of oppositions, which I shall focus on later. Here I want to address immediately the subject to which the press, the media, a part of the doctrine and a significant part of this House have devoted a large part of the debate. I am referring to the election of members of the Senate, which can take place directly or indirectly. I do not want to avoid some reflections, but I believe that this is not the fundamental problem of this reform: this is a reform of the system and not just of the Senate. Elective or non-elective, the Senate is destined to be something else from what we know today. Some have said that it is the constitutionalisation of the State-Regions Conference; others that the functions will be so residual that little will affect the legislative and executive relationship. Of course it will be the Chamber of Deputies that will become the real and perhaps only interlocutor of the Government, where there will be - if this bill is approved, together with the electoral law, the so-called Italicum - the same political majority or coalition, both in the House and in the Executive. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we need to focus our attention on; this is where we need to strengthen the powers of the opposition and the citizens because it is in this dual mix that the institutional break-up is insinuated. The effort, therefore, must not move so much on the elective method of the Senate, but, with greater vigour, in seeking together all those forms of protection of the opposition and minorities in order to avoid plebiscite drift. I shall now turn to a few significant changes. First of all, it's about the non-elective Senate. We have already said - I repeat - that the senators represent the territorial institutions and not the territories. Therefore, the members will not be chosen directly by the citizens: they will be elected, as we already know, by the regional advisers with proportional criteria, taking into account the composition of each Assembly. The members are 100: 5 elected by the Head of State, 95 - of which 74 regional councillors - will be elected in each Region. As for the process, the reform puts an end to the perfect bicameralism. Only the House votes for trust in the Government and becomes the main driver of the legislative function. The Senate may propose changes to ordinary laws, but the House may disregard them. The Senate continues to maintain full legislative competence over constitutional reforms and laws. On the State-Regions relationship the House may not follow the requests of the Senate, only rejecting them by an absolute majority, so also for the budget laws. The Head of State is elected by 630 MPs plus 100 senators. There are no regional delegates. In the first four scrutins the majority of the two thirds is needed; in the next four the threshold is lowered to three fifths; from the ninth the absolute majority is sufficient. As regards immunity, as provided for in Article 68 of the Charter, it applies to senators as well as Members. Parliament's work remains unassailable and Parliament's authorization is needed for interceptions, searches and arrests. On this point, allow me to reflect. We have voted that senators should also have the same right to immunity as Members of the House of Deputies. But the assumption that this reasoning was based on it, finding its logical consequence, was that the senators were directly elected by the citizens. If, as it seems, the election of senators is indirect, and so it is made by regional councillors, perhaps it is to be reviewed the institute of immunity for senators. In this case, it may be limited to the part relating to the declarations and votes cast. I also call for further reflection on this by the Government and the rapporteurs. We anticipated the referendum, increasing the signatures from 500,000 to 800,000. After the first 400,000, the Council gives an opinion on eligibility for validity, and changes the quorum: the share of the necessary voters is equal to half plus one of the voters in the last parliamentary elections. We have largely revised Article 117. Some of the most significant competences, such as energy, transport, strategic infrastructure, have been brought back to the State, and it has been added that when the protection of the economic or legal unity of the Republic, or the protection of the national interest, the Chamber can approve laws in the fields of competence of the Regions. Finally, CNEL is abolished. Another thing that seems to me to be of serious importance is that the Government can ask the House of Deputies for a measure to have a pre-defined time frame and therefore priority. The time for approval is 60 days, with everything that follows. I would like to make a brief comment on a number of points which I think need to be further examined. As far as the popular legislative initiative is concerned, in my view access must be as easy as possible, and the increase in the number of signatures goes in the opposite direction; as is the opposite of the request for a referendum which increases the number of signatures requested to one million. I repeat, if it is true that with the approval of this project, combined with the approval of Italicum, we are moving towards a system of fact monocameral (or bicameral improper) with majority system, we have a duty to strengthen the controls and guarantees. I do not want to think of a society in which a coalition or a party wins the elections with one more vote and thus enjoy the appointment of the Premier, the President of the Republic, in a qualifying way affect the composition of the Constitutional Court and the CSM. This hypothesis, of everything in the hands of one, can only live if we balance our democratic life with balanced balances. Otherwise, we are all destined to live dark times. This is not allowed to us, and we must all make a further effort so that authoritarian drifts cannot even be hypothesized. So, let there be a provision in the Constitution that the Rules of Procedure should provide for the Statute of Oppositions, but, and I address the rapporteurs as well as the Government, is it enough to do what we have written or will need further study? I think so. Therefore, strengthen the powers of control, for example by not increasing the audience of citizens needed for quorums, but by leaving it unchanged or decreasing it. Let us make this further effort together, otherwise the work done would be incomplete and lead to damage that we cannot even predict in its entirety today. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the work that has been done so far, which has seen us as the protagonists of the improvements made, will be followed with great interest in the further amendment phase, ensuring that we will not lose our support and our votes for a reform that we have wanted and that we will seek to improve together. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the amendments, we will soon move from words to deeds. There is still room to say what our intentions are to deal with this passage. All I can do is use words that are a bit obvious and already used by others: you have to do quickly and do well. About making the Senate soon split up, but delaying is not good. We must finally start the concrete construction of the reform, today we are only at the first act of a long work. Moreover, great expectations have been activated around this reform, in Italy and not only; if we were to delay still, a strong criticism would rise from the country because we do not deal with the other great problems of citizens, those of the economy, of the work and of the social, not to mention the great international dramas from Gaza, Ukraine, the Sicily Canal: a moving thought goes from this House to all the innocent victims of these immense and unacceptable tragedies. [[Applause]] A crucial link combines institutional reforms and the revival of the economy. We want to complete the reform because it also serves the objective of overcoming the crisis. Economic and employment data remain hard; there are no winning shortcuts, neither with the depressive strategies adopted so far, nor with the evoke of large investment programmes. The resources for active fiscal and development policies will come from the reorganisation of the instruments known so far. Even to beat evasion, corruption and crime requires a leap in efficiency, coordination and governance, so the efficiency of the institutions is a decisive factor. How many times do we read or say ourselves that one of the biggest obstacles to the dynamism of the country is the old age of our institutional, legislative and bureaucratic system. Sometimes the inadequacy of the institutions provides an alibi for renunciation and corporate behaviour on the part of civil society itself, but the issue cannot be avoided, especially if read in a European way. We all say no to one-way austerity, to rigour that does not guarantee growth and social justice. This consensus is beautiful, but it will not be easy to loosen the grip, especially with the high budget deficits that weigh on many countries, Italy first. One of the keys to changing European policy is to speed up the reform strategy, as the Government says: a more careful and flexible management of Community agreements would thus be possible. So let us not oppose institutional reforms and actions for growth; it is the populist vulgate who says that this is not the priority of the country, that the Senate should take care of else. That's not the way it is. A modern and effective institutional system is one of the conditions for recovery; the gap between economic reform and institutional reform opens the way for populism and anti-politics and removes the possibilities for a new positive cycle. In the sign of reform, the same concern for competitiveness and work changes nature, because we do so in a more advanced context in which we are all called to reason in more rigorous and coherent terms. All of us, Parliament, but also the Government, who calls for rigour and coherence on the new institutional structure and from which we expect rigour and consistency in drawing up draft laws and decrees-laws. Finally, I would find it very useful that, after the four days devoted to the reform debate, an in-depth session could take place on the Italian and European economic situation, also in view of the forthcoming stability law. So do quickly, but also do well, which means to build the broadest possible consensus of politics, but also of the social and cultural forces of the country; to modernise and simplify really so that the institutions do their job better; to renew the Constitution without losing its values and care for the balances and counterweights, the guarantees and the quality of democracy. There has been a great deal of discussion on this issue in this House and outside. A number of colleagues have found the right arguments, in my opinion, to say how misleading it is to feed the spectre of authoritarian drift and the emptying of democracy and the Constitution, as I also proposed this morning in strong tones by my colleague Giarrusso. Of course, the concern about representativeness, guarantees and system balances is serious and worthy of respect, as is the proposal of a Senate of guarantees. But it is not even a banality to work on the other great option, the Senate of the Autonomies, expression of territorial institutions, zipper of connection between state and regional and local governments and instrument of connection with the decisive European dimension. Mr President, I belong to that generation of local and regional administrators who for over twenty years have fought with conviction for healthy and effective regionalism and responsible, cooperative and supportive federalism. I have worked for these objectives, although conscious of the limits and errors of the cities and regions, because I believe that it was to be defeated - also for the purposes of a democratic enlargement of the country, I stress - the Italy of ministerial bureaucracies, of intrusive and inconclusive centralism and the suffocating overpower of Roman politics over what lives in the territories. It was a battle not only for the decentralisation of services, let us not trivialize it: it was and is a battle for new balances in our institutional system; for a new type of guarantees, those connected to the proximity of citizens and to the greater accessibility of the public thing; for another direction of democracy, not only high-low, but also center-periphery, the direction that goes from the state to the self-government. Democracy is participation, pluralism and the valorization of differences, they are very much in agreement: then, it is strengthened if the state institutions open, if the country decentralizes, if it makes its different vital poles a positive force of dynamic thrust and participation, of control over the activity of the State and of guarantee of national unity. My willingness for this reform, even with the limits I see - which I hope we will overcome - stems from the conviction that the Senate of the Autonomouss is also a Senate of guarantees, while the Senate of guarantees proposed by other senators cannot be a Senate of the Autonomouss. If we had had the Senate of the Autonomies in 2001, the history of Title V of Part II of the Constitution would have been another: we would not have had to measure its criticalities and have to correct the shot. I would like to start by saying that the rapporteurs and the Commission have improved the basic text on Title V and the legislative function of the Senate: there was too much centralism, which is now correct in the right sense. The regions certainly have a lot to rationalize and review - in my opinion, even their number and size - but we certainly cannot go back to the period before 2001, because it would be antihistorical and irrational. One point remains unresolved, in my opinion, that of the general and common provisions: what laws will they bring to them? Painting and organic laws, unique texts or any measure, including omnibus and milleproroghe? In the first case, the enhanced majority clause should apply to give weight to the Senate's opinion; in the second case, we should prepare ourselves for a low quality of legislation. Now, in the logic of the Senate of the Autonomies, it is the representatives of the Regions and the mayors, already elected by the citizens, who form the Assembly; no one can do it for them. The election of second degree is therefore not a heresy: it is a choice that has its own logic and that can be shared or not, but not equated with a backwardness of democracy. The model must certainly work and there must be that continental peculiarity evoked by the rapporteurs. We will talk about this by discussing the amendments. I trust that the House, which is less emotionally involved than we are, will also reflect on us in depth, and I ask the Government to keep a real debate open in the transition between this and the other branch of Parliament, so that we can further refine and build a broader consensus. They are therefore among those who bet on the innovative and expansive character, even from the democratic point of view, of the Senate of the Autonomies. There will be no authoritarian drift if the living body of our autonomy enters Parliament and participates directly in the legislative function. We must not be afraid of this passage. It may be the occasion of an opening of institutions to a broader vision, of an original connection with the populations administered. With this we will be able to cultivate a great objective: the relaunch of the constitutional value of autonomy, its becoming a ferment of a policy close to the citizens. Even so, democracy is being relaunched and expanded substantially and not only formally. I am surprised by the colleagues of the League who do not see this opportunity and proudly oppose a reform that raises the autonomy of Parliament and the Republic. Here, then, as I see it: if the Democratic Party Group had convinced itself that the reform causes injuries to republican democracy, after having discussed it infinitely, it would have worked to rewrite it from scratch. The PD was born to strengthen and innovate democracy in our country: it is called the Democratic Party precisely for this reason. Since its inception it has been measured by the unprecedented difficulties of contemporary democracy and the signs of its weariness, themes that, for the sake of truth, come from afar, affect all societies and are born well before this reform. Today the PD is the decisive barrier against the advancement of populism and anti-Europeanism, which is the precondition for any democratic reconstruction. Those who vote for the reform are not unwise and unresponsive to the future of democracy. On the contrary, I assure you that the ideal, cultural and political tension will never fail from our ranks, so that the Constitutional Charter lives and enjoys good health. On this ground, in any case, we can still make progress. There are positive amendments on important issues. I am thinking of the proposed referendum and the instruments of direct democracy, where the time is ripe to put Italy at the forefront. I am thinking of the system of election of the President of the Republic and the enlargement of the electoral college. I am thinking of gender equality, which is not only a matter of balance, but is an exquisitely democratic issue. The government has declared its openness to further improvements in this House. The Commission has made an important contribution, marking the text with its work, and I warmly thank the rapporteurs, the Commission and the offices. It is important that this House should also be able to do so, in the name of a proactive and effective parliamentarism. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the media are presenting our debate as a moment of division and confrontation between the parties and in the parties. Most of it's true, but it's not like that. We share the idea of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, simplifying and speeding up the life of institutions, reducing the numbers and costs of politics, updating institutional architecture, especially in relation to Europe. I propose that we use the common message of a Parliament that really wants to complete the reform of the institutional system and modernise Italy. Otherwise we will not beat anti-politics and disaffection and we will not do a service to politics and democracy. We'll give arguments to whoever the Senate really wants to close it, cancel it. Beyond the different and legitimate options in the field, on which we discuss with passion and respect, we all intend to carry out this commitment without fear and without uncertainty, because we feel it is impossible to postpone again. This message speaks to the country: it too needs to be shaken, to deal decisively with the agenda of cultural, civic and moral change. The Senate changes its skin, but still has a high task to do: to tell the country, starting from itself, that the time of change has arrived, that it does not scare us and that, with all the wisdom and prudence necessary, this time we will not stop in half of the ford. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u36	The general debate is closed. Before moving on to replicas, I would like to thank the Senate Offices that, without time limits, night or morning, working or festive, have given the opportunity today to start our work. [[Applause.]] I call the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these conclusions come after 30 hours of general discussion, preceded by an examination in the Commission which saw twenty-eight hours of general discussion and a survey in which many experts participated. Several meetings were then devoted to the examination of the amendments. Meanwhile, many initiatives in the country, in universities, organized by parties, foundations and associations have been dedicated to the theme we are dealing with today. The public debate on the media took on an emphasis, an extent and had a prolonged space. Moreover, we also came from the work of the Commission set up by the Letta Government, the Commission of Experts, from their final report, from an online consultation organized by the Letta Government and - I would like to remind you - from a debate on overcoming the prefect bicameralism and also on the issues related to Article 117 of Part II of the Constitution that given many years (at least thirty, that on overcoming the prefect bicameralism). There have been many, many, and perhaps countless, opportunities for discussion both in the parliamentary classrooms and outside the parliamentary classrooms. To say, therefore, that the work we are dealing with is marked by haste, sudden accelerations and approximation, in my opinion, is not really consistent with the reality of the facts. I do not believe, however, that it should affect the continuation of our debate (so as rapporteurs we do not consider it to be relevant) the importance that this House is not entitled to discuss the text, nor is it equally legitimate to discuss the text the House of Deputies. Beyond all political considerations, as I said in the report, I believe that we are faced with a constitutional duty to reform our system. The Constitutional Court has expressly underlined the full legitimacy of the two representative Assemblies of the Chamber and Senate, although elected by a law declared unconstitutional. Moreover, as Senator Tonini said, I would like to remind my colleagues that what we are measuring ourselves with from now on is not the text of the bill presented by the Government, but it is a child text, the result of parliamentary work that has broken down for many weeks and has seen such a complete participation not only of the Members of the Commission. This in a framework in which, moreover - as Senator Tonini once again said - nothing prevents in our constitutional system (and in fact in the course of the legislative process) government initiatives in constitutional matters. Legislative initiative, which, moreover, was combined with 53 other proposals, the suggestions of which were a lively part of our debate and in many ways were incorporated into the text of the rapporteurs. It is certainly not easy to draw the line of a debate, which has been purely political and which has insisted on issues on which I do not even know how much I fit to respond. Yet these were issues that inflamed the debate in this House and fed it (I still heard echoes of it today in Senator Giarrusso's speech). So perhaps a few words on this point should be said in order to begin our work under the guise of an agreement between us on what are the essential prerequisites for this debate. We have heard many times echo a further presumptuously delegitimanate element, namely that the President of the Council would not be entitled to propose reform, and so strongly to make it an identifying feature of his initiative, because he was not elected. Perhaps it is worth remembering that in a parliamentary system this is irrelevant, noting only the confidence given by the Chambers to support the full legitimacy of a President of the Council and its Government. But that's not what I want to talk about. This is an element that also shows the purely political nature that marked the general debate, in some sense and to some extent, also for this verse, and will make the conclusions of the two rapporteurs more difficult. But a more specific argument has been used to contest the composition of the Senate and the election of second degree that determines it; this has been a topic present in many of the speeches of colleagues. In the report, but also in the conduct of the work of the Commission, as rapporteurs, Mr Calderoli and I have insisted very much that the first definition of the new Senate should come from the functions and powers that we were able to attribute to it rather than from its composition. And in this sense we insisted: you know that our reports have been marked by our care, which was then taken care of by the Commission and which has been translated into the text that has been brought to this House. What are the identity traits? The competence to participate in the construction and implementation of the European system. On this point I have to say that the general discussion has had very interesting suggestions; there have been suggestions that we have very much appreciated. So I think that the amendments that best define this role and this function of the Senate should be the subject of particular attention and reflection. I am referring in particular to my colleague who, with great irony, referred to the expression I used in the report when I said that in this sense the Italian Senate, if so reformed, would be a continental peculiarity. It would be a House which was born having in itself the function of participation in the process of creating and implementing the Community order, following the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, but with the freshness of a modern instrument, which is built on the basis of this new dimension of the national parliaments. Control functions: absolutely new in our system, to belong to an organ that we build as not tight by the trust bond, and therefore free in their own determinations. Therefore, monitoring functions on the enforcement of laws, public policies and public administrations. An equal legislative function, certainly enlarged with respect to the text of the Government and measured on the other part of this Senate, that of being a liaison body between the State and the Regions. Therefore, a physiognomy in many ways of absolute innovation and modernity, and in this sense - let me say - also of great importance from the point of view of the possibility to contribute to the modernization of the Italian institutional system and also - let me say - the role and the possibility to compete of our country. In addition, the function of participation in the guarantee functions: the election of the President of the Republic, the lay members of the MSC, the constitutional judges. Here - said Senator Bruno - we need to give an in-depth reflection in this House. On this point, precisely in order to avoid the suspicion of a twist of the Senate's participation, so as to make it absolutely irrelevant in the determination of the guarantee bodies, I think that both rapporteurs agree on the need for further reflection. But the main theme of the general discussion was the theme of electivity. In contrast to the Commission's choice - a choice adopted by a very large majority, as you will recall - many colleagues have taken on board, with great passion and with full legitimacy. In a debate in which, precisely because of its marked politicality to which I referred, the subject has been dealt with closely by linking it with electoral reform; but it does not exist, in the sense that it has been approved by a branch of Parliament, it has not yet been framed by the Senate Commission; it seems to me quite superfluous to say that the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have an extraordinary attention on this point, also for the events that concerned the previous electoral law. The main argument put forward by colleagues who opposed the Commission's decision to elect the Senate was that direct election of the Senate was indispensable in order to balance the effects of a majority electoral law. Some colleagues, particularly from the Democratic Party, recalled that in the 1996 thesis of the Olive tree, in force the Mattarellum, therefore in force a majority law, called for a second-degree electoral reform. But I am not quoting the episode to call, as it were, to order those who oppose it, but only to mean - and I shall explain it better later - that on that occasion no one shouted at the massacre of democracy, at the iniquitous, wicked and murderous maneuver, at the massacre of the Constitution, at the authoritarian risk, and I could continue, because among the various accents that have been heard in this House these have also been heard. I would like to remind you then that even more recently, in the 15th legislature, in force the electoral law n. 270 of 2005, therefore the so-called Porcellum, the so-called Violante draft arrived in the Chamber with a text in which the 180 senators elected in the electoral college were 144 regional councillors elected by their respective councils and 36 members of municipal, provincial and metropolitan councils elected by the Councils of Local Autonomies (CAL). At its meeting on 20 June 2007 on the text of the rapporteurs, which focused on this indirect composition of the Senate, I would like to recall the attitude of the political forces. The Communist Refoundation expressed its support for the election of second degree, but it also declared its willingness to consider direct election (i.e. the vote); Italy of the Values was pronounced in order to eliminate direct election altogether; the UDC pronounced itself so that the election was either direct or all indirect; Senator Bruno, representing Forza Italia, showed an overall dissatisfaction with the text, but did not dwell in particular on the question of electiveity. It is a fact that no one voted against that text and no one shouted at the authoritarian danger, the drift of the regime, the attack on democracy. Now, I have not remembered these passages in a spirit of controversy: I too believe that Part I of our Constitution is among the most beautiful in the world, but I would not want us to be enchanted. The ambiguous nature of the Senate, and therefore the overcoming of the Senate model that we know, discussed during the work of the Constitutional Assembly including also the possibility of an indirect election from the regional assemblies, is a theme that lies in the books of constitutional law. We remember Ruini's writings that, a few years after the Constitutional Assembly, spoke of the Senate as the Senate's Enigma, and I would like to read the exception that Professor President Valerio Onida made during the work of the Commission established by the Letta Government: In sharing the line that leads to the differentiation of the two Chambers for functions and composition, transforming the Senate into a representative Chamber of territorial autonomy, I believe that in order to achieve this objective in a full and coherent way we should adopt modalities of composition of the Senate so that those who are part of it are truly the expression of the institutions of autonomy. Therefore: 1) should be part of the Senate, by right, the presidents of the Regions and the presidents of the regional councils, and also (...) elected members of the regional council, better if among its members. In fact, direct election (...) would risk making senators more representatives of the political forces of belonging, with its dialectic, than representatives of the Region as an institution. This is what Valerio Onida says, not a dangerous enemy of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I wanted to remember this, I repeat, not in a polemical spirit, but because the words - especially if used with this vehemence and, let me say it, really exuberating the challenge of the moment - are in danger of being consumed. The words'regime', 'authoritarian drift', 'attack on democracy','massacre' of the Constitution, if pronounced in this House, are boulders. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Casini]] I believe that there is a need, and from this point of view I call on my fellow Members - although this House has the power to decide for the elective Senate of first or second degree - to reflect on the tones that we give to our debate, because we risk losing the way - let me use this expression - the cleanliness of the work to which we are called, the rigor, the nitor, the precision and punctuality with which we must draw the new constitutional order, and I say this once again. IN MAY (PI). With the removal of dissenting senators! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! FINDING, rapporteur. To you, Senator Di Maggio, I will reply shortly. I'd like to insist on one more matter, and then I'll be quiet here. This House is sovereign: we do not need to uncomfortable the tregend to bear witness to how much each of us here is authoritative representative of the people, capable of expressing a position. There is nothing to do: doubting this means doubting our own ability to change the country in order to make the institutions more effective and responsive to the role. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In any case, what we have to measure ourselves on is this text, that's all. I greatly appreciated some speeches, including that of Senator De Cristofaro, who framed this passage of history, historically placing - obviously according to his reconstruction - this reform too. For us, however, it is very useful to be able to work on this reform in a way - I do not want to use an expression that could be interpreted ambiguously - consistent, precise, precise, rigorous. It comes to mind that the constituent assembly was working in the afternoon, while in the morning the political forces faced incredible clashes dealing with ordinary legislation. Are we able to recover some of that spirit in our work on the reform of the Constitution, so that we can work on the text and on the reform - and we do not think so - without being overwhelmed by the political controversy of the day? I believe that this is the effort that we should all strive for. Many speeches by my fellow Members have focused on that part of the text which concerns the instruments of direct democracy. It is clear that it is always a matter of great delicacy, because in a system of representative democracy it is always necessary to work to ensure that the necessary and necessary strengthening of the instruments of direct democracy does not interfere with the principles of representative democracy that governs the system: I refer, in particular to the proposal, typical of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (which obviously make it an identity political trait), of the " quorum zero". It is therefore necessary to ensure that in a system built on the principles of representative democracy the principles and institutions of direct democracy are well calibrated. And I would like to focus on the issue of the referendum. It is true that the number of signatures has been raised to 800,000, but it is true that the quorum with which a referendum can be won today is what is determined by the number of voters who have participated in the last consultations; and it is also true that a scrutiny by the Constitutional Court has also been introduced in the middle of the collection of signatures (which, moreover, sees a double time) which, if exceeded, in the sense that the Court assesses the admissibility of the referendum, gives an extraordinary boost to credibility to that question. Faced with these considerations, which are certainly questionable but which take account of this need, probably still absolutely approximated by excess, and therefore unbalanced in the sense of a favor towards representative democracy, its principles and its system - it is possible to keep these two issues together every time in order to avoid, for example, that 26% of the voters overwhelm a text of law voted unanimously by the Chambers, and therefore affecting the principle of representativeness in a way I do not know how tolerable by the system. Senator Di Maggio spoke of the arrogant brazenness of the rapporteur in supporting the reform of the referendum brought about by the text approved by the Commission. I hope that I have convinced him that this is not a matter of brazenness, but of the laborious contemporaneousness of two principles, that of representative democracy and that of direct democracy, which for the first time the Parliament of the Republic finds itself in a more advanced way (not yet sufficient? I may agree), but it certainly is not the result of my arrogant brazenness. Senator Di Maggio, when he talks to his colleagues, always has more aggression, but we forgive him of course. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups]] ; indeed, let us observe it with a amusing amazement. One point, also highlighted in the introductory reports, on which many of my colleagues have spoken, is the question of the powers of the Senate in the field of budgetary laws. A very delicate profile, I must say, raised by colleagues from different groups. It is obvious, in fact, that if budgetary policy belongs exquisitely to the Government in office, it is also true that it is necessary to step up the possibility that the Senate, on the choices that concern in particular the territorial autonomy that are brought by the budget law, has the possibility to speak, precisely in order to integrate that model of connection between State and Region of which we have spoken. Therefore, I believe that we must return to these forecasts and I think that there is also an interesting amending contribution on this point. The other issue, which is the subject of great attention in the debate - and here I conclude - is the priority procedure provided for in the Constitution. As my fellow Members have said, this is a procedure that has been tried for so many times to be introduced into the regulations, but never succeeds. Very critical remarks have been heard. I would like to suggest a reflection on one point, knowing that we will then deal with it during the examination of the amendments. I am referring to the priority procedure, which is normally the alternative to the maximamenti and the vote of confidence, and it is the way in which, in any case, we vote article by article and we arrive at the final vote on a text which, in practice, has been translated, in these decades, into the presentation of maximamenti often illegible and not even approachable in reading, on which to put the vote of confidence. Finally, I welcome the remarks made by Mr Martini on Article 117 of the Constitution. A number of points have been made by my fellow Members. We believed that we had to innovate, even deeply, with respect to the text of the Government, collecting - because this seemed to us to have to do - not only the Italian constitutional tradition, but also the concrete reality of the dislocation of powers on the territory and vitality, especially because of a relationship between institutions and citizens very close, represented in Italy by the system of the Regions. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the work of examining the amendments will be very hard and will commit us particularly. How much I wanted to say I've said it before. I would like this further part of our work to be tackled with the strength that comes from believing in the institutions, in the role that each of us plays in this House, and with the clarity of thought, criticism and conflict, if necessary, which must, however, belong to a debate that discusses the text and the text, and nothing else. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u38	I call the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u39	Mr President, my reply will be a very small one, because there will be only four reflections. First of all, frankly, I do not believe in the replies, as I do not believe in the general discussions, in which each of us must be able to speak for twenty minutes, because we really talk about ourselves. It seems to me that we need to reflect on what we have done wrongfully in relation to Parliament's regulations. Sometimes, in fact, we have tried to amend the Regulations by putting the Constitution within them. This time we have constitutionalised the Regulations and failed to do so in Parliament and put them in the Constitution. It's a mea culpa I do. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]] On 11 February we presented a unified text, signed by the three rapporteurs, of a comprehensive reform of the Senate, after which the junta for the Rules of Procedure no longer touched on the subject and today we are obliged to include in the Constitution aspects that should not be included in it. [[Applause from the Misto-LC Group and Senator Morra]] All those predictions that we are making - at twenty days, at fifteen days or at a total of minutes - I would not want them to prove to be unworkable and inadmissible. If we had mistaken a regulation, by an absolute majority of a branch of Parliament we would change those times. We have introduced times, and I hope that those who have made the forecasts have not thrown down numbers, but have done precise calculations. If the machine does not turn, and this law has taken four steps in Parliament, and probably - as I hope not so much for the size of the vote it will receive - it will be put to a referendum, because such a reform must be submitted to the popular vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-LC Groups]] If we were to realise that those times were wrong, we would have completely paralysed Parliament, and because, in order to make a constitutional reform a year and a half is the minimum necessary, we would have the responsibility of stopping Parliament for a year and a half. Unless someone thinks of making a constitutional decree-law and transforming the thirty days into a thousandprorogues in sixty days; but I don't think that's right. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and the Divine Senator]] I do not say this out of a desire to make controversy; however, before we reach the final vote, we must really reflect on those times, asking especially officials and technicians if they are compatible with the parliamentary examination. The other reflection concerns the number of signatures needed for referendums. I am addressing everyone here and I must congratulate Senator De Petris and those who have worked with her for the drafting of the amendments, not only for the number and the size, but also for the quality, because it seems to me that about 60% alive and only 40% will not be voted on and is already a remarkable result. However, I see the risk that, along with the dirty water, the baby will also be thrown away. In other words, if there are some arguments and some qualified amendments within the 5,000 votes, I would not want them to end up with everything else. Therefore, the reflection that I submit to the oppositions (and I am speaking in terms of opposition, majority, I have no longer understood the role they are in) but also to the Government is if it is not necessary to make some reports regarding some qualifying points that, if faced, would lead to the withdrawal of everything else. In fact, I think it is everyone's interest not to take 5,000 votes against; let's do a few but good and well done. [[Senator Martelli makes a point of dissent.]] At this point I turn to the Minister. I have read the article that appeared in a newspaper and I hope that the person who interviewed her could not grasp her real will, because I read that the phase of the negotiation has ended and that therefore this phase would become useless has made me feel bad. I am convinced that a good part of the journey has been made in the Commission and that we still have a good part to do with it in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Campanella and Bignami]] In conclusion, Mr Martini, of whom I have shared so many of the contents of his speech, addressed the League because it has taken on too harsh a tone compared to the reform. The League has not said that it will preconceivedly vote against. There has been a job and there is still work to do, and I am sorry, because it seemed to me to relive the debate held in the Commission, to note so much interest in the elective ways of senators, but little or no interest in the world of self-governments, regions and balance systems; I have not seen this interest so strongly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Russian Senator]] I therefore believe that work on this point must still be fully developed, because we have brought back a train that really went on its own, since when we question a branch of Parliament and the territorial autonomy at stake there is democracy in the country, and when democracy fails we no longer make speeches of the kind: "Today I feel a bit like a zombie, a dead man walking". I wouldn't want to have to come back here and say: "Morituri te salutant," because this isn't about senators, it's about the Senate, and I hope it's the real Senate of self-government. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] I want the Senate to be not something for which some colleagues, perhaps ironically or perhaps even reflectively, have tabled amendments to delete it completely: I want a second Chamber to specialize in doing something else than the Chamber of Deputies, but it must have the same weight and the same balance as it has in the parliamentary system. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Bignami.]] If we go in this direction, do not worry, Senator Martini, that we are thinking people; we want signals, there are our amendments, there are many colleagues. I made only the first tome pass and I think I am the only one who has tried this; in the midst of so many issues, ten or fifteen points on which to reflect with Senator Finocchiaro I have found them, provided that the work begins even now after what we have done in the Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, FI-PdL XVII and PI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u40	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u41	Mr President, first of all, I would like to address Senator Calderoli and others who have feared the idea that the work of these days and, therefore, also the presentation of the amendments, have been merely an obstructionist manoeuvre, I repeat here what I have always supported in the work of the Commission, and as most of the speeches made in this House by so many political forces across the board have reiterated. There was indeed a chance of doing a serious job of constitutional revision and reasoning about overcoming the perfect bicameralism by focusing attention on a point that, even in 80% of the speeches in this House has been reiterated and on which I (like the many senators who have raised the issue) have not had answers, as President Finocchiaro knows. First of all, there is the question of constitutional revision and the overcoming of bicameralism which are, in the meantime, anchored in the principle of popular sovereignty and, therefore, of the reduction of parliamentarians, of direct election and of the system of balancing powers. These were the issues, which not only my group, but many senators have raised in this House and to which, to be honest, many of us - I repeat - have not had any kind of response. As well as the reasoning that emerged from several quarters here, which started with a consideration of the crisis of democracy and the relationship between citizens and institutions in which many of the senators at work in the Commission and in this House indicated a different path in relation to these aspects from the one that was then carried out by the majority: I am referring to the way of strengthening democracy and indeed, in our system, of a particular aspect of the forms of direct participation. Many of us are convinced that the crisis of democracy and the relationship between citizens and institutions, between citizens and representation can and must be answered with a surplus of democracy and a strengthening of the instruments of direct participation, i.e. the laws of popular initiative and referendum. On the other hand, the road taken here has been a different one (I will come back to this question later). On this point, I would like to make a small quotation: We must defeat the ideology of the end of politics and the prodigious virtues of a man only in command. It is a road that Italy has already travelled, and always with disastrous results. In democracy there are two ways of conceiving power: to use consensus to govern well or to use government to increase consensus. The first is the way of reformism. The second is the shortcut of all populisms and results in a paralysis of the decision. For us populism is the main opponent of an authentically popular policy. In recent years it has been fueled by a financial liberalism that has left the least well-off classes at the mercy of a market without rules. The only true response to populism is democratic participation. The crisis of democracy is not fought with less, but with more democracy. I mentioned the Charter of Intents for the primary 2012 of "Italia Bene Comune" and I address the coalition that supported this programme, because perhaps we should all feel committed to it. I say this because in these days I have heard several times of programs that were already written, of the non-elective Senate that was already here, of this reform on which we had presented ourselves, while it seems to me that the whole chapter of "Italy Bene Comune" goes in a completely different sense: what many senators, and not only those of the coalition that supported "Italy Bene Comune" have indicated. Again, I could make a further quotation of Renzi's programme on changing Italy, "Italy changes to the primary, and I could find passages that do not have much to do with the reform presented here. I say this because I have always felt that when you are elected on the basis of a programme, the first element with which you gain the confidence of citizens is being not only generically faithful to the program with which you were elected, but to apply it and carry it forward. But I get to the point that it was central. As many other senators have done during the debate in the Commission and repeated in this House, we have tabled alternative proposals: first of all those of the overall reduction of Members of Parliament and of a Senate with many functions of guarantee and control, which, precisely in order to have these functions, can only have a popular legitimacy, a direct election. On this point I still do not understand the obstinacy with which we have moved forward, with the result - I am sorry to say, but this is - in fact the political class elects the political class, or rather appoints the political class, with a twist and a profound modification of our democratic system. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]] On the substance, the way in which the election of the Senate is proposed, on which many senators have spoken, did not respond to a number of objections which I believe are absolutely valid. First of all, on the existence of a different type of legitimacy, uneven: each Region has its own electoral law. I want to stress the fact that you can get to the point that you can have an appointed senator that voters have never known who he is. We have electoral laws that in some regions provide for the President's list, which is not even hung out when you go to vote, but which is deposited together with the program. They are a number of regional councillors unknown to most, including the parties - this also happens - and certainly to the voters. The result would even be to have people, men and women - and then I will also talk about the issue of women - who come to the Senate as a political class that appoints the political class and therefore have not even had the element of recognizability on the part of the elector (and I make this example, but we may have others referring to other electoral laws). It is useless that we turn around: on this point - concerning the unevenness of the sources of legitimacy, absolutely different - no reply has been given, in my opinion, not to mention the issue of gender balance. I hope that the senators realize that not ten or twenty years ago, but in the last regional elections there were regional councils in which even not one woman was elected. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] Can you tell me how you can think of guaranteeing some kind of gender balance within this appointed Senate? In my view, it is not possible to have any kind, except in part, unless - and I have already realized this at the time of the European elections - the reference to gender equality is not used when it suits us, whereas, when we have to go to the point, it always becomes an absolutely secondary element. I would also like to address another issue here. In particular, I would like to address the Minister, who has perhaps not presented any relevant rules to date, but who is the first to start rethinking this issue. I am referring to the issue of incompatibility. Until now, we have made a number of rules on incompatibility: we have regulated everything and - rightly - we have done so in order to remove a number of problems present in our system, establishing by law that, as a rule, we can have only one task (I think of the incompatibility between the position of mayor and that of parliamentarians or between that of European parliamentarians and that of Italian parliamentarians). Now, however, with this mode of composition of the Senate, we are in fact re-introduced into the Constitution twice and triple in charge. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senator Nugnes.]] This is what we are producing, without, among other things, any clarification on this issue, either in the Commission or in this House. I would also like to point out that, for a long time, we have had MEPs who were also Italian parliamentarians and this has often been a not secondary cause of our lack of relevance within the European Parliament, because the cases of absenteeism of our MEPs were almost as a manual. Now, though, as if nothing had happened, let us reproduce this effect. With regard to the system of balance and balance, no one can escape an absolutely priority issue, which I wish to reiterate here, but which has been placed by so many senators: precisely for the type of electoral law applied to the Senate - political class that elects political class - and for the Italicum that has been approved, for which there will be lists a little shorter, not longer, but always blocked, the poison of the Porcellum, from this point of view, will continue, bringing great problems from the point of view of representation and of what the citizens, with a loud voice, have asked. Together with many others, I have collected the signatures for the repealing referendum of the Porcellum: the Constitutional Court, there for there, considered it inadmissible, but then came back to its unconstitutionality. In a few days, we have collected, along with many others, 1,100,000-1,200,000 signatures. This highlights the great popularity and also the great desire to participate of the citizens, who asked to be able to elect their representatives directly. Clearly, despite the crisis and mistrust, citizens want to participate and to be able to say their own. Italicum, however, is taking another sign. What is lacking is balance. I repeat that no one has responded to the fundamental objection made by many - because this reform must be read, as we said, as a whole - namely that with this system, which provides for 100 senators and 630 Members (the number of whom has not been modified), one gets the result that a party, even with only 25%, if it is coalized with other parties that do not exceed the threshold of 4.5%, can elect the President of the Republic alone, the judges of the Constitutional Court and indirectly, because the president is always elected by the majority party, in fact the majority of the Court, the Supreme Council of the judiciary. You claim that this is a balance system, but I, like many others, am dealing with data and facts: this system does not stand in balance and poses a very serious problem of balancing powers. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] The last issue concerns the preferential lane and the strengthening of the powers of the Commission. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr Finocchiaro, I am quoting you because you have raised this issue again. The preferential lane and the guillotine in the Constitution do not carry out any elimination. I mean that we could establish the elimination from the Constitution of the use of decree-laws. [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] But no, we add, because the instrument usually available to the government is already that of trust. In fact, the Commission calls for confidence from its majority on a matter it considers to be a priority. Then, we had use and abuse of the decree-laws. As the data published on the Senate's website also show, the approval time between the House and the Senate is very fast, since almost all measures are examined in two readings. Most of the parliamentary work, however, is carried out by the decree-laws: therefore, the exclusive competence of Parliament, i.e. the legislative power, has already been severely undermined. This is, therefore, an absolutely minor matter, in the sense that only a minimum percentage is made up of the bill of parliamentary initiative. On the other hand, we are putting another strong element in this House because I have heard some reasoning about a sort of opposition between parliamentary democracy and governability, so that, in the name of governance, the powers of Parliament and the popular legitimacy of Parliament must be simplified - I say strongly reduced. This line of reasoning (which some senators have drawn) often denounces the following situation: that in reality it is not our system that prevents the decisions and the effectiveness of the decisions of the Executive. Unfortunately, in these years of crisis, of the crisis that gripes the country, of a terrible crisis from which the latest data tell us that we are not coming out, we discount the ineffectiveness of the proposals, the inability of governments to affect, to find solutions, indications to get out of the crisis, proposals and tools to counter the social crisis and to respond to the problems of work. The problem is not that the parliamentary mechanisms prevent the free deployment of the Government's capabilities. It is in the inability of governments to give effective responses to the crisis. That's the point. [[Applause from the MovX Group.]] Hence torsions on governability, forcing on hyper-majoritarian electoral laws. The Parliament elected with the purest and purest proportional approach, which is why it is also possible to reach 0.5, 0.7 of the votes, is the Israeli one, namely the Knesset. It seems to me that anything can be said about that country unless there have been over-decideal governments. This shows that it is certainly not the hyper-majoritarian electoral system that produces the effectiveness of decisions. Only with the quality of the Government, with the quality of the proposals, governability is produced as an effect. Having said this, within this Senate, in the debate that took place was absolutely not advanced by any idea of discussing the overcoming of bicameralism, the idea of maintaining for the House the confidence and of assigning to the Senate functions of guarantee and control. A democratic system can only work if there is a strong capacity for direct public expression control. For this reason, many have asked that this type of Senate, guarantee and control, be elected by proportional law, to represent democratic pluralism and the effectiveness of control precisely because it is detached from the mechanism that provides for the expression of confidence in the Government. Not to force the tone, but we must have everything, Mr President. In their reflections many senators have drawn a very strong link between the political crisis and the economic crisis. I hope (but I'm sure no one in this Senate thinks so, I hope not even the government) will not act in the wake of the famous JP Morgan report of a year ago. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] which made a kind of appeal to the countries of the Eurozone asking to get rid of their Constitutions too conditioned by sinister and anti-fascist forces. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Nugnes.]] I'm sure it's not this government's intention to follow those directions. I hope that we will avoid populism and the idea that leadership may not be governed by parliamentary institutions and democracy. I am also sure that further reflection is needed on the strengthening of democracy as the response to the crisis because - as the programme of "Italy Good Common" said - (I see that undersecretary Delrio has also arrived) the crisis of democracy and representation responds with more democracy, not less democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] So, once again, I am putting this issue here not only to review the instruments of direct democracy. I would also remind you that democracy is first and foremost based on Article 1 of the Constitution, which reads: Sovereignty belongs to the people. Sovereignty belongs to the people. The legislative power is in Parliament as directly elected. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] These are the issues: we could have had a debate on this very path. A discussion that perhaps would have enthused us even more is what is being done in many non-European countries, unfortunately classified as the new constitutionalism. It concerns the inclusion in our Constitutions of rights and values set out when our Constitution was born. I am thinking of those who have constitutionalized the principle of motherland, of nature, not only as an object but an active subject. These are all experiences that are moving towards the constitutionalization of common goods. How many of us had dreamed of this could be the discussion about our Constitution. As that program, on which I but also many of you have been elected, says, is the most beautiful Constitution in the world and our work had to be to strengthen it and make it even more a strong instrument of recognition of the identity of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u42	I call the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a privilege for me to take part in the general debate these days. I say this in a personal way because it is definitely a difficult but fascinating journey what we are living together, and I say it on behalf of the Government. Moreover, from the outset, this Government has indissolublely linked its path to the path of constitutional reforms and reforms in particular. That is why the Government has promoted a constitutional bill which was then adopted in the Commission as a basic text. In these days there have been no lack of disputes, polemics and, in some cases, provocations. But it is the beauty of debate and democracy. I say this not as a phrase of circumstance, as a liturgy to the parliamentary debate imposes; I say this because I am convinced of it and this Government is convinced, which has always claimed to listen to the reasons of everyone, dialogue and confrontation. It has done so with the citizens; with the social partners, with the parliamentary groups and with individual opinionists. We have done this for the reform of public administration, for the third sector; we are doing it for the delicate reform of justice and we could not help but do it - at this point I can say without the issue of denial - that we have also done it for constitutional reforms, which represent the mother of all the institutional, political and civil battles that we are facing these days. We are submitting to this House a text, which is the result of the work of these months, improved over the course of these months thanks to the contribution made by citizens, professors, social partners and above all by the fruitful work carried out for more than three months in the Commission, for which my personal and government thanks go to President Anna Finocchiaro for the expert and effective hand with which he has conducted his work in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]] My thanks go to the senators and senators all, of all political parties, starting with the co-rapporteur Calderoli, from whom I am separated from sidereal distances in almost every political choice, but whose competence and also the great power of will I appreciated, because he continued to work with us despite poor health conditions in recent days. [[Applause from the PD, LN-Aut and SCpI groups and from the government benches]] And - let me do this for the work that has been done together so far - I would like to thank, in addition to my colleagues in the Ministry, the officials of the 1st Commission, not only for their undoubted competence, but also for the extreme availability they have shown in these months of work. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]] Today we are putting to the vote a text, which is the result of this work and not the dot representation that some speeches have wanted to make of it. We would like to discuss the substance of this constitutional bill, not a debate on the sympathy or dislike of those who proposed it, because we know that if we discuss the substance of these proposals, we are not afraid of the ideas of others. Pratolini, a singer of my land, said that he is not afraid of ideas who has them. So we are not afraid of confrontation, if it remains on the subject, and we know that the text that came out of the Commission is widely shared. And the fact that, unlike 2001 and 2005, to support it is a majority that goes beyond the majority that supports the Government is an added value, so we must appreciate the seriousness and the unpredicted commitment with which not only all parties that support the Government, but also Forza Italia has supported this path of reforms from the beginning. We know that we are presenting a text that, purified by the ideological clash, is shared in its general system because, if we look at the debate these days, the central point that has engaged us was that of electiveity or not of the 74 regional councillors and of the 21 mayors to senators: an important debate, which I do not want to debase, which has had different and varied responses in Europe and which also divides part of science and doctrine, but which is a single aspect in a profound and radical reform system, instead widely shared for the rest. We have tried, with this reform, to remedy the distortions that our Constitution has shown over the years: a slow and cumbersome legislative procedure, which has also led to excessive recourse, especially by the last Governments, to the decree of urgency; a relationship of trust between both Chambers and the Government, an anomaly also at European level; the need to review the division of competences between State and Regions, after thirteen years of the reform approved. This constitutional reform holds together two important elements: the overcoming of perfect bicameralism and the reform of Title V: two elements that are held together and it is not by chance that only one constitutional bill has been proposed. We believe that we can also overcome the conflict between the State and the Regions that has led to a considerable dispute before the Constitutional Court, reviewing the issues perhaps too hastily attributed to the Regions (so-called concurrent matter): but, to do this, the Regions and local self-governments must participate in the decision-making phase from the beginning. We cannot think of solving the problem only downstream by judicial means; the problem must be anticipated with a political compensation chamber and this will be the new Senate. For this reason we have thought of a Senate that is not directly elected by the citizens, but represents the Regions and the Municipalities so that the territorial autonomy can have their voice and decide together with the central State: therefore a new innovative way of understanding the relationship between the central State and the peripheral powers; a new Senate that will play an important role in connecting, belting, closing between the State and subnational authorities, but that will also play an important role in connecting with the European Union not only in the ascending phase, but also in evaluating the implementation of European policies in our country. And it is a Senate that, free and free from the relationship of trust with the Government, will also be able to play a new and fundamental role in evaluating the implementation of state laws and assessing the impact of public policies and public administrations. With this reform we have also put our hands on the government's regulatory powers, trying to regulate in a more precise way also the decree of urgency, transposing into the Constitution not only constraints that are already present in ordinary legislation or the sentences and jurisprudence now established by the Constitutional Court. To transpose them into the Constitution means to give greater forceful value and greater effectiveness to these limits. We have also provided for a preferential lane for the government's draft law, with the possibility of putting them to the vote on a certain date, but always in the Parliamentary Assembly beehive, never outside of it. Certainly the work in the Commission has helped to make the text balanced also from the point of view of guarantees, through the strengthening of quorums for the election of the President of the Republic, the number of ballots for the election of the President of the Republic and introducing an important innovation also with regard to the repealing referendums: to provide a quorum for the validity of referendums not anchored to the number of voters but to the participants in the last political elections means to completely reverse the mechanism of political participation in the referendums; it represents an additional commitment and effort also for political parties in their referendary battles or for movements that want to submit referendums. This text leads to the completion of the reform, already begun with the Delrio law for the articulation of the Republic, to reorganize the presence of the State in the territory with the abolition of the Provinces also in the Constitution and the abolition of the CNEL after years that we discuss it. We are well aware - it has also been recalled in this House - that the work of the Constituent has also led to political clashes, to heated debates; we have arrived at mediations that have perhaps not been the perfect solution, but that have represented the best compromise possible in the interest of the country and the citizens, intertwining also the experience of the more mature members of that Constituent with the look on the future of the younger members called to be part of it. Even today we are called to find a high agreement in the interests of the country and citizens, also because these constitutional reforms are the premise, the basis for the other reforms that we are facing: from that of public administration to the tax reform that Parliament has attributed to Minister Padoan, to the reform of justice. We need a simpler, more courageous state, a stronger Italy. This reform is trying to answer all these questions. There has also been a great deal of discussion about the urgency of this reform, an undeniable urgency, which certainly stems from the need to show in Europe that structural reforms have not only begun but are moving forward, because they are the only condition of flexibility that we can have in Europe, but it is an urgency that arises above all from the need to respond to the questions of our citizens, to keep our commitments; it is an urgency that stems from the need to respond to a desire, a scream of change that citizens have also addressed to us in the European elections, in which for the first time since 1958 a party has achieved such a broad result, precisely because in our country there is a desire for change. There may then be an attempt to slow down this change, the obstructionism that will lead us to work a week more and perhaps to sacrifice some vacation, but we will keep the commitment to change the country because we promised it to our citizens. This urgency comes first and foremost from us. I will take you a minute for a consideration that is not of the Government, but more personal, than a Member who is in the first legislature. We were together in common sitting a year ago when the President of the Republic was re-elected with a very large majority. On 22 April the President of the Republic, in a very strict manner, called all politicians to their responsibilities, including their inability to complete the process of constitutional reforms that we had all promised the Italians and the citizens. In addition to the admiration and esteem for the Head of State, who even with a personal sacrifice and a sense of service towards the Republic and the institutions, accepted that new mandate, I was also wondering if we would be able to follow that broad sharing that we had in Parliament that day on the need and urgency of reforms, if we would all come out of those quicksand together. From there began a journey that led to the Commission of the 35 experts. I also thank my predecessor, Gaetano Quagliariello, for the patient work he has been able to do with the Commission, which has been part of the path already outlined by the experts appointed some time before by the President of the Republic. The work of the experts has given us points of broad sharing. Everything, we know, can be improved, always; but we also know that on the fundamental system that this reform presents - from overcoming the perfect bicameralism to a relationship of trust with the Government of a single Chamber, to the need to review the competences of the State, giving it again competence, for example, in the fields of energy, large infrastructure works and transport networks - there is a broad consensus also in the academic world. On other solutions the choice has remained open, even in the work of the sages and it is up to us politicians to decide what is best for our country today: this is the responsibility to which we are called. The reform we have presented is not, however, a random approximation: it is based on robust and solid shoulders, on the deepening and discussion of constitutionalists who have been in the political and scientific world over the last 30 years and who have remained in a drawer. I have heard some - in this House and out of here - speak of an authoritarian turnout for this reform. This is a hallucination and like all hallucinations cannot be denied by the force of reason, because it remains so. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] There is nothing authoritarian about overcoming the perfect bicameralism, just as there is nothing authoritarian about the reform of Title V, or the abolition of CNEL. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u44	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not disturb the Minister's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u45	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. A great statesman, who was also a great President of this House - as well as a reference for so many women and men in my land, including my father - Amintore Fanfani, said a small great truth: lies in politics do not serve. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]] You may or may not agree with this constitutional reform, you may vote it or not, you may or may not share the government's activity, but talking about the liberal turning point in the country for the presentation of this reform is a lie, and the lies in politics do not serve. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini. Live comments from the M5S Group.]] This government... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u46	Please do not interrupt the Minister's intervention. Comments are absolutely not relevant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u47	Please, Madam Minister. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Thank you, President. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u48	Quiet! Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. This government presented structural reforms to the country and will present on September 1st the program of the thousand days, the commitment, the mandate for the next three years of legislature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u49	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] At the natural electoral deadline the parties will organize themselves for voting, as has always been the case. Today, however, we are called to give a new hope to the country. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Exactly! Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. We are called to make institutions live, present, in harmony with the country, if we do not want them to become a symbol of the past, rather than bright indicators of the future. This is the challenge to which we are called. We've been slapping the opportunity to change us to change the country for 30 years. We've been wasting the opportunity to bet on the future for 30 years. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] It's been 30 years as the poet would say that we are waiting tomorrow to have nostalgia. We think that today is the time of choice, the time to decide. In your hands, ladies and gentlemen, there is not only this fundamental reform of the Constitution, but perhaps the last chance of credibility for politics as a whole, and I am sure that none of us will want to waste it. [[Applause from the PD, PI and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Some PD Senators stand up. Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Yes, stand up!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u52	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, before the examination of the articles begins, I would like to say to my colleagues and to the majority and minority rapporteurs who have done their work: who has done it in a serious way, who has done it in a consistent way and who has done it, perhaps - the future will probably say so - their dirty work. The President-in-Office of the Council yesterday... Senator Petrocelli, I would like to understand the theme of your speech; I gave you the floor as a Parent. PETROCELLI (M5S). The subject of my speech is the request not to go into the articles, but it must make me fully articulate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Arguments, Senator Petrocelli. PETROCELLI (M5S). The President-in-Office of the Council made a metaphor for his thinking, saying that on this path of reform the Government intends to proceed with a smile on its lips but with a firm determination it is determined to move forward. He has punctually defined what will happen in the next few days in the Chamber as a obstructive attempt and said that, if someone with obstructionism wants to put a stone on the tracks, the Government will patiently remove it and move on. On behalf of my Group, with an even more dazzling smile on the lips, I repeat to the dear President-in-Office of the Council and Minister Boschi, (of whom I did not appreciate the intervention contrary to the speech of the majority and minority rapporteurs) that we will continue to put on the track, in these and in the next steps in Parliament, a stone, two stones, three stones, 100,000 stones... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The reform train to which the President of the Council refers brings, in reality, unacceptable timetables and delays, in a country in which the trains of Trenitalia travel with inadmissible delays: on this we would like to confront ourselves and not on the train of reforms. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I would like to argue with Mr Boschi about this without the issue of denial. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] The path that has developed mainly in the Commission has seen several fears of denial. Even the so-called "spotting representation" of those responsible for opposition has ventilated "authoritarian threats" seems to be an expression frankly not consonant to a Minister of the Republic, which frankly I would not have expected at all. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Finally, if what we are really experiencing - as Minister Boschi said - is a collective hallucination, I prefer to live it personally in my own way. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] , with what we're going to see in this House and not with the hallucinations that the government wants us to pass. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] These are the reasons why I ask, on the basis of the speeches made by the majority and especially by Vice-President Calderoli, not to move to the articles and to refer the measure back to the Commission for further serious consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u55	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to support the request that has just been made and to support, also by the Mixed Left Group, the need for the return of the measure to the Commission and the failure to move to the articles. We ask this for reasons that have been explained in the course of this morning and for the necessity, which we feel a lot, that issues such as the one under consideration of great commitment and reflection have an element of greater deepening. I insist on this: I really say this to my colleagues in the strongest way I can. We are not discussing an electoral law, a possible matter to be changed, and even several times, during the same parliamentary term. For the past 15 years, we've had at least four electoral laws. We are discussing constitutional reform, which will change the constitutional architecture of the country probably for the coming decades, and not simply for the coming years. If the opposition calls for more in-depth discussion and greater articulation of the discussion, this cannot be denied as the will to slow down change. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I believe that the view that those who oppose this reform, those who regard it as wrong, those who make doubts and perplexities, simply want to block the road to reform is propaganda. It is a thesis that can be useful for a headline in the newspapers, but it is not useful for the country. Also on the history of the stones recalled this morning, allow me, ladies and gentlemen present, to remind you that when during these years, often in isolation - and in some cases, at the time of the amendment of Article 81 and the balance of the budget in the Constitution, even outside the Chambers at that historical stage - we asked Parliament to be more cautious than some great choices that would have affected the political life of the country, we were not sufficiently listened to. Nor were we heard when we said we had great attention to discuss at the time of a story such as Title V, warning the country that an important reform such as that could not be done simply on the basis of emotion; and even more so when outside Parliament, a few years ago, we placed the issue of the dramatic political error of changing Article 81 of the Constitution, including the balance of the budget in the Constitution. I remember that even at the time these words were considered rocks, but the real stones, indeed the real boulders, are represented precisely by the choices made during these years. I really would not want to remove the stones, but the boulders, and have the possibility that even within our country we can seriously discuss this matter. The debate is not about whether the Italian institutions should be reformed. To say, as has been said, that those who oppose this reform oppose the change of institutions is false. We all agree that the institutions should be reformed; on the contrary, I would add that we come from a history and a political tradition that these things, if you will allow me, told them many years ago. I remember that very well, for example, when the Center for State Reform 20 years ago spoke of the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism. And if 20 years ago the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism had been done following that kind of indication, probably it would not have happened what happened over the years: perhaps it would not have resulted in such a profound crisis of the intermediate bodies and the mass parties, we would not have had what exactly happened, that is, a democracy that has put more and more at the center of attention the theme of governability, an obviously important, important theme, but sacrificing the theme of representation. I challenge - if I may say so - Minister Boschi to find a single staff of my own statement or the national president of my party in which we are talking about the massacre of the Constitution, the massacre of democracy or the authoritarian turning point. I personally have not spoken these words and I will not say them now either because I believe them to be wrong, of propaganda. But the question I put to this House is another: if there is a deep crisis in our country's democracy, if there is a deficit that has never been seen before of political tension between representatives and representatives, if there is a vulnus that has caused citizenship to get further away from the public sphere, which has increased the distance between citizens and institutions, does this reform help us to overcome this deficit of representation, to bring citizens closer to the institutions, or does it exacerbate this element of crisis of democracy? You have to answer to that. This is the basic point with which we have to measure ourselves over the years to come, and we hope, of course, that, since the debate on the amendments, amendments can be adopted which could call this plant into question. In fact, it is not simply the issue of constitutional reform that is being proposed that we disagree. It's the package, it's the arranged combination. But how can you not understand? How can we take as a reference, for example, some other European country that uses the indirect election mechanism of a House, but that in the other branch of Parliament uses the proportional system without barriers or, in any case, without the majority prizes that are provided for by our system? We will see here a combined arrangement that brings together, in the House, a very majority law with very high barricades and prizes of majority; in the Senate, a mechanism of indirect election of senators and, moreover, a difficulty that concerns the instruments of direct democracy. It is the combination of these measures that does not convince us and that we think is a serious political mistake. I shall conclude with a request, which I also address to the Government. I believe that in any case, however, this matter will end, this whole package of reforms must be subjected to the sovereignty of the Italian people, regardless of whether or not it is approved by two thirds of the members of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] I say this because when the constituent Fathers imagined the two-thirds assumed proportional law, dear Minister, and at the time the two-thirds of Parliament were obviously exactly representative of the two-thirds of the country. It's not like that anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because obviously, with the introduction of the majority prizes, and also with this radical breakdown between the institutions and citizens, the two-thirds of Parliament are no longer representative of the two-thirds of the country. So let us at least do this: at least put this matter and this debate at the disposal of the people's sovereignty, let us have a referendum. The referendum and the people are always sovereign, and I believe that at least this would not be a concession of any kind from the parliamentary majority, but simply a more fundamental idea to demonstrate what the Minister tells us, namely that it is not an authoritarian turning point, but simply different opinions. If that is the case, and I can agree with that, that this debate can, however, profoundly cross the entire country, and not simply the Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u58	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on a subject that I often hear used; the speech about the approval by two thirds of the members of Parliament and whether or not to submit the reform package to a referendum is not something that we can introduce in this reform and apply to it. A revision of Article 138 of the Constitution should be made with the four parliamentary passages and then this provision applies to this reform, but if we insert it into the draft law under consideration it cannot be applied to the reform under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u59	All right, Senator, but let's not get into this. Since many senators intend to intervene, given the time, I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would also like to take advantage of the presence of Mr Giannini in this House, because I would like to talk about an issue that concerns education. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Minister Giannini, listen to me... I have to assume it's hard on your ear! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. It depends on the buzz of your colleagues. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mrs. Giannini, you were called into question by a union that had nothing to do with the story of the famous lesbian teacher who, with a lot of falsehood, was declared to have been fired. What this is about is a confessional school run by religious, the Sacred Heart Institute of Trento, and there is no dismissal, but only an expired and not renewed contract. It is a Catholic school, therefore a parified institute, which we believe must be able to choose its teachers also according to the principles to which it is inspired. A teacher in open contrast to the values of the school's educational project is defined by himself. What we are interested in is knowing that parents, who pay for these schools, want exactly that kind of training and that everything conforms to that scale of values. The first value taught in those schools is that of the family: a man and a woman who become father and mother when they give birth to children. If that teacher had been a normal mother, married regularly, there would have been no problem. And that makes us think that some kind of reverse discrimination is taking place. They would have told that lady, simply, that her contract had expired. Since you, Madam Minister, continue to be brought into play - even for the jacket - on the matter, we honestly say to you: you don't need to come to Trento, you don't need to compromise your life at the confessional schools, you continue to do your fine work that the thirty story has only been art-built. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u65	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I presented the 2 00057 question, which was published on 30 July 2013 at sitting No 83. It called for urgent response, since it was also abbreviated, on the installation of the Snam pipeline and its procedure. The Conference of Services was convened for 7 August in Rome to authorize the construction of the SNAM compression plant in Sulmona, without having given any answer to the questioning I presented. This summer gift also takes away respect for the public meeting that took place a year ago, in Sulmona, with the participation of the undersecretary Legnini, who had given ample assurance that there would be no forced force on the part of the national government. Moreover, it expected and expected the establishment of a table with all stakeholders to address the problem of alternative solutions. In this way, we are erasing all procedural correctness rules, and Parliament's decisions on this matter are being made a waste of time. I believe that this behaviour, which already knows of a dictatorship, cannot be pursued. A year has passed and the table has not even seen the shadow, and now comes, close to Ferragosto, a mocking convocation of the Conference of Services, which would put under the feet both the protest of the citizens and the decisions taken by the territory, municipalities and region included. I ask for an urgent answer, as I have already done in the Commission, since I have turned this question into an oral question in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-284.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.35 a.m.
