ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate began. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u9	Mr President, yesterday Mr Boschi was present in this House - and I am truly sorry that he is absent today - who followed the work of Parliament in the Commission and sometimes in this House, and I asked myself a question. In this very distracted Chamber I would like to recall one person, who is no longer there today and it is a pity that he is missing, a person who has worked on the project that we are discussing today essentially for thirty years of his life: I am referring to Gianfranco Miglio, who was also our colleague, as well as a distinguished professor and professor of constitutional law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I was wondering if Minister Boschi had ever heard of this person, because when Miglio was in the political battles in this House, having failed in 2001, I can understand that Minister Boschi probably, still a teenager, then had other problems in his life. Constitutional reforms are an issue that has always, from time to time, touched Parliament when it realized that maintenance work had to be carried out. Those who have parliamentary memory recall that since the mid-1980s the problem of modernising the Constitution has been a major one. These are the years in which Sieyès' theories, a French constitutionalist, are discussed, according to which every constitutional system undergoes an inevitable wear and tear, so that a Constitution remains valid for no more than two generations. On the basis of these evaluations, Italy started a series of review periods: the first two-cameral Commission, Bozzi, in the years 1983-1985 and the second, with De Mita-Iotti, in the years 1993-1994. But it takes a big, innovative push to give birth to a first project. The innovative push gives it a new political force that enters the Italian political scene and is the North League in the early 1990s. The League strongly stresses the need to review the structure, structure and efficiency of the state, to the point that constitutional reforms are the basis of a restart and reorganization of the constitutional architecture. Ironically, the first reform is not done by the League, but by the Commission, always bicameral, chaired by D'Alema, which gives birth in 2001 to the first reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. The Government (Lega-Forza Italia, with Berlusconi) completes a project left partially unfinished and kicks off in 2005 the real reform, also defined as devolution, because it was made as an unchanged constitution, which was - if I may - even better than what we are going through. In fact, it touched the two branches of Parliament and also made a substantial reduction in the House. But he had a flaw, that is, that it was the result of a certain coalition, he had the stamp of a government of center-right: at the time, what a government of center-right could not be endorsed by the center-left so that the governments happened in those years everything that a government did the next government canceled it. It was the school, the education that, in the course of four legislatures, saw four reforms so much that the Italian school ended up in chaos. The reform we are talking about today is a reform that starts very badly. If in the past we were thinking in terms of bicameral commissions, of involvement, of wide participation in the reformative phase, this reform instead starts in the rooms of a series of parties, so much so that it is also known as the pact of the Nazarene. So, reforms that start with two, but the reforms that start with only two formations start very, very badly. How does the North League fit in right now? It is inserted by the force of the numbers available to Parliament, but on a text that is already almost prepacked, so it is inserted in the middle of the game. What can you do? It can only bring some improvement, and we are relatively satisfied with that. I have heard great inaccuracies in this House. In other words, it was said that the Commissions would make adjustments. Well, the Commissions have collected 53 texts of constitutional drafts, one of which also bore my signature (the eighth among the presented) and was very partial. And it was because, as in the peasant wars of the fifteenth century, right or wrong, my country, the flags of the counties were different but under the phrase was the same: right or wrong, fighting for my land. I too had to lead my battle for my land by inserting, against the possible arrogance of a centralist government, the defense of the autonomy. And special autonomy can only be protected by providing that the relevant statutes, which are constitutional laws, can be modified only after an agreement between the State and the self-government concerned. This has remained in the text, but not because the Commission envisaged it, but because it was part of the 53 texts contained in the proposal which the Commission has brought before this House. We have a big concern about the vocabulary you're using. This legislature starts with a bad term, if you remember correctly, colleagues: scrap. You have to change, you have to change and no matter what. The new is always good, the old man isn't. Almost as if we were talking about a clothing store, the garments of the previous year, beyond their goodness, must be replaced because fashion dictates that you have to change in order to change. We call ourselves senators. Once the senior, the wise, the wise, the experience was considered virtue, today - who knows why - is considered a capital vice to be swept away in the shortest possible time. The term "machismo" used to be very similar to "fascismo" in the past. Now we use the term "renzismo" which is perhaps even worse than "machismo". I am referring to the display of strength and security: let us reform each month; let us reform the day; let us give the deadline; let us do these things within this period; let us do those who do not share and the voices outside the choir are swept away (we have seen what happened to those who did not share in the Commission). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Gentlemen, it is a great concern for us that the path is taking. But, with these methods, what product will we eventually be able to produce and, above all, to whom will we give it in the hand to direct or manage? We can say that some improvements we have attempted and introduced. The government has decided to cancel the Provinces: we do not think it is a good thing, but, by majority, it has decided so. The government wanted in fact to cancel the Regions: take away the Provinces, take away the competences of the Regions, but what remains of real power to the territories? Excuse me, but today I wanted to pay a tribute to Miglio. What he said about centralism focused in a few lines in his book: "A Constitution for the next thirty years": "While in a unitary and centralised state one tends to command - this term brings us to the present - "with acts of empire, measures and decisions taken from above, in a federal system at all levels one tends to use that system of the contract, always seeking the consent of the populations involved." Since we are a little 'the disciples and epigons of Miglio, we have applied substantially to the letter the teachings of Miglio and we have dropped into the text what we could lower. So, thanks also to the co-rapporteur Calderoli, who is part of this current of thought, the Regions have maintained themselves: I am referring to the legislative powers of the Regions, which means powers to the territories, therefore very close to the citizens. This has been maintained in respect of obtaining also the result, which is that of a more slender Senate. A hundred senators can do well. However, if 100 senators (i.e. a two-thirds slimming) can do well, why couldn't a parallel slimming of the House at 400 or 500 go well? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are things which have not been accepted, but which we would have liked to see in the overall reform. Let us now turn to the question of the powers of control by this House, which - let us return to Miglio - will return to what was called the Chamber of Autonomouss in the thought of Miglio, that is, the Senate of the Regions, which operates in relations between Parliament and local authorities and between Parliament and Community bodies. Let's say lean - yes, fine - but we can never forget efficiency. The efficiency that, who remembers well, in our 2005 federalist reform, set itself the standard costs. We have seen with satisfaction that this concept has also been translated into the reform we are talking about. This is not the time when everything was canceled if it was done by someone else, but recognizing fatherhood is a bit annoying. Here, therefore, the word standard costs disappears strangely and a different term is used. Indeed, in Article 32 of the text proposed by the Commission, which amends Article 119 of the Constitution, instead of saying that efficient methods must be used with standard costs, the term "cost and need indicators" has been used. Well, if we look at the substance, we are happy that this has entered the Constitution. We have calculated that only with this small maneuver will we have savings of around EUR 30 billion per year. We know what 30 billion a year means and we also know what we can put into motion of this economy that, despite the government's proclamations, seems to us, not on the stake, but really planted up to half a bust. Let's say, a little better than before. This reform today is a little better than how it started and how the government presented it to us. However, there are still issues that cannot be digested, because they really do not like very much. I am referring to the fact that citizens have absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] Let's see some. It is already difficult to participate; we know how difficult it is for a committee to make its own contribution with a law of popular initiative: 50,000 signatures were a fine effort; to foresee now 250,000 seems to cut off its legs, that is to say that the popular initiative is there, it is possible, but the road is very steep and uphill. The same is true of the referendum: if a citizen thinks that a wrong rule has been adopted, he can only shout; he has no newspapers, he has no means of pressure; the only major means that the Constitution gives him is to be able to ask, together with someone else, for that rule to be deleted. Well, 500,000 signatures are an incredible number: it has been seen that the half of the referendums did not even overcome this rock, although they are all motivated, reasoned, all with an intrinsic validity. Bringing it to a million signatures means preventing referendums in the near future. It is true that the number has been mitigated by the Commission, which has reduced it to 800,000, but it seems to us that we are taking the path that a citizen must not interfere, it does not matter anything, he must only listen, obey and drink from this fountain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Liuzzi.]] 9:50 a.m. (Follow DIVINE). We come up with some elements that we are not allowed to marry right now. We are talking about Senate reform, but we cannot fail to see that the House is being modified in the method of election. I am referring to Italicum, which, by chance, is also born in the secret rooms of a political formation: always a pact with two, the Nazarene pact, by which it is established that the House will never be elected by the citizens, but will be named essentially on the basis of blocked lists. I remember that the great discomfort of the citizens, the first regurgitations that led to the detachment of civil society from Parliament, therefore from politics, arise precisely from the fact that the population, the citizen, has been less and less involved; the stomachaches have felt. When the scrapers left, it even seemed that among the first points there was the need to resume a dialogue with citizenship. But if what the scrapers said in the end this is the result, we must say that, thanks to Renzi, the line of wanting to control the institutions even more closely prevailed. We have all read the agencies and some newspaper headlines: in this House there have been 360-degree objections to the issue of participation and election, and it is not acceptable for the President-in-Office of the Council to liquidate everything with the joke that it is only a question that the senators want to maintain the allowance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Floris]] No one ever said anything like that in here. The President's party itself has raised choirs and expectations, but no one here has mentioned the word compensation, which is why it is shameful that President Renzi has cleared the matter with a joke, as if to say that what interests senators is only to keep the place, the "carega" or the allowances. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups and the Senators De Pietro and Floris]] Renzi is a shame if he deals with reforms in this way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Floris]] An unelected Senate, a House not elected: but what are we going to tell our citizens, since I don't think even the Italians are doing so well? We have read the latest data from ISTAT: 6 million in total indigenous situations; 10 million below the poverty line. We've never seen such data before. What do President Renzi and the institutions respond to these citizens? The questions they would like to hear about are: "When this ordeal ends, when you deal with our problems, with our needs." Because of the architecture of the constitutional state these people care relatively little: these are not the problems that take away the sleep of the Italians. The questions they ask themselves are: Will I be able to maintain my job? Will my son be able to get a job tomorrow? Will I be able to pay the bills and rent this month? These are the problems that Italians pose, of the architecture of the State they care very little.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u10	Divine Senator, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u11	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm finishing. If the children do not find work they do not marry and, if they do not marry, they do not have children, and if we do not have children the populism of those who insist to say: you see, it is the immigrants who guarantee the least vital rejuvenation of society. It may be true, but it is we who are preparing this society: I am ashamed to leave this kind of country to those who will come tomorrow. The message the government is giving to these people who are waiting for answers to their problems is: Dear gentlemen, you are of no use to us, not even to choose who will rule you. This is the message you give. President, as the North League, we will never say that to our citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u13	Madam President, we are here to celebrate the funeral of the Senate of the Italian Republic. It is a blow to the heart of democratic institutions, born from an evil pact between the President of the Council Matteo Renzi and the well-known convicted Berlusconi. That our country and our institutions had the need for a bureaucratic simplification and a legislative activity more incisive and less slowed down by bureaucratic tricks we also noticed. We entered the Senate, 15 months ago, with the sole task that the citizens have given us, that is to make Parliament return to its natural function: to make laws. Through legislative proposals, amendments, motions, resolutions, questions, we continue with constancy and commitment, with a great sense of institutional responsibility, but we realized that the problem is not the Senate and neither are we. The problem is in your low regard for this branch of Parliament, which is now reduced to the remaining task of giving confidence to your every legislative bega. What drives us every day to fight in the various Commissions, although our amendments are repeatedly rejected and reduced by you to waste paper, is precisely the awareness of returning to politics, a policy that looks at the citizen as the central hub of all choices. A shared and shared policy. Today, this parliamentary mandate clashes with the worst massacre of our Constitutional Charter: the cancellation of the legislative function of the Senate of the Republic. The pact of the Nazarene - which has very little of celestial - has decided that in order to make the project of authoritarian drift of the P2 work one should put hand at the end of the perfect bicameralism, that is to silence the oppositions and to establish a House of notables within the pleasure and servility of the leaders of party. The Senate, always according to your bizarre constitutional logic, will be depowered of all its functions. You are succeeding where those who preceded you dared not go further, in spite of the true common interest. One hundred are the "named ", the condominiums between regional councillors and mayors to which are added the nominations of King George. These will be the next tenants of Palazzo Madama. One hundred men and women appointed by a restricted circle in the Regional Councils who, in addition to the position of adviser, will also play the senator of the Republic of the Autonomous Communities. The future tenants, therefore, will benefit from a bonus wild card that translates into a gift of the unique party: immunity. They'll be some lucky thugs who, by the majority of government, will be pardoned for their marachelles. It is not difficult to imagine the names and surnames of these future Lord's anointed ones. Just look in the long list of mayors and regional councillors in the smell of warranty notice to understand who will be chosen for the scranno at Palazzo Madama. But this isn't over. The Senate will become an autopark, a sort of political parking space in time, with scratches in the hand and expiration of the mandate until the fall of the Junta. Your reform - strengthened by another great find of yours - the Italicum, will be the final well served to the role of oppositions. The smaller parties that will try to protect popular sovereignty will be silenced once and for all, any adversary who will bring blood to your eyes will be eliminated. Historical courses and resorts, huh? You copied and changed some of the Acerbo law data. A law that, under democratic disguises, intended to pave the way for the fascist twenty years. Nothing more and nothing less than what you want to implement with Italicum, that is to open the doors to the Renzusconi regime. That's good. But we have discovered you! At this point, Giacomo Matteotti would say: The enemy is currently only one, Fascism. Involuntary accomplice of fascism is communism. Violence and dictatorship preached by one becomes the pretext and justification for the violence and dictatorship of the other. In other words, your dissidents will be forced to follow orders from above with the risk of being put out of the game and replaced in the Commission. As in the case of the cleansing of two of your senators, with whom you have done the general tests of elimination of the competitor, in perfect style . "Big Brother". Did you also envisage a confessional in this Chamber? Eliminations without nomination and no vote of the public. The idea of man alone in command makes us feel that we have arrived, more blinded by the ego disproportionate than by institutional roles, in a country increasingly taillight in Europe. You have been terrible as an opposition to the former Knight and you are worse than him as a majority claiming the right to decide for everyone, as if none of you had ever put your noses out of this House and realized that millions of Italians are on their knees. The Head of State - or, better, his choice - will only be a formality within the Government and the first party that, with a few votes, will bring home all the offices of the constitutional arch. We have not understood, however, whether those who sit at the Quirinale will be guarantor of the Constitution or giver of thanks to men who are not inclined to the legitimate institutional duty! Do you already have a name for the next guarantor or are you working on a rose of names willing to give grace to your faithful ally, former Senator Berlusconi? What about the Constitutional Court? Will it also be a body in the hands of the Government and the Colle? The government, after all, will monitor 10 of the 15 constitutional judges. It will reduce the risk of rejection by the Council of Unconstitutional Laws that you, always you of the single party, have been used to doing and doing again for 20 years. You have also put your hat on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, destined to become a pro-government body with a third of lay people appointed by the government, with the addition of a President and a Deputy, both loyal to the Executive. A perfect picture, made up of lead soldiers, that silences that judicial power that too often, according to someone, has interfered in your atypical and collusive political activities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And that's why you set the rumps in motion to get them out of the way, starting to deny him adequate protection, leaving them alone to fight against the mafia, preventing him even from continuing his investigation. This is not the state to be proud of. It's not that. Where does President Renzi want to go, what is his real final goal? These are undemocratic acts with bitter dictatorial taste, black pages, written with a severe and indelible ink on the skin of citizens and in future history books. In this delirium of omnipotence filled with blackmail, inciuci, secret pacts, leghold traps, guillotines, thanks to promises to your faithful ally, in reality pride should be the prevailing feeling. Beyond the differences and political paths between us and you and your appointed President, beyond the power of the majority at the moment, we must listen to the will of the people. Step back, take a step back that will give you more honor and that will make you sleep more peacefully. No yes man, just citizen-friendly reforms! You see that the power, the coming, the imposing without asking, the doing without understanding, make you only the political children of Berlusconi, of which you have traced the worst ideas. Yet, a great statesman is recognized by the ability to reverse the course, but with style. And, instead, all this leads to a clumsy Schettino ready to sink Italy, in the gesture of a dirty and petty bow. Or is it believed that in order to sit at your reform table, we need to do the homework while you share the constitutional chessboard with criminals, lobbyists and servants? A twenty-year stay at Palazzo Chigi, a widespread and powerful information piloted in RAI and Mediaset will not justify to voters the will of the majority to seal the distance between politics and citizens. The repealing referendums go from 500,000 to 800,000 signatures; the laws of popular initiative instead go from 50,000 to 250,000 signatures. The great reforms - in a country like Italy - cannot be daughters of the will of two men, but they must be shared as much as possible. They require foresight, humility, conscience, heart and pride. All for the good of the nation. A nation is such if it fully expresses the concept of democracy! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u14	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u15	Madam President, we are living in a very heavy moment, but it seems to be of interest to a few people; it seems to be a step like this, a legging of any kind, while we are marking a disaster - and not a turning point - that is epochal. We are eating or eating what people far more worthy of me certainly, but I think of all of us, they built in 1948; we are eating the real democracy built with that Constitution. Someone woke up in the morning - I thought I'd be on the sidelines - and presented this constitutional reform. Unfortunately, this is not the case: it is not a joke, but it is the reality. As far as I am concerned, this is unacceptable. This is my personal position, which does not involve any colleague in and out of this House; it is a position that derives from the history and culture from which I come, which I have never denied and will never deny, values and ideals, details that are not negotiable at all for anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Di Maggio]] ). They are not negotiable with a hypothetical candidacy or reappearance. I don't want to disappoint everyone, but whoever hopes to have it won't get anything! It is also dramatic to imagine trading values and ideals - if you have them - for an armchair. That leaves me appalled. I come from five regional legislatures, in a region that has had no scandal with regard to the Groups, to be clear, that is, Puglia. I'm in the minority, so I might as well have fun. I'm absolutely serene. I came here, pushed by my friends, now at my age with a little enthusiasm to understand what I already knew, having attended this House when I was younger, city councilman, city councilman, regional councillor in 1990; here I met people of the highest level, of every political color. I have seen how many noble pages have been written in this House, not by me, but by so many people who have preceded us since 1948. Suddenly you decide to erase all of this. I address an invitation to the speakers: please, which Senate of the Republic? Call it whatever you want, because calling it the Senate of the Republic is an offense to the Senate there was. What you want to vote for and vote for! [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Di Maggio.]] That is unacceptable. I say: there are the dignity and love of each one of us. How can you bend to all this? How can you bend to diktats? How can we bend to a government that imposes constitutional reforms? In other times there would be a revolution! Everything should start with parliamentary groups and parties as such. Everything is transformed, the stakes of the country's democracy are eaten and everything is silent, with the complicity of information, which describes us who oppose - at least as far as I am concerned - as those who do not want reforms. I have tabled an amendment to abolish the Senate: it would be more serious and more respectful for the pages that have been written in this House over the decades. [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] , Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC and Senator Di Maggio). That's the real problem! Holy Virgin, political agreements are made, everything is presented, but where is the respect of the person? Where is the respect of 315 human beings, who are here and who only have to perform? If we're gonna do some serious stuff, we're very available. We have to argue, but - holy Virgin! - one cannot ask who, perhaps immodestly, believes that he has values and ideals in his own cultural background - for someone who is outdated, but in reality still lives, because in twenty years nothing has been built different in terms of values and ideals - to bow down only the head and vote what he does not share and does not feel. It is absurd to delete this way: behind the word "senator" there are human beings. You can argue and you can try to understand. I'm 65 years old and I'm no longer a candidate for anything, but honestly, there's a huge anger in me for everything that's going on. There's boundless anger for all those who shut up! Do you have self-love and dignity or do you not have it? [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] , Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC). Are you senators of the Republic or are you puppets? I'll tell you with my heart. This is a battle for a true democracy, against an unacceptable plebiscytic drift. The time has come to put an end to all forms of populism in this country, because until now I have seen no advantage for the nation coming from populism. This is the real and true fact and these are the ideals that drive me to say that this is absurd. I repeat the invitation to the speakers: the name "Senate of the Republic" is offensive to what was this Senate. This is the real and true fact. These are serious problems and all this is really incredible. We're asking for an elective Senate, but it looks like we're asking for monstrosity. It is said that anyone who wants an elective Senate is against reforms. As I said, I would prefer to abolish the Senate: imagine how this goes beyond the current reforms. Who is against these reforms, according to President Renzi, does it because he wants to defend his own compensation: what a gratuitousness, what a vulgarity of expression! It's something incredible: what a lie! Do we want real reforms? Let's do it! Let us discuss bringing the number of senators to 100 or 50, but let them be elected! And for the House of Deputies, if there must be slimming care, there must be! Let it be clear that I do not generally agree with this, because I have always asked myself a question: why did people of that cultural level, like the constituents of 1948 - from the right, to the left, to the center - predict those numbers for the composition of the Chambers? The answer lies in the enlargement of the democratic base. The more people there are, the less chaste there should be and the more democracy there is. We came then after fascism. Senators, even though in different ages, we are witnessing similar things. We have to do what we have to do. If it were for me, honestly, I would not decrease the number of members of the Chambers of a single unit and I say that I am not a candidate for either the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate or the City Council. I believe in the conclusion to which the constituents arrived, after serious, in-depth and culturally serious debates. I believe it: I am nothing and so many of us are nothing compared to their level and the suffering from which those people came [[Applause from Senator Serra.]] It is said instead: we delete everything. But do you realize that we are erasing democracy? For the so-called political costs, we reduce the municipal councils and abolish the provincial councils (in fact then we have something else, but let's forget it). Let's get this over with. Now let's make a puppet: think that I was a regional advisor and I had to resign when I became a senator. Now the regional councillors become senators. We're really on the paradox! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mineo.]] It's an incredible thing, it's a demential reform: out of respect for each of you, have the courage not to vote on the demential things and not to bend to anyone, that's the real problem! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and the Senators Di Maggio, Gambaro and Campanella.]] This is something that - I repeat - does not involve anyone or anything, but my feeling, my values and my ideals: those who have different values, votes in different ways, but I believe that one day we will have to look in the mirror, for the damage we will do; it is not a legend, but a constitutional reform, which will cause enormous damage, difficult to correct. And this is just the first step, so let's wait for something else. Save it on the Senate? Let's save money on the House! But when are we gonna shut down all the useless bodies? Do we have to save money and then make constitutional reforms to save money? Constitutional reforms should be done so that everything works better, not to save money: what principle is this? Then it's a commercial to feed the popular vulgate, so you can say: I've reduced, I'm done! That's it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Bravo! Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). I would also like to say one thing serenely - and there would be so much more, but there is the risk of becoming monotonous and falling into rhetoric - although I am sorry that President Grasso is not present: I greeted with satisfaction when he took a position on this attack on the Senate, but then silence has dropped, while I expected a tight, non-corporate defence, for what the Senate is and has been also at this time, for its parliamentary productivity compared to that of the House, while everything has flattened. The diktat strikes everyone: I understand the super partes role, but you, Senator Grasso, are the President of the Senate and this institution must defend it, while it seems to have to be cancelled. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] I ask everyone else: the day when - I don't know when, but soon - this thing will be voted on, who will we be? What title do we have to continue to vote on the laws? We have already been delegitimized these days, but when you have voted it you will no longer have any title: let's realize that we are closing barracks and puppets, so on the street they will laugh even more. But, holy Virgin, then why all this race? I have never seen constitutional reforms proposed four years after the end of my term of office: in fact, I do not want to disappoint everyone, but get ready to vote in the next spring (and I say "appreciate" because I will not be a candidate, so the problem does not concern me); then, who knows what other measure for the injured majesty will come, but it is not a problem. With regard to ideal battles, in fact, everything is done, because on ideality, principles and values I am not willing to treat anything, nor is it conceivable that on ideals, principles and values on constitutional reforms one can invoke party discipline: we are not voting on a budget law, this is the true fact, then we do what we want. I respond for myself, for my values, for my ideals and for my beliefs, which I expressed here, even if briefly: I am talking about these things with so much suffering, because, closing my political career, I hoped to live different times and to see a different horizon, as well as a return to more accomplished democracy, even with all the correctives that had to be put in place, certainly not these demential reforms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC and Senators Gambaro and Gentile. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Senate is a very important step in the path of change set by the Renzi Government in this legislature. This reform is part of a process that aims to make legislative action more effective and that will have to lead to produce rules in a shorter time and to avoid duplication in the phase of formation of laws, determined by the bicameralism that the constituent Fathers had chosen to adopt in the new Republic out of the war and twenty years of fascist dictatorship. The double passage guaranteed balance, created security and ensured that the different composition of the Chambers had weight and that in the readings that followed one could give a role to positions in the field, harmonizing the different sensibilities out of war and resistance, through constitutionally recognized guarantees. It was about putting in place all possible deterrents to avoid undemocratic imbalances at that historic moment, given the burning and too recent memories. It was, therefore, a Constitution that responded to the historical phase of which it was an expression; a Constitution whose second part welcomed and mediated between fears and memories of suffering of the people. Over the years, however, the limit of this approach has been felt and the debate has grown, year after year, on the desirability of maintaining the perfect bicameralism in Italy: too many negative repercussions on the process of formation and approval of the laws and too much time to reach the definitive approval of a measure. Apart from a few points in the debate, which are also necessary at such a delicate time, it seems to me, however, that the political forces in general agree on overcoming bicameralism. The important question, the one on which there is the wider debate, is, of course, that of functions and therefore the necessary discrepancy between the functions of one House and the other. The text we are examining here proposes a balance arrangement, which is convincing colleagues; it is a balance arrangement in relation to functions. A work has been done that no one can say has been long, thorough, which has taken into account dozens of hearings, as the rapporteur has told us, and we ourselves have taken part in this process. Therefore, to say that this is a hasty reform is certainly something wrong and here in this House I have heard it in too many speeches. Of course, the more the two rooms we are going to define are different and complementary in their functions, the more we will have achieved a good reform. So it is normal for the second Chamber not to give confidence and to have reduced legislative powers: this is what is written in the text that we are examining. Of course, everyone can have different opinions and there is no doubt that he has them, he may not consider the produced text to be completely satisfactory, but what we are examining here is a text that is certainly consistent with the approach now shared at a general level and not only in Italy, an approach now consolidated in other national experiences that we find in many parliamentary realities in other countries of the world characterized by a bicameralism that is not equal. What seems normal in other countries, however, here in Italy becomes something dramatic, an attack on democracy - we have heard it even now in the last speech, but we have heard a lot in these hours - a sort of coup d'état. I believe that we must always try to maintain balance even in the use of words, for intellectual honesty and for the respect of citizens who often, having no time to deepen matters, are deceived by misleading statements that try to exasperate the reality of things. Can anyone argue that we are in an efficient state at the moment and that there is no need for a change, that we do not feel in all the articulations of the State a sort of stalemate, a immobility that needs to be removed? That is exactly what I want to address here, Madam President: the stalemate of a democracy. The reform of the Senate is what it must respond to, the accusation of ineffectiveness of the legislative action that is being done to the Italian Parliament. We have an opportunity to do the work that has been attempted in previous legislation by so many of our parliamentary predecessors; perhaps we are in the right situation to complete this reform. What about the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution? Can anyone honestly argue that it is not necessary, that it is not helpful to remove that confusion of competences that the last reform has left us in inheritance? How many times as public administrators - and here there are many - in cities or regions have we found ourselves in a position to appeal to administrative courts to resolve the dispute between the powers of the State and the Regions? How many times have we had to suspend deliberations and measures to figure out who should do what? All this cost a lot of time and money. Moreover, we have paid a high price, very high, and that is what interests me most: that of the growing distrust of citizens who, exhausted, awaited with us the judgments of the courts, then the Council of State and then still long times. Meanwhile, the economy runs away; opportunities are lost and those who observe us from outside rightly describe a state that is still, immobile, a State that is unable to solve the problems and that is enveloping in the inconclusion, as unfortunately it has had to remind us once again, not more than a week ago, the President of the Republic and we are waiting here, waiting and still waiting. All this is now intolerable; this is intolerable, ladies and gentlemen, not the many other things I have heard in this House. Just talk to our young people, just look at our company, less and less competitive and jammed by bureaucracy, just examine the simplified systems and procedures of the other European countries, our competitors in the market, to understand that time is now a variable from which you can not ignore. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u18	Excuse me, Senator. Senator Romani, I'm just asking you to keep your voice down. Thank you. Please, Senator Di Giorgi, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u19	DI GIORGI (PD). The speed of implementation of processes is crucial for success and competitiveness in a globalized world in which information runs in real time, while we duplicate acts - for example in the various passages between one House and the other - and functions in public administration and drive potential investors away, which could help us build wealth in our country. Then we can begin, first of all trying to make the laws more quickly, precisely with a bicameralism no longer equal, and trying to distinguish well the functions between State and Regions, with the definition finally of a good Title V no longer contradictory. Through these passages, which can no longer be postponed, we try to regain honour and credibility among the citizens. I agree with those who say that approving this measure is the first important component of a new major reform season. We must realize that we are at this historic stage. We can be the protagonists of this, ourselves, the parliamentarians of the 17th legislature. I think it's a good time to create something new and coherent, of course with humility and an attitude for comparison on the part of everyone; something that perhaps we can even be proud of in the coming years, have you thought about? Some people note that constitutional reforms - as we have heard even now - need more time and that this government has set too fast a time. But do we really believe that in this moment of emergency we can afford to stand still? Things can be done well even quickly. It is said that the reforms that the European economy wants - this is the other topic - are those related to work, those related to the economy, to the reform of public administration and so on - issues that the majority and the government are facing - and that the urgent reforms are certainly not those of the Senate and Title V, which are not of interest to anyone. That's a long way from my opinion. We are convinced that this reform of the Senate, which talks about the composition and functioning of the legislative assemblies, is the most delicate and important, the one that must give the basis and solidity - I like this term - to our democracy, the prerequisite for becoming more effective and credible as a nation. I end up with a very small consideration, Madam President, which tells of the confusion that is characterizing our country. For someone this reform was not essential - but we have a totally different view - and it is useless at this time when we have much more to think about and minimize its scope. For someone else, however, it is a demonstration of the authoritarian attack on our democracy, a law that will destroy the foundations of civil life and the civil relationship between political parties. When this happens, that is, when there are absolutely contradictory and configuring interpretations, it means perhaps that one has lost clarity and that it is urgent to try to see things with greater balance. The attempt of the political forces that support this reform is precisely to try to propose to everyone to give up something, in the name of a result that, if it cannot be perfect, precisely as a result of mediation, can however be considered a good point of arrival, a good response to the demand for functionality and credibility of the State that comes to us from our citizens and our European partners. It is our time to give answers and we cannot afford to pretend that it is not up to us and to postpone, postpone and, again, postpone. I am convinced that we are witnessing a good debate in these hours in the Senate, with different views confronting each other, which is then what needs to be done in Parliament. We are working on a great reform. With the contribution of all in the amending activity, I believe that we can further give that proof of maturity that is expected from the Senate of the Republic and of the ability to listen to the reasons of both, to reach the best synthesis of which we will be able and for which we will be held responsible in the future. [[Applause from Senator Russo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u20	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution is being submitted to this House with a haste and superficiality that leave us bewildered. We are witnessing a dangerous trial that undermines the foundations of the same rule of law, where freedom in the State is nothing more than a means of guaranteeing freedom from the State. The state - using Gerber's beautiful definition - understood as a "legal manifestation of collective life" - reaches one of the highest levels of expression of the deep identity of the nation, creating its own Constitution. The State, self-limiting itself and choosing to subject itself to law, consecrates the value of civilization that it represents in a given historical period, through a specific constitutional dictation. In fact, only the definitive approval of the Constitutional Charter makes it possible to clarify the basic choices made by the community and its ruling class. The decision to open a process of reform of the Basic Law of the State should therefore be a process faced with the utmost wisdom, a word that may have fallen into desuetude. We are all well aware that we have been presented with an inadequate reform which demolishes some of the founding principles of our Constitution which, until a few months ago, was considered the most beautiful in the world, even by many members of the majority group. But even if you do not want to use hyperboli, it is certainly one of the most balanced and guaranteed in terms of balancing the powers of the state. As a preliminary step, I feel the need to reiterate a key step in the question raised by the 5 Star Movement: our Constitutional Charter has a unitary sense. It is not considered possible, nor legally productive, to separate the material Constitution from the formal one, thinking that it can proceed to heavily transform one of the two parts, leaving the other unchanged. Only this simple reflection should be sufficient to induce a step back for a more accurate reflection on the acts that are being carried out. There is no doubt that some adjustments are necessary, but they should be aimed at strengthening and not at humiliating Parliament's role, for the benefit of executive power. These changes should be accompanied, rather they should follow an electoral reform involving election by popular suffrage for the Senate on a strictly proportional basis, in order to ensure the representation of all political forces and respect for pluralism, the presence of minorities and respect for the role of control by opposition. This reform is untimely, partly because the electoral reform has not yet been defined, which, in the form already approved by the House, but still not definitive, will be based on principles of hyper-majority. It is therefore impossible to express a thoughtful opinion and discuss the revision of the Senate before the final approval of the electoral reform, in relation to the way in which the House will be elected and whether the principle of full representation and respect for political pluralism will be respected, and to what extent. We know that, through the so-called Italicum electoral reform, we want to achieve a highly majority system with the justification that we want to ensure governance. In fact, due to the combined arrangement of the two reforms, the electoral reform in the majority and that of the present Senate, it will result in Parliament being reduced to merely ratifying the government's decisions: all this against the pluralistic and participatory conception of democracy, which comes from constitutional principles, and opening the way to authoritarian involutions of the political system. Even more short-sighted are, in my opinion, the justifications for saving on fundamental instruments of democracy. It would be worthwhile, then, to minimise Members of Parliament, to hold elections every ten years or even to eliminate them altogether. Not to mention the fact that - as we have repeatedly denounced, last through our preliminary question - this Parliament, according to the Constitutional Court, was elected by an unconstitutional law characterized by an unlimited compression of representativeness and by the injury of equality in the vote. Therefore, as such, this Parliament would not be entitled to put such a heavy hand in the constitutional system. It is useful to remind all present that, in line with the words expressed in judgment No 1 of the Constitutional Court of 2014, the "delicate functions connected with the same guarantee of the Constitution" cannot be carried out by Chambers elected with provisions solemnly judged outside the democratic and constitutional principles. Why ignore the warning of our highest court? Why is this reform so hasty and inevitably misguided? To ensure governance, the advocates of reform say. Madam President, in order to solve the problem of governability, it would have been enough to subtract the vote of confidence from the Senate. Because the legislative process is too slow is another argument that is often invoked. That, in our view, is also not the case. This House has shown that it is able to work very quickly: it is proof of this that the reform on international cooperation was adopted only a couple of weeks ago. We all know that the work of the Chambers is hindered and absorbed almost completely by the government decrees that must be converted, while the legislative acts of parliamentary origin remain blocked. The truth is that Parliament has already been largely deprived of its prerogatives as legislator. This reform is intended to distort the bicameral constitutional structure, transforming the Senate into a body that for functions and composition does not have equals in the evolved democracies where, on the contrary, the rule is bicameralism that ensures political representativeness, control over the Executive, protection and guarantees for citizens' rights. I am also concerned about the composition of the new Senate: local administrators, who will not be able to guarantee the commitment to fulfill their mandate as they are already absorbed by other demanding functions in the local administration. Madam President, you do not really feel the need for such a Senate. However, if we want to overcome the bicameralism of equality, we do not believe that reform is necessary, at least one should foresee a Senate with functions of true High Chamber, a Chamber of Guarantees for all citizens, composed of senators elected by popular suffrage. The Senate should make a contribution to the country in terms of political vision and far-reaching reforms, the protection of long-term interests; borrowing Professor Dogliani's quotation, is at stake in the preservation of the future. This House could act as a stimulus to the major reforms that Italy so urgently needs. In addition, the Senate should have competence for the drafting of unique codes and texts, organic laws for regulatory simplification. We should put a stop to legislative inflation which has negative consequences on the same legality; to a way of producing laws that are often unnecessarily complicated, so much so that the Constitutional Court, by ruling n. 364 of 1988, now considered unrealistic the principle of the non-excusability of the ignorant law, given the difficult availability and incomprehensibility of certain laws, sometimes contradictory, too complicated, with continuous referrals to other norms. These are some of the main tasks and challenges that should be assigned to the new Senate. One of the most useful would be a simplification of the entire legal system, a true 'bonification of the existing legislation' to use a definition of Professor Ferraioli, through organic laws implementing and guaranteeing fundamental rights, unique texts or codes in matters such as environment, health, work, to name but a few, and the organic reserve of law so that even the new laws in such matters are inserted directly into the corresponding organic laws. Through this competence for legislative simplification and genuine refoundation of the legality assigned to the Senate would give an important role of guarantee to Parliament that it could gain new credit to the citizens. Instead of demeaning the Senate both in its functions and in its composition, as established by this reform, it could have been affected in other forms, for example by improving the regulations of both chambers to speed up the legislative process, as already proposed by others. Wanting to overcome the bicameralism of equality, it would have been possible to foresee a Senate with functions of true high Chamber to guarantee and continuous maintenance of democratic institutions and to stimulate the great true reforms, which are many others, which our country urgently needs. In view of the many serious concerns expressed in this and other forums by myself and my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group, the Senate should take note of the need to take a step back and vote negatively on bill No. 1429. In the hope of having spoken to a very eager audience, I conclude with a brief sentence from the famous speech on the Constitution of Piero Calamandrei, one of the constituent Fathers, often mentioned in this House and always present. In the Constitution there is our whole history: all our past, all our sorrows, our misfortunes, our glories, have all resulted here, in these articles. And to understand behind these articles, you hear distant voices. Madam President, today, these voices that must not remain unheard of are those of Italian citizens who want to defend democracy and Parliament as a real balance of executive power, their right to parliamentary representation based on popular suffrage, the elective Senate, because it is never superfluous to remember that sovereignty, not only formal but substantial, must continue to belong to the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a speech but, given the length of the speech, I do not think I can complete it. I therefore ask that we be able to hand it over so that it is annexed to the Report and that we be able to have a shorter oral intervention instead.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u24	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u25	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). The words spoken by Mr Tarquinio have led me to make some reflections that emerge within me one after the other. Referring to Senator Tarquinio's speech, I was wondering, for example, what it makes sense in this House to speak loudly, to try to support some of the thesis in defence not of the Senate itself, but of the Senate and of what it represents for Italian citizens when the President of the Council does not deserve to be present and listen to the reflections of the parliamentarians, when the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament does not deserve to be present to listen. I shall then take another thought and say to myself that perhaps it is not Mr Tarquinio who must feel humiliated. It is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that should feel humiliated and, in particular, those who represent it because neither the President-in-Office of the Council nor this Minister is present asking for reforms; reforms that know perfectly well are not fair and correct in the interests of the country, yet with great force they ask and push others forward. They don't deserve to listen because it doesn't matter what Members say, it doesn't matter what those who represent the Italian people say, so much so that in recent months they have explained things diametrically opposed to what they told us until a few days ago. Mr Tarquinio is right when he says: I, regional councillor, knew, had explained to me, and up to now I was convinced (not only am I convinced, but the law provides it) that, in case I had to exercise two roles, that of senator and that of regional advisor, one of the two must abandon him. By chance, a gentleman carrying the name Goldoni referring to the harlequins (and there are many in here), claimed that even Harlequin can not have two masters. But we forget it. Today the opposite is true of what Goldoni said: Harlequins can have two masters. They may serve two masters but not play roles. That is to say, they will be incompetent, inconclusive and inefficient both in one role and in the other. But it doesn't matter what Members say because we don't count anything. Because there is no respect for those who have white hair. You have respect for those who have black hair. If white hair comes with someone like Tarquinio, who is full of wisdom, it doesn't matter. It is that wisdom is no longer fashionable; by now values are no longer fashionable. Values must be erased, but someone was wondering: can a society without values survive? This Renzi explains: yes, without values he can survive. A society made up of characters who are liars, by characters who say one thing today and after an hour they say the opposite. As a matter of fact, the expression of our President-in-Office of the Council, who, speaking with his friend, Mr Letta, says: 'Relax because we want to do the good of the community and we will never betray the commitment and neither what came out of it by a majority.' After a few minutes, however, the opposite happens and we are all here to beatify this character who does not respect the commitments, who does not respect the pacts: as my daughter Arianna 12 years old says, this capricious child. We, perhaps with some white hair, do nothing but say to our capricious child: good, you are really good. You know, because this society must no longer be founded on values: this is not a society that must commit itself to the word and that must defend people, democracy, the state. This is a society of men who do not keep their word, of clowns who do not have the ability to play their role. Well, we're here to say good things. Maybe, friends, it's not my fault, because I'm very small, tall and also as a political man. I was harshly criticized in 2010 when I dared to apply Article 67 in the interest of the country. Men who are in this Senate Chamber have been scandalized and who today - I was going to use a very strong term and I apologize - are doing some bad things (I wanted to use another terminology). I was proud then and I am proud to give and take positions that will respond to my conscience, because the parliamentarians must have the courage, in times of difficulty, to carry out their ideas. However, if one finds out that his ideas are wrong, it is necessary, not a step back, but ten. Let's go back for a second. Why, as I said then, do I have to stand up for a strong battle within the Senate, for what I can give? Of course, they are not excellence as someone who has been in here for 25 or 30 years and who has been humiliated by Renzi and who pretends not to understand; today he wears the bag, or, as they say in football jargon, the "sponza" (sponza), that is, the bucket with water and sponge. So, I have responsibilities. For the responsibilities I have, I take my strong position in this House and say that I will defend this Senate. But I do not defend him, as Senator Tarquinio rightly said, because in the morning I will have to go back to being a senator. I have said it in the past and I keep saying it: each of us, after three legislative acts at most, excluding a few exceptions, should return to doing the work he did before. I try to defend it because something precious and beautiful that we have in Italy today we sell it and tell everyone that this bicameralism is something outdated and abnormal. Today those who claim to be constitutionalists say that it is something wrong; they say that it is something outdated and they want to change it. I might be there, but certainly not as they want to change it, that is, by doing - I apologize, I do not want to use a strong term - something wrong: to return to Goldoni, a gentleman who must be in Palermo on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and at the same time in Rome can never do well and at the same time double work? A friend of mine who is no longer here today once explained to me that a person cannot stay at the same time in Rio de Janeiro and Rome. I couldn't understand and then jokingly asked me if I hadn't met Professor Basaglia and suggested that I dust some of that illustrious character's books. So, who thinks they're staying at the same time in Rio de Janeiro and Rome needs the care of Professor Basaglia, who is no longer there, poor man, but has left something that each of us should treasure, to go further and to understand what is written. Article 1 of our Constitution, dear constitutionalists present in this House, says that sovereignty belongs to the people, and what do we do instead? We are talking about a Senate that will no longer be elected by the people, but by those who until yesterday were criticized by most of you: the regional advisors. Madam President, this President-in-Office of the Council, whom I do not see, reminds me of those who are in the PD Group in the Senate today, who yesterday, referring to President Berlusconi when he was missing in the House, shouted at him. Today no one comes to mind a reflection: the Senate is no longer elected by the people, but by the regional councillors who will have to elect this new representation made up of regional councillors and mayors. But how does a mayor of a city of 50,000, 100,000, a million inhabitants be the mayor and the senator at the same time? How's he gonna do that? We who are senators of the Republic do not have time to breathe, but if at the same time we were also mayors or regional councillors how would we be able to play the role seriously, correctly and concretely? This is a question that we ask ourselves, a reflection that we do aloud; and to whom do we give it to carry it forward? We give it to our political points of reference, not because we want to create difficulties or damage or because we want to do obstructionism, but because we just want to open a dialectic, perhaps harsh, strong within the party to build something that is useful for those present, but also for those who will come tomorrow, for our children. The choice that we will make today - and I certainly will not be responsible for a wretched choice - will not affect the heads of those who are present in this Parliament, but it will affect our future, our children's heads. So today, we have an obligation to say what we think. Madam President, even for reasons of time, I did not want to read my speech; I am going to my arms because I want to say what I think, perhaps in some passage with my voice trembles because I feel with my heart what I am saying, because I did not die while inside this Senate there are many who have died. [[Applause from the FI-PdL, M5S, LN-Aut and GAL Groups]] , who do not hear the voice of the heart, who do not feel the emotion of the intervention, because they are now stuck, because they now have a cliché to carry on and do not worry about what the future of our country will be, but they are concerned about how to stay inside this House for another 20 years, because they have to do 30 plus 20 to get to 50. Today I am proud to say what I think and to reiterate what I did on December 14, 2010 and to do it again today, because before everything comes my conscience and I have sworn a covenant of fidelity with the voters because Article 67 is not a number to remember alone and exclusively at some moments, but it is something that we should all have within our heads and hearts: a commitment to that Constitution that each of us should respect and carry forward until that Constitution is present and until it is our point of reference. So, colleagues, there are so many things that have been said. There has been talk, for example, of governance, but can this go to the detriment of representation? Dear Madam President, I remember for a moment when everyone said that health should not be more solidarity but productivity. Did you see what came out of this? See how health care is combined in our country? Then, today, some highly important constitutionalist speaks of governability, but at the expense of representation. Is it conceivable? Let us ask ourselves: is it normal for this to happen? Are you serious? They then inserted the prediction that the Senate of the Republic no longer represents the Italian people, the nation. So, Mr Tarquinio is right. He's asking what we're doing here and he's saying we should all go home. We leave immediately without talking about anything since we no longer represent anyone. Who do we represent? Roccacannuccia City Council? Will we represent the Provincial Council of San Giovanni, Region X or Region Y? We no longer represent Italians and nobody cares about them; no one thinks it's right or wrong. Dear Madam President, I am convinced that there are decent people in this House and that each of them is trying to bring home something useful in the interests of the country, but I am convinced that there is some presumptuous and some arrogant. I am convinced that there is someone who in dialectal siculo slang lets us say that he has a nose up and cannot look in the mirror because the nose is very long and touches the mirror and consequently he must put himself sideways. As I believe that in this Chamber there are decent people and that everyone in the difference of their positions tries to bring home something useful and constructive for the country, I am convinced that there is some presumptuous person who tries not to bring things useful for the country, but only and exclusively to make the not personal but of his own Group or of the party he represents. Madam President, I hope that some changes will be made during our debate, because in that case, perhaps with great bitterness, I could choose to support this reform. If these suggestions or amendments are not accepted by this majority, I will be forced to take a position with great pride. I took it on December 14, 2010 and I will continue to take it today. I was hoping that what happened on December 14 would no longer happen because I paid a price, but I am willing to repay it in the interests of the country, my children and the children of others who are my children. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u26	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the Presidency and, in particular, President Grasso, because this week, finally, from Monday, even at 11 a.m., something extraordinary, we are all here to work. After a year and a half from the settlement he finally managed to keep the promise he had made to the citizens at the beginning of his mandate: to get the Senate to work from Monday to Friday with wide spaces for the Commissions. We would have to wonder what we owe this leap of pride to this institution. I ask myself, and I ask all of you. Are we discussing citizenship income today? No! Are we discussing aid to small and medium-sized enterprises? No! Do we discuss school, university, research? No! Perspectives to get the country out of the crisis? No, none of this. Today the reform of Part II of the Constitution arrives in this House. We really felt the need to reform the Constitution. Who doesn't feel the need among the people in distress in this country? It is their first thought every day: abolishing the Senate. Firms that close and owners who take their lives because they don't have the money to pay their salaries; workers in the Cassa Integrazione now to the drains, students who abandon the universities because they can not cope with the straight lines. It seems that today we have the solution to all our evils: abolishing the Senate or rather turning it into a post-worker. This was defined by authoritative constitutionalists: an after-work for regional councillors and mayors. It's a parerificio. Unfortunately, I will also have to dread you with arguments that my colleagues have already used, but perhaps repetitious iuvant, as they say, for some message to pass. Today an elected Parliament with an unconstitutional electoral law is preparing to put its hand in the Constitution. Attention: not to make any adjustments, just to upset it in the middle of summer. This is an aspect that few have considered: in the middle of summer, with citizens on vacation. They better be far away, fresh and carefree! Evidently, from tradition, someone hopes that the summer heat will keep them away, both in the body and in the mind, from the ruin of the Constitution that we will soon see in this House. But the mess, in fact, has been under everyone's eyes for months. This law has been a mess since its birth. She is the daughter of an evil covenant, the covenant of the Nazarene, of which we will never know the clauses, the hidden ones, guarded more jealously than the third secret of Fatima. The seal of an agreement between convicts, an ideal passage of deliveries: from Berlusconi to Renzi. From a Berlusconi who had fallen from a senator because he was finally convicted of tax fraud and was subjected to other trials that were now being defined by a Renzi, who was guilty of a conviction at first instance of the Court of Auditors, who recently tried to delete it by decree. It is impossible not to name him Prime Minister in a country that is sinking under bribes and bribes, corruption, evil and organized crime! He was precisely the ideal Prime Minister, the mirror of the country, indeed of the institutions of this country, because the institutions are worse than the country that in this sense do not represent him. Just see the news of these days: it is yesterday the news of a further warranty notice, this time for Maroni, President of the Lombardy Region; one of the possible candidates, one of those you had even predicted as a member of the new Senate law. DI BIAGIO (PI). They didn't condemn him! CRIMI (M5S). In fact, it's just the beginning. There are many; Galan and how many others there are! Who knows what De Gasperi would think before such constituent Fathers! The disaster then continued in the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am pleased that the President of the Commission is here at this time. [[Comments of Senator Finocchiaro.]] I know that you have always been present, Mr President, but I have pointed out that it is at this time, since I was referring specifically to the work of the 1st Commission. For a text of such importance, not because it is a priority but because of the matter it is dealing with, you forced us to work for a good period in the pauses of the House: two - I stress two - days a week for a few hours, framing the work of the Commission between one sitting of the House and the other, except for the last week: it was a filling-up reform of the Constitution; that text was a filling-up. Except for the last week, in which the secretary's diktat evidently arrived, which dictated the new term and we worked very fast. The password was "rejected" and "rejected" for the House. Each amendment, which was also proposed by the majority, had to be withdrawn and then re-tabled in the Chamber, in order to speed up and go to the Chamber as soon as possible. Before, the rush was before the European elections. Do You Remember? Before the European elections, the first reading of the measure had to be approved. Then, perhaps, we were content with approval in the Commission. Then, on 12 June, we arrived in the Chamber. Now why the rush? What is the reason for this sudden acceleration? Within what period should this first reading be completed? Is there anything in the Nazarene Pact that we are missing, which concerns a deadline by which this reform must be approved at all costs? It is technical evidence of the Government that imposes its time on Parliament, no longer with the decree-laws that should have their reason to be in necessity and urgency, but imposing precisely the times of the discussion of the laws. It is the Constitution, gentlemen, and the Constitution is not a prerogative of the Government, it is not in the hands of the Government. The Constitution must be in the hands of Parliament. Get your hands off the Constitution! That's what we tell the government today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What confidence can we have today in the majority party that promised one thing in the election campaign and then, just after the elections, did the exact opposite? I would like to read to the members of the Democratic Party what was written in the electoral programme of their party with which they were elected, precisely in relation to constitutional reforms. At the section "Lines for the Modernization and Democratic Reform of the Constitutional Order" - this was the title - he promised: The reforms we propose must be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 138; we are opposed to the assumption of constituent assemblies or special commissions. What were you doing in your arms with Berlusconi at the very beginning of this legislature? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You were doing the exact opposite of what you promised your voters. We had to get on the roof for this reason, so that we could implement your party's program. It was we who had to climb the roof to implement the program of your party, the Democratic Party, never arrived! Do we want to talk about a referendum that only eight years ago had rejected a very similar reform, but in some ways perhaps better than that now under consideration because at least it provided for the election by universal suffrage? Someone called it a decent piece of shit compared to this one, which is a total piece of shit! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]] Madam President, forgive me for using the expression, but I had to compensate for the very limited terminology used by Senator Scilypoti. Today we are in a worse situation because the government, like a caterpillar, directly asphalts Parliament with its imposed text, and I stress the term 'imposed'. Do we want to remember what happened in the Commission? The text of an agenda binding on the Commission to follow a certain course was adopted by a majority, which provided for the direct election of senators by universal suffrage as an essential element. A few minutes after the rapporteur's proposal - curiosity, one of the speakers was precisely the extensor of that agenda, namely Senator Calderoli - instead it was proposed to adopt the original basic text of the Government, then approved by the majority, with an immediate change of course of someone who had just voted on an agenda and then a different basic text. We were told that the basic text would be modified and that it was only the basic text, a starting point. In fact, if it has been changed, it has been done only for the worse, because the most important element, that of the senators' electivity, has not been introduced. Now I'm going to go a little bit further on the substance of the measure, just to point out the inconsistencies. Let's start with the fact that the Senate represents the institutions. I tell you here, although I do not agree with this choice, that perhaps the original text of the Government was more sensible than what we are about to approve today. In fact, when the senators represent the institutions and therefore no longer the citizens, I wonder what is the point of measuring the quantity by region according to the population. Of the two: either they represent the citizens and then we predict many by Region as many as the citizens, or they represent the institutions and, therefore, we put one or two for each institution. Maybe that formula made more sense. I do not say this because I agree with this approach, but simply to highlight how, in order to try to please each other, that is, to give the contentment of the amount of senators for Lombardy, higher than that of the senators of Molise and Valle d'Aosta, an obbrobrium has been created, which constitutionally does not stand. In fact, if you represent the institutions, you represent those and not the citizens and therefore you do not measure the quantity according to the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Perhaps this should move us to re-establish the concept of electiveity on the part of citizens. In this case, perhaps the mandate bond should be introduced. If the institutions are represented, those institutions give a mandate to represent them and, as such, the deliberations of those institutions must necessarily be carried out. So, that Senate will have a mandate bond, even if not written down, in fact. It won't be a free senate. It will be a Senate in which the representatives of the institutions will have to fulfill what the institution orders. Otherwise we can assume that, for example, the President of the Region could resign, in order to make all senators decay. The bond is there because, however, they are closely bound. Let's call things by their names. I had already pointed out this in my speech on the question referred for a preliminary ruling: the senators are appointed and not elected. We talk about elected people when there is a chance to run and someone writes a name on the ballot. The senators will be appointed instead. In Molise a senator will be elected between the regional councillors and a mayor. But in your opinion, this regional councillor to which political group will he belong? It will belong to the majority. And how will they choose him? They'll choose him. So much is worth calling things by their own names. Let's not make fun of each other. They're nominated. In the original version of the bill, if I remember correctly, we were talking about designated persons. Let us then give the correct name and not soften the words just to make fun of ourselves. They're nominations! Let's talk about the number of senators. They were reduced to 158 before. Now there are 100: 95 plus 5 nominations of the President of the Republic. Compared to the Chamber of Deputies, whose composition has remained unchanged, the reduction in the number of senators is disproportionate. In fact, there are 100 senators, compared with 630 Members. We begin to take into account every time Parliament meets in a joint sitting for the election of the principals of democracy. The election of the President of the Republic and the members of the Constitutional Court and the CSM will be the sole decision of a majority elected by majority law. It is now clear that the address is to approve a highly majority electoral law. If we are to reduce the senators to a third, we are also intervening on the number of Members of the House of Deputies. Let us reduce to half the disproportionate number of 630 Members. But if we really don't want to get to the middle, let's reduce it to at least a reasonable number, like 500 or 450 members: let's decide it together. But also on the number of 100 senators you have to be careful. When trying to identify a reasonable number of senators, considering how they are appointed, their origin should be taken into account. If we have to name a tot of senators by Region, perhaps we have to do the calculations well, because if we reduce the number of senators by much, when this number is divided between the Regions, with all the limits provided - with a minimum two senators by Region and the same for the autonomous Provinces - in the end there is a total imbalance between Regions, like Lombardy, with 10 million inhabitants (since we wanted to make the proportion according to the number of inhabitants) and Regions with 500,000 inhabitants. In this case, the ratio of the number of appointed senators does not reflect the ratio of the population: the more the number of senators increases, the more you guarantee that the distribution is correct; the lower the number and the less the distribution will be proportionally corrected. We also have five senators appointed by the President of the Republic, who last seven years. We really didn't want to take this off. We were talking about abolishing senators for life, but the five nominated by the President of the Republic must always be there somehow. But five out of 315 senators represent 1.5%, while five out of 100 senators represent 5 percent. In fact, we tripled the number of presidential senators, compared to the total: let's face it clearly. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] 5% of the senators will be presidential and they are senators who will elect the same President of the Republic. We have also constitutionalized the guillotine imposed by the government. This is perhaps one of the most serious aspects of constitutional reform, for two reasons, the first of which is the fact that a rule was introduced in the Constitution that perhaps had to be included in the Rules of Procedure; while compared to so many other clauses that we would have liked to see in the Constitution, we were told that the Rules of Procedure or ordinary law should have been dealt with. But there are technical details about how the government can "fuck" Parliament and I am using a euphemism. How can he do that? He can do this by presenting a bill and imposing his time for the discussion of that bill. If within 60 days the text is not approved, rejected or otherwise deliberated, the text will go to the Assembly as it is, according to that article. There are no amendments and there is no debate. The text will be discussed by the Assembly and Rule by Rule will be voted on. We have written this in the Constitution; be careful, not in a specific Technical Regulation. In the original version there was even the expression "in short time": the Government, that is, could even set shorter times, but the speech has been removed and I hope that no one has in mind to restore it because until the last moment before the approval there may be traps. This, however, is yet another proof that the Government wants to put Parliament under its wing: now we will have no more decrees but the draft law of urgency, according to the Government's prescriptions. Attention, however: what is the motivation? While for the decree there were the necessity and urgency that could therefore be assessed here the criterion is the implementation of the government program, not even of the Parliament or of the elected political force. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The government didn't show up for an election with a program. Instead, it was the Democratic Party, the 5 Star Movement, Forza Italia or the New Right Centre that presented themselves with a program: then a Government arrives and, on the occasion of its inauguration, presents to the House a programme, which is its government programme, and to implement it - even if no one has voted it, except with the limited confidence of this Parliament - decides to "make" the prerogatives of Parliament. There is also the knot of the referendum: here again, I come back to the speech of the amendments withdrawn from the House, some of which have been tabled by prominent members of the majority, whom I would really like to call for pride in their interesting proposals, which have seen our immediate acceptance. I am referring, for example, to the establishment of a proactive referendum: if a law of popular initiative is not deliberated within a long time - which should, yes, be included in the Constitution, since it is a few words - it is automatically possible to access the institution of the proposed referendum, in order to allow citizens to see their legislative initiative implemented anyway. It would be a referendum with a reduced quorum. Well, this proposal has been withdrawn for the House, but I hope to see it put back here, because we will vote for it and we expect those who have tabled it to vote for it. They re-produce it, without being subjugated by the government's impositions. There was talk of the Constitutional Court's prior scrutiny of repealing referendums and there was a common need not to cause the effect of frustration resulting from hearing people say after collecting 500,000 signatures from the Constitutional Court. "I'm sorry, this text is neither legitimate nor constitutionally acceptable." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, I invite you to conclude. CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I will finish right away. It had been said and proposed that the Constitutional Court should be immediately expressed, so that the texts submitted were accepted or rejected immediately and then the signatures could be collected. But no, therefore, before the signatures were 500,000, now they become 400,000 (in fact always 500,000), after which the Court of Cassation must assess - because someone must count them - and the Constitutional Court must express itself, then we must collect the other 400,000 to reach 800,000 (which in fact is a million); then the Cassation must count them again (so it takes more time); we have forgotten that the Constitutional Court must decide a second time. You will ask me why: in the meantime, there may have been laws that have changed the legal framework, so that referendum must be evaluated by it once again. We have therefore created a doubling of the procedures: if first we needed 500 000 signatures and then there was the evaluation of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, now we need 400,000 first, to be submitted to the assessment of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, then another 400,000 signatures, to be submitted again to the assessment of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, all in one year, in order to facilitate the participation of the citizens. Thanks to the government! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u28	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u29	Madam President, given what has happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and just because I would not like there to be a drift from the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I would like to ask you - and in this respect I also ask for the help of President Calderoli - if you are aware that usually, when there are group meetings, the House is suspended. Is that customary? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I notice this dichotomy. We are discussing at the Democratic Party Group meeting the important issue of constitutional reform, which would be much more important to follow in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u30	Senator Di Maggio, you go ahead and do your surgery. Everyone is free, as you see, to make other choices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u31	Please, Senator Di Maggio. IN MAY (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I hoped that there would be some sort of resistance, as it were. I saw the title of the "Corrierone" - the "Corriere della Sera" - and I said to myself: Toh, constitutional reform becomes the honours of the Corriere's first page! "Don't water down the rules": it's the title. I was dramatically wrong: it refers to President Draghi's warning, while the country's most important law is still being discussed in the internal pages. It is impossible for me to deal with the subject on the agenda without including it in the context in which it has developed, a surreal context that does not belong to any Western democracy. Have you ever heard, in fact, of constitutional reforms that start or start from the government? By the way, the Government: I don't want the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, present in the Chamber, but there is a Minister for Constitutional Reforms who signed this text, the absence of which today denotes the level of interest or perhaps the "all done" already. Why does this happen with us and why does it happen like this? As I listened to the parliamentary debate, I was able to verify that there is essentially general convergence on the part of all the groups and all the senators who have spoken and the full agreement of all on the desire to reform the perfect bicameralism, I wondered why the current President of the Council absolutely does not want to achieve a shared solution, which could even have two-thirds of the votes in Parliament and also avoid the referendum. I found the answer, promptly suggested to me by a very dear person, who invited me to evaluate the history of a phenomenon. A person who lives in the cult of his own self and the whole world, as a result, must rotate around him - naturally and preferably in the shadows - establishes many relationships with others, but they are all short and superficial. He uses people to confirm his seductiveness, then gets rid of it when they've run out of their function. He thinks he's allowed anything. It does not impose limits or bans on personal affirmation. He follows the rhythm of his needs; he has no respect for the point of view of others. He is self - centered; he makes promises that he hardly ever keeps; he feeds hopes that he disintegrates regularly. When he perceives that he is in difficulty, he reacts to the other by devalue or blaming him, because he perceives him as disabling or intent on hindering the achievement of his objectives. Did you recognize anyone? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It seems to me the unequivocal picture of our President-in-Office's action, and this way of acting goes under an acronym, DNP, i.e. narcissistic personality disorder. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now, I ask myself: is this a healthy way to deal with the reforms of our country's constitutional architrave? This is then the explanation by which we can justify the "gufi", "frenatori", "greedy" of allowance, "offenses" and "vulgarity" of this thickness. On the other hand, if Mr Boschi or our President-in-Office of the Council, who crossed this House with great superficiality and little respect, had had the opportunity to show respect, not for the jungle of senators as we are now, but at least for the history of this House, perhaps, looking up, they could have seen a phrase that reads: By popular suffrage as the garrison of public liberties. Madam Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in these words contained in that plaque is the full summary of our Constitution and I would like them to be a warning also to the President of the Senate, whom I too helped to elect and remember the day when he reminded us of the four virtues represented on the House's veil: justice, law, fortitude and concord. I would like to see your role as a guarantee and not this model Pontio Pilate, which does not summon the control bodies to avoid disturbing the operator and which gives us eight more hours to table the amendments instead of forty-eight hours, which is the delay with which the text has been delivered. The President of the Senate here is the landlord and the landlord should react if someone wants to destroy that house, because if they do not, it is supported by that terrible argument that the public thing is nobody's and therefore we do not care to defend it. I do not care if others who have been here before us have demerited; I believe instead that this is one of the most important houses of the Italians [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buemi),]] I'll try, along with the friends who want it and as long as I have the chance, to defend it. I will try to defend it from lies and lies first of all, two of which go under the name of stability and governability, these two puppets that are increasingly agitated and that are smuggled as altars to which some sacrifice must be made. Let's liquidate them immediately then: Themistocle Martines, distinguished constitutionalist on whose books the best constitutional intelligence of our country was formed, a few months before dying, in a debate in Bologna in which we talked about constitutional reforms, as is done for a long time in our country (but there was no complicit silence that is felt in these days of early summer), said: I defend this Constitution because it is all the more valid and current. It is not true that the Constitution did not work and it is not true that it must be amended because it does not allow stability of government. This stability in Italy is not there and there has not been because the system of parties has not allowed it and then it is the system of parties that, if anything, must be modified, not the Constitution itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem of governability, then, is a fact that concerns majorities: it can only be that in order to ensure governability, spaces of freedom are removed from oppositions, because the Constitution serves above all to guarantee the freedoms of all. But let us come to the work which the Commission has diligently carried out and which I thank, especially for the effort made in trying to make a project that is completely unbelievable credible. If both the Renzi-Boschi bill and the draft electoral law called Italicum were approved, we would have as a result - as a result of the different composition of the two chambers, the considerable diversity of powers and the different source of legitimacy (popular one, indirect the other) - a monocameralism, dominated by the PD and or by the existing coalition of parties. But what interests us most is that it would be devoid of counterpowers. Thanks to Italicum, in fact, the current 26-senator majority coalition would be sufficient, in addition to the 340 Members deriving from Italicum, because, after the third ballot - now the ballots in question we have brought to nine, but little counts - it can have a sufficient relative majority (366 parliamentarians) to elect also the President of the Republic. Given the political majorities currently existing in the Regional Councils, even simpler should be, for the majority of the Government if not for the PD alone, to succeed in electing all five constitutional judges, since the future Article 135 does not provide, unlike the current one, that they are elected by the Parliament in common sitting, so that the relative majority for their election both to the House (three) and to the Senate (two). The Chamber would also be the exclusive holder of the relationship of trust with the Government and the almost exclusive holder of the legislative function, while the Senate would participate, in addition to the approval of the constitutional laws - as already provided for in the original text - to the approval of the laws of implementation in the matter of popular referendum, to the approval of the only laws of authorization of the treaties relative to the participation of Italy in the European Union, of the laws that give implementation to the state legislation in the matter of electoral and of eligibility. For the rest, the legislative functions that the new article 70 assigns to the Senate are more illusory than effective, because the amendments approved by the Senate to the laws approved by the Chamber, in addition to being subject to temporal conditions, are still surpassable by the House's vote against. Such a concentration of powers within a single organ - and I would like to say to one person - is unthinkable in a liberal democracy: a form of State which, as such, presupposes the necessary existence of counter-powers - as President Napolitano himself said in his speech for the 60th anniversary of the Constitution, taking the distance from the French semi-presidentialism, one of the most important features of which is the so-called blocked vote, which is highly criticized by the other side - was nevertheless provided for by the Renzi-Boschi constitutional bill. The concentration of power in favour of the Chamber of Deputies and the majority coalition is a conscious choice of the Renzi-Boschi bill. This is demonstrated by the repeated refusal of the President of the Council to consider the proposal to reduce by 350 the total number of parliamentarians - initially advertised by our President of the Council - but equally distributing this reduction between the Chamber and the Senate, but confirming the electivity of the latter. Renzi, on the other hand, opposed not only the reduction of Members, but - as it seems from recent speeches - also the second-degree election of senators, resulting from the Finocchiaro-Calderoli amendment. The solution put forward by the President-in-Office of the Council is, in fact, not to change the bicameralism of equality - generally shared theses - but the one explicitly underlined in recent days: to cancel the role of the Senate as a counter-power: to which objective the limited effective participation in the legislative function - just slightly improved in the Commission - and the lack of popular legitimacy converge. In fact, it is not possible to speak of the popular legitimacy of the Senate in the light not only of the initial proposal, which provided for the regional senators-advisors, but also of the so-called second-degree election. Therefore, at present, it is reasonable to acknowledge to future senators the sole insincability of the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties and not even personal immunity. In my view, bicameralism, even if not equal, deserves instead to be preserved: first, because the alleged lengths of the legislative process are denied by statistics conducted in time not suspiciously by the offices of the Senate of the Republic with reference to the sixteenth legislature. Secondly, because of the usefulness, if not even the necessity of the so-called shuttle, Renzi himself could be called to testify, having taken advantage of it several times. It is in fact - as pointed out by Gustavo Zagrebelsky - that if the shuttle sometimes becomes necessary to repair its own mistakes, at other times, as recently happened to the Renzi Government, a given bill was approved in order to lighten the political tension, in the shared assumption that then the whole would be discussed again. Well, we must ask ourselves: in the absence of the second reading, what would happen in the event of error or rethinking? Will a new bill be re-established to insert the changes? And is this alternative cost-effective from the point of view of efficiency? Thirdly, the Senate should not be reduced to the Chamber of Territorial Autonomies, which is greatly denied by the fact that it would participate in the approval of all possible amendments to the Constitutional Charter and not only those relating to Title V, Part II. Developing a thesis proposed by Massimo Luciani, it could in fact be envisaged that the legislative function should be exercised collectively by the two Chambers, at least with reference to data types of law: in addition to constitutional laws and constitutional revision law, the laws of amnesty and of indult, the laws provided for in Article 81, paragraph 6, of the Constitution, the laws of authorization of all international treaties and not only those relating to the European Union, the resolutions of the state of war or situations comparable to it (whether or not such acts have the form of law), the laws of delegation in matters falling within the competence of the Senate and, finally, the laws of conversion of decree-laws, this being a real deterrent to the temptation of the abuse of the decree-law to which the Renzi Government itself, despite the good intentions referred to in the amendment of Article 77, has repeatedly yielded. These assessments, so methodically detailed, are not mine, but by Professor Alessandro Pace, illustrious constitutionalist, and are widely shared by most Italian constitutionalists: all voices perfectly silenced during this period. To these considerations, which I entirely agree with, I do not think it is superfluous to add a consideration which, in my opinion, should have been upstream of all the arguments. I think it is well known to everyone that the Constitutional Court, in a sentence, declared the Porcellum unconstitutional in relation to blocked lists and the majority prize. It follows from this judgment that this Parliament has a formal, but not substantial, legitimacy. Mr Corsini reminded us of this in a very exemplary way yesterday. I ask myself, then, and I ask you, does it seem normal for a majority built on unconstitutional rules to reform or to want to reform the fundamental law of our State? With good peace of comfort received by President Finocchiaro in the re-reading of the acts of the Constituent, this seems to me such a twist that it would find it difficult to be accepted even in those democratic countries of Korea. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, Madam President, I return - as should be done in this House - to the lies and lies that are the thread of this work. The President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gives us a glimpse of incomparable rhetoric when he says in his report...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u32	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u33	IN MAY (PI). I quote: We felt the need to respond to the demand for instruments of direct democracy, which so significantly rises from the country, and also to the positive demand for control and verification of the action of powers, beginning with that of the Government. == [[Applause from the M5S Group]] FINDING, rapporteur. That's right. IN MAY (PI). Lies and lies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Di Maggio. It really ends and I would also ask you to be at least respectful of the people in this House. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] Senator Candiani, calm down, please. IN MAY (PI). I am concluding, President: it is precisely against this arrogant brazenness that we will have to resist, so that, as Salvador Allende said, this may constitute a lesson in the ignominious history of those who have the strength but not the reason. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u34	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u35	Madam President, many people have spoken before me and many others will speak later. Much has already been said about this bill: the disturbing aspects of the institutional structure that is thus drawn have been highlighted, the inconsistencies and uncontrollable implications have been illustrated (perhaps, to see, subtly architected) and announced that if - and I say confidently - this project will go on disconcerting the whole country for long years to come. What I would like to do now is retrace some of the many paradoxical aspects that we incredibly face. We are moving on two different planes: on the one hand, the plan of explanation and unveiling of what this bill does not actually face, or faces badly (the problems, the congruencies, the contradictions it creates), on the other - as it was pointed out earlier - we have to face the plan of lies, of a reality that is mystified. The first aspect is the most significant. We are faced with a President-in-Office of the Council who has proposed himself to his people as the man of change, of operation, of the ability to make cross-cutting decisions without taboos, without ideological rigidities. In fact, instead, he is following a path drawn by many before him instead of facing the real problems of the country, such as unemployment, a poverty that is no longer satisfied with the weakest sections of the population but is devouring the middle class and seriously affecting the possibility of going back up the slope. Instead of finding a concrete response to the thirst for rights and the future that afflicts the younger generations (and now, unfortunately, also those no longer young) in search of new forms of participation and a more real and close representation, instead of restoring to our country dignity and hope founded not on announcements, but on actions, choices, discontinuities, instead of doing all this, which supposedly expected from him that large part of the population so often flagdierata that has remained among those who heroically decided to go once again to vote, decided that the Constitution as it is not good, unjustly accrediting the concept for which, if things in our Italy do not work is not the fault of the people, but of the Charter on which the strong human project of our Republic is based and that is reduced and trivialized in a mechanism. Above all, the President-in-Office of the Council has given himself the right to intervene as a Constituent, he who has neither the titles nor the role of the Constituent, and who is far from being able to achieve what he declares and who punctually bounce around us without, I am not saying, having the benefit of it, but, in truth, not even a complete concentration of the content. A second myth to debunk. Today we are debating a bill that is passed on as the reform of the Senate removing citizens from the real content. Let us then say loudly what information does not mean. We are not doing the reform of the Senate, we are radically changing the legislative process and we are doing so in the knowledge that the other side of the coin is the electoral law through which an overwhelming majority will be built in the surviving Chamber, not representative of the popular vote, in spite of the pronunciation of the Constitutional Court; a Chamber made of nominations in contempt for the right of each elector to choose in the ballot boxes who enjoys his confidence most, whose activity we see here carefully regulated by times that determine the certainty of the legislative procedure only for the Government, which transforms the Constitutional Charter into a super-regulation that constitutionalizes the government process, while the rights of minorities do not enjoy the same privilege and the rapporteurs have been entrusted to the Regulations. As were entrusted to the Regulations the time for discussion of the popular initiative bill, so, however, the number of signatures needed for the presentation has been so shamefully increased. Why this diversity of treatment? Why, when one has come to touch the distance between citizens and representatives, instead of making a serious reflection on the party structure (it had to be the one to guarantee this representation and it does not succeed), does one want to break the increasingly subtle and fragile link between voters and elected? Another myth to be debunked: perfect bicameralism causes delays and inefficiency. We who are in here know that this is not the case; we know that, where the debate on draft laws is being developed in the Commissions, then approval in this House has a rapid course. We have seen this over and over again, precisely because a regulatory intervention, organic and negotiated, collects greater consensus and has the merit of being structured and more complete than what is proposed to us with the decree of urgency, of which the most serious aspect, to see, is not the omnibus mode, but - rather - the bus mode: when a decree-law passes, everyone struggles to make us rise their demands, convinced that at least that bus will arrive at the end of the race. Of course, it can happen that the race ends in a dead track and that the implementing decrees are not prepared. Another paradox: the government takes on a legislative and constituent function that would not be its responsibility and is not able to fulfil the executive function that - on the contrary - would be its own. I do not want to say that the activity of the two Chambers could not be improved, but it would be correct, honest, wise and prudent for the Chambers themselves to update and correct their Regulations (reparting more rationally the times of the work of the House and of the Commission and using more the power to meet in the drafting and deliberating) rather than the intervention, of imperium, of a subject not entitled to impose a transformation of the Constitution. The efficiency in the production of laws, in a country that has too many, is not the quantity or the speed with which they are promulgated - the laws are not measured by Persian pertic - but the possibility that they reflect the real needs, that they have matured in a democratic process and destined to last and to give continuity to the action of a government that of these should give a concrete translation. These are the pillars of our democracy: a separate legislative power and executive power. So, instead, we think of solving the problems by giving in in fact, to those who should have only executive power, even a very large and guaranteed legislative power, skipping equally the problem of constitutionality of decree-laws as to urgency and homogeneity of matter and overcoming the principle of this division of powers. Other deception: saving. We are reforming the Constitution; we are not eliminating the Senate. It has been pointed out several times in this House, in the last few hours, that this saving is yet another empty one which proclaims and, in fact, who the flagman does not even feel obliged to quantify it, while he feels free to complain about the alleged link between hostility to this bill and the will to preserve money and privileges, doing a serious wrong to himself - who represents a piece of the institutions earns nothing - and mortifying the other parts of the system. The insuffering of dissent - I have learned this well - reveals only the inability to move in a democratic dimension: a fragility that leads to self-referentiality, then to authoritarianism and - then - to the loss of credibility. All this has nothing to do with true politics; nothing to do with the service that everyone here is called to carry out, not for himself and not for the hic et nunc, but for a wider community to which he is obliged to guarantee a future of democracy and representativeness, and to all this sooner or later he will be called to respond: history has its own times, but his judgment arrives on time; everyone will respond. In the meantime it is not true that we are abolishing the Senate: we are transforming it into a genetic mutation whose operation will be strongly conditioned both by the fact that it will be an additional commitment for subjects in charge of the original elections to carry out other functions, whose cost (and there will be a cost, if nothing else for the reimbursement of missions in Rome, this is obvious) we still do not know who will be supported, both by the fact that a permanent Assembly will be created with constant renewal, in which continuity will be the privilege of those five senators appointed for merits of Homeland, who will see alternate the various senators in relation to the duration of the Regional Councils: a five percent will have continuity, the others will not. A continuity of regional councils, however, more and more frequently put to the test by the judiciary (see the situation of my region, only the last, in order of time, to be involved in an early dissolution). This House should therefore be able to coordinate very closely with the work of the other House, which has already been set in check by the preferential lanes of the Commission's legislative activity, but which will always be able to overcome it by means of the enhanced procedure. A Parliament which under these conditions would be called upon to play a role of guarantee and greater representation of the territories. Perhaps at this point I am the one who does not understand the concept of guarantee, but I am sure that I have a clear representation, and on the matter of representation I come to a central issue: the direct eligibility of senators. Gentlemen of the Government, I repeat what I have already said in the Commission in the presence of one of you: all in all, I am convinced - and the recent polls also give me reason - that the Italians would even prefer the elimination of the Senate rather than losing the chance to elect their representatives. In place of the clarity and simplicity of which it seems that this country needs so much and is evoked in words, giving reassurance for a Pavlovian effect, Italian citizens could find themselves a hybrid that is unpublished and unable to function; a typical Italian situation: to solve the problems they create more; to resolve a State-Regions Conference that does not work, instead of going surgically to identify the root causes of the objective difficulty we have in this country to harmonize central government and government of the territories, we entrust ourselves to the executive of the territories - as my colleague Crimi said, we do not hide the reality: it is from the local executives that will be selected in fact the new senators - a pseudo-legislative power and with a pseudo-reform we go to create an expensive bureaucratic machine made of conferences, committees, and bodies under government in a great confusion of attributions and responsibilities: in poor words, a messy. If the real connection between the electoral body and legislative activity, which has nothing to do with this proposal that is being submitted to us in recent days, were at the centre of interest, there would be ways of opening a serious channel of intercourse with citizens, through real and productive consultations (the referendums have been discussed) and not only in referendums but through continuous consultations, not on the front; consultations in which those who offer their contribution can see a real elaboration of it. The new technologies are much more than tools to chirp emotions of the moment or inconsistent flashes of a media performance. Just this Senate has produced important documents on the use of civic media; just this Senate is at the forefront of the elaboration of shared standards of the produced documentation. Once again superficiality and arrogance have the best on experience and competence and on superficiality and arrogance I would like to dedicate this passage of my speech. I have seen a large part of the general discussion that took place in the first Commission, on the basis of which the rapporteurs then chose the text on which they had to work. The same situation has also been reflected in this House. It is necessary for the citizens to know that, of all the many interventions, we count on the fingers of one hand those who have praised the government bill, that - exactly as happened in these hours - has been punctually and exhaustively criticized by those who much better than me has passed to the sieve all the passages and has evidenced the criticalities. Despite this, the rapporteurs opted for the text which the PD Zanda's leader in a Commission intervention on 23 April expressly invited them to choose, on the grounds that an extension of the debate could have accentuated rather than narrowed the gap between the political forces. Senator Zanda also stressed the importance of constitutional reform in terms of the country's economic development and called for tight times. There is no point in being told in this House that it is not true that the times are tight; I am, exactly as the PD's Parent Company wishes. His wish has been satisfied and the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli, have already illustrated yesterday the speeches they have proposed, but they have not healed precisely those points, those substantial passages that today divide not only the political forces among themselves but also within them. In the meantime, we have been spectators of forcing in the times and in the procedures for carrying out the work; on the same day - I remember because my resignation was discussed that day - we witnessed the proclamation of the value of Article 67 and its denial (when the composition of the 1st Commission was adapted to the need not to disturb the chosen line through agreements made outside these classrooms). What is this arm wrestling? Meanwhile, in the name of the alleged correlation between reform of the Constitution and economic development, we are in a hurry to push forward this bill, while the anti-corruption bill lies, although we know very well that the cancer that afflicts our productive system is a widespread corruption that paralyzes competition, discourages investment and mortifies merit; a corruption that fills the pages of the newspapers, which confirms the distrust of citizens in the institutions and even more in the possibility that the res public is more manageable; that a public res exists and that it is not a res alicuius or nullius. Corruption produces considerable damage, this is quantified, not as the savings resulting from the reform of the legislative process improperly and blatantly made known as Senate reform. I have been told: you who have entered here to renew, have proved to be conservatives hostile to change. This is a wrong and also instrumental approach because renewal is done starting from a punctual diagnosis of what is wrong; it is done in compliance with what is a constituent element of the very meaning of our Republic. Then I would like to read a passage of the many times quoted Calamandrei: And then you understand from this that our Constitution is part of a reality, but only part of it is a reality. In part, it is still a programme, an ideal, a hope, a commitment to work. How much work you have to do! How much work is in front of you! - and I address you, Lords of the Government - "It has been rightly said that constitutions are also polemics, that in the articles of constitutions there is always, even if disguised by the cold formulation of the dispositions, a polemic. This controversy is usually a polemic against the past, against the recent past, against the fallen regime from which the new regime came out. If you read the part of the Constitution that refers to civil political relations, to the rights of freedom, you will constantly feel the controversy against what was the situation before the Republic, when all these freedoms, which today are listed and solemnly reaffirmed, were systematically disowned. So, controversy in the part of human rights and the citizen against the past. But there is a part of our Constitution that is a polemic against the present, against the present society. Because when Article 3 tells you: "It is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person" he acknowledges that these obstacles are in fact there today and that they must be removed. It gives a judgment, the Constitution, a polemic judgment, a negative judgment against the current social order, which must be modified through this instrument of legality, of gradual transformation, which the Constitution has made available to Italian citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). But it is not a Constitution that has set a firm point, it is a Constitution that opens the way to the future. And so, thanking Minister Boschi, who rewards me with his arrival in this Chamber of the Senate, I repeat once again: everyone plays his part. Our Constitutional Charter is open, it gives us guarantees and we, these guarantees, want to maintain them and we will do everything we can to maintain them. The Government, according to what is the task established by the Constitution, to do its part as Executive and remove those obstacles that today prevent the realization of the best part of our Italian Republic. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u36	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u37	Madam President, in yesterday's speech Senator Crimi strongly criticized this reform using the same words that Senator Zanda had reserved for the reform of the Berlusconi government in 2005. A reform that Senator Crimi himself, his goodness, called better than the one we are debating in the Senate today. A reform strongly criticized at the time and, alas, felled for the initiative of a conservative and reactionary Democratic Party, probably blinded by hatred, but a reform that already at that time showed the need on the part of the center-right to proceed to the modernization of the institutions of this country, but in a more complete way than what is being done with this reform, and it is no coincidence that in the reform of 2005 the powers of the President of the Republic, those of the President of the Council and anything else were touched upon. This is the reason why Forza Italia will maintain the Nazarene pact: because we finally manage to compete and contribute to the re-modernization of the country's institutional structure. We do this not, as some say, because we are hypnotized by President Renzi, but because we note that he, with his initiative, finally managed to get the Democratic Party and the Left out of the conservative narcolexis in general. In yesterday's speech, Senator Calderoli, with a very punctual exhibition, represented the failure of the Government to the entire Assembly when, with punctuality and clarity, he explained to everyone how different is the reform that we are discussing today compared to the draft law that had been presented by the Executive. This points to another circumstance: that President Renzi is probably right when he says: forward with reforms that are either "like" or "not," with a small correction: "like it or not" in Parliament. I know that around this reform there are many controversy and fibrillations that probably also concern the internal life of individual parties, but I think it is undeniable that in this reform there are absolutely positive sides, sides that inevitably all of us, if words are consequential to ideas, can only share. I am referring to overcoming the bicameralism of equality, to the exit of the Senate from the mechanism of trust, to the abolition also in Constitution of the Provinces (even if President Calderoli is right when he expresses doubts with reference to article 39, paragraph 4, that is to say the possibility of a recovery of the Provinces through the concept of a vast area). I am referring to the abolition of the CNEL, the overcoming of legislation or shared competence and also - it is a detail but not a small matter - the inclusion of standard costs in the Constitution. There are positive aspects to this reform. Could it have been better? Of course I do. It was possible to do better, in a more complete way and to avoid certain contradictions. To do this, it was necessary to conform to the slow festina. With this expression I am not referring to a particular type of ice cream, used especially in the city of Florence, but to the famous motto of Augusto, which is - alas - represented very clearly by a sail mounted on a turtle that represented the emblem of Cosimo I de' Medici, whose representations are present in large numbers in the Salone dei Cinquecento and throughout Palazzo Vecchio. It is therefore a concept that should have been known, as well as dear, to the President-in-Office of the Council: to act decisively, to act quickly, but with caution. This is the concept of the sail explained and this is the concept of the turtle. It could have been better. In my opinion, we could do better in two ways: an exquisitely technical, albeit orderly, and one at the more general level of democracy. There are some details in this constitutional reform that are objectively perplexed. I wonder, for example, why the age of senators has not been identified, so that this consultative chamber or co-protagonist in certain legislative procedures can be composed of people who are 18 years old. I have nothing against 18 years of age, but I do not understand why we need 25 to be Members. Probably a certain contemperation of this situation will have to be there. I cannot understand the reason why they should be two per Region, except then an incredible proportional division (of which I will speak later), senators by Region: it is a form of monkeying of the American Senate, in a system indeed quite different from it. I do not understand why the concept of proportionalisation should be recovered to the population, just as I do not really understand why two constitutional judges should be elected by the Senate and not by Parliament in a joint sitting. I am not interested - and I say this quite frankly - in the calculations and interests of individual shops. We are not making a law that can be changed from here to a year or two years: we have the presumption, we have the ambition to change our Constitution. In changing our Constitution, the focus must be on the country's interest and not on the interests of the individual political group. Beyond these details, I believe that the fundamental problem that this reform poses is represented, not only and not so much by the way in which senators are elected, but also by the persistence of immunity with regard to this type of election. Yesterday I listened to several speeches: we cannot but start from the fact that the Senate represents the territorial institutions. If it represents the territorial institutions and not the territories, it is clear that the election, not being a political chamber, can only be indirect and brought to the head of those representing those local institutions and that it is parliamentarians, precisely through the election, to indicate its representatives to the Senate. But if this is true and can be a correct justification for an indirect election, someone has to explain to me the reason why then you try to recover, through proportionalization to the population of a region. If you do not represent the territories, if you do not represent the population of those territories - so much so that you imagine an indirect election - you really do not understand the reason why there should be a different representation of the individual territorial institutions. It may be objected, for example, that the weight of Lombardy is different from that of Molise, but it is certainly not possible to object that the institutional weight of one Region is not exactly equal to that of another. I know that in the United States of America each state, many of which are much larger than Italy, brings only two representatives to the American Senate. Yesterday President Finocchiaro said that we found a system halfway between the American system and the German system, but I have the perplexity that, in some way, we recover some segment of a foreign system without recovering the whole system, because perhaps we forget that in the American system, in addition to the two senators per State, it is also expected that the President will be directly elected by the people. So, in my opinion, the problem is not - as some say - the type of election of the senators, if the Senate remains as representative of the local institutions and not of the territories, but the problem, Minister, is whether this Senate you have imagined is capable of working. In fact, I wonder how a Senate that is forced to work at a very urgent time, as is apparent from the wording of Article 70 of the Constitution in the text proposed by the Commission, namely essentially a Senate that must decide within ten days whether to recall a bill, can make changes within thirty days, so that the House of Deputies, in the next twenty days, can decide definitively. I am well aware that the Commissions can be reduced - perhaps the 1st Commission and the 2nd Commission will come together - but there will be 100 senators. This means that the work produced by the House of Deputies will fall back here and if the Senate is to work, if it does not have to be a useless ordinamental harp, the system you have devised is not good. In passing, I wonder how it is possible, for example, for regional councillors to be senators, but they cannot be Members. Yet they both participate as protagonists in the legislative process, in the constitutional revision, in the part pertaining to the Regions and in the part of ratification of the European Treaties, in accordance with the Lisbon Convention. This seems to me to be a profound contradiction, but the most serious contradiction, in my opinion, for the system you have imagined (even though you could have walked the Austrian system) is what it derives in terms of immunity. Beyond any more or less demagogic speech - I do not want to stand here and remember what parliamentary immunity is - whether immunity must remain as a screen compared to a possible persecutory aggression by the judiciary - because this is the history and genesis of parliamentary immunity - I think there is a great problem and a great difficulty. I am referring essentially to the possibility of using immunity to protect the role of senator for what is done as mayor or regional councillor. We cannot even imagine an intermittent immunity, nor - it must be clear to everyone - to remove immunity from the Senate in order to try to overcome the problem that arises from the dual role, perhaps by removing it from the Members; this, if you like, can also be done, but because castes are everywhere, then one must imagine a system that goes to abolish guarantees - or privileges, if anyone likes to call them that - for all the castes that walk in this country. These are technical problems: I think we still have the possibility - perhaps a little slower and a little less festive - to deepen, reflect and try to correct those that seem to me crooked. Having said all this, I would now like to make a completely different reasoning: do you think that this reform gives Italy a balanced system, that - not today, but in the future - eliminates any possible risk of authoritarianism? Remove the Senate, but leave absolutely intact the institutional architecture provided by our Constitution, creating substantially an imbalance that you cannot offset by changing other parts of the institutional scheme. Indeed, it is clear that do not touch the powers of the President of the Council, nor those of the Presidency of the Republic, and that is why, regardless of the substance, the 2005 reform was better, because it was more complete. Do you not realize that this system, even because of the consequences that may arise from a highly majority electoral law, is able to concentrate in the hands of a single person a series of powers, what are those of the Government or of the only Chamber, evidently expressive of the same majority that supports it? And in the election of the President of the Republic, in which after the eighth ballot you go by absolute majority? Do we have to wait for eight scrutins to do the play to the end, knowing that the 100 senators will have no weight compared to the 630 Members? Not to mention the appointment of the superior advisers of the judiciary or judges of the Constitutional Court. What about the nomination of the same senators? Yesterday, that colleague who raised this point in his speech, who is also well aware of Senator De Siano, had long been in a Regional Council: do you really think that when you go to vote for the representatives of the Regional Council, the party will not say who should go to the Senate? All this imbalance and this risky situation are then grafted on at a time when the intermediate levels, although provided for in our Constitution - such as the union and the parties - show their rope to the full. The intermediate levels served social mediation and their role was and still is fully guaranteed by the Constitution, but the parties are now consumed by an absolutely leading policy, that of the strong man, of the man of providence, of the last hope. In a system of this kind, with the abolition of public funding to parties - because of an intervention, in some ways, certainly right and certainly necessary, lords of the 5 Star Movement, but also, excuse me, for some other demagogically imprudent verses - the creation of powerful lobby parties, which also exist in this country... SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at that. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, you're very funny! As I said, we allow the creation of powerful lobby parties, which also exist in this country and which for about fifteen years Parliament has refused to regulate and regulate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish right away, Madam President. I believe that there is a real risk of an authoritarian drift; I do not consider it to be the replacement of several senators in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I am certainly concerned by those who imagine that any dissent should be criminalised. Not sharing a part of the reform is interpreted as not wanting to do the reform, until - I apologise - the extreme vulgarity to say that we do not want the reform because we do not want to lose the compensation. All this in a country where the media doesn't seem particularly neutral. I believe that there is still a need to reflect on this reform, trying to send the House a text that is as complete as possible. As far as we are concerned, we will do exactly what we have undertaken to do with President Berlusconi in the so-called Nazarene Pact, even with the bitterness of the certainty that we could do better. Senator Calderoli, allow me to say in Italian what you say in Bergamo. She says that in Bergamo rather than nothing is better. Allow me to say that, when we talk about the Constitution, nothing is probably better than the worst and that, probably, not considering the game closed with the first reading is better. In the same way, probably, it is better to reflect in the following to make the reform more harmonious; to act with speed, festine, it is good thing, but to act with prudence, slow, perhaps it is better. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u38	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u39	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor with great respect, but also with great bitterness. I have much respect for the immense work that has been done in recent months by all political parties, the Commission, the President and the rapporteurs lately. However, I also have great bitterness, because I believe that many of the rules contained in the text that came out of the Commission, not only do not meet the expectations that we all have at the moment, that the country has and that the President of the Council himself has stood and has urged, but perhaps, in some cases, they even risk going in a direction different from the one desired. It is in a spirit of great humility, but also constructive, that I want to put forward some questions with regard to the changes to Title V of Part II of the Constitution. I will only dwell on Title V for a number of reasons, but above all because it is the Cinderella of this constitutional reform. We have dealt with a lot of other issues, while Title V - I would just like to say because it comes after the other articles of the reform, but perhaps not only for this - has been forgotten, and it was also difficult to raise some reflections, just because often everyone had focused on the reform of the Senate and Parliament. Yet I believe that Title V deserves much more attention, because, while it is true that in the other aspects that are the subject of attention in this reform, very important principles are taken into consideration, such as freedom of thought and the rights of minorities (things we have talked a lot about these days), Title V establishes who does what to allow citizens to have an orderly life, to receive the services they need in their daily lives. Then, the division of competences between the different levels of government and the allocation of resources supporting the competences that must be exercised is not a matter of constitutional architecture of little importance, but it is fundamental to know who has the responsibility (autonomy and responsibility) to carry out some functions those that affect citizens daily, such as health, education, work, civil servants and so on. I think that the approach by which we must deal with the reform of Title V - which is limited only to that - should be free of all ideology and that we should avoid entering into the conflict between more or less centralism. In fact, centralisation and decentralisation are not an alternative to each other, but must be contemporaneous in a balanced distribution of competences and functions between different levels of government and must be chosen in a balanced way in order to ensure the better functioning of public administration. This is the final goal. The final objective of the reform of Title V cannot be to save money, it cannot be to do it quickly, it cannot be only to reduce litigation. We must have the ultimate aim of understanding how we can contribute to improving the functioning of public administration, with a great balance between centralisation and decentralisation. My fear is that the season ahead is as lame as the one we are probably ending. Let me just say a few minutes about what many of us know very well. What has happened since 2001 until now, indeed for a few years before 2001, when we were talking about reforming the Constitution and Title V of its Part II, up to the present day? The previous reform was also made for understandable reasons, but it certainly did not have the clarity, conciseness and clarity that existed in the previous Constitution. We knew that the 2001 reform would inevitably require a very long, complicated and controversial implementation path at all levels, because it had been a bit hasty compared to what might have been desirable (I don't give judgments, but I simply describe what happened). Well, all this country needs less than to open a new season of major constitutional changes of Title V that are not sufficiently clear, that are not able to be implemented quickly and clearly and above all that have no uncertain outcomes. Then it is better to leave what is there, at least a few steps ahead we had done so, but certainly there was need of some modification regarding Title V as it is currently in force. For these reasons I try to ask myself what progress we are making, if we are doing so, in relation to that Title V. I am afraid that there are weaknesses on certain issues, which I hope can still be discussed and addressed in this House, partly because I recall that all those who tabled amendments on Title V withdrew them to the House at the invitation of the rapporteurs, because of the problems which unfortunately arose that day from the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, and of which we were all aware. Then you mean that in the Commission it was not possible to give sufficient thought to Title V. I would now like to focus on a few aspects. Firstly, one of the objectives of this reform is to overcome the shared competence. The concurrent competence may certainly have been - but not alone - responsible for the great litigation that has arisen in recent years between the State and the Regions. It wasn't the only cause of litigation, but she may have been responsible for it. Then one goal could have been to overcome it, and so far it seems to me that reasoning is a thread. The problem is how we are overcoming competing competence. The way in which shared competence has emerged from the Commission's examination - and I say this with great respect - seems to me to be a small mess on which we must put our hand. It is a small mess because it introduces itself - the reason why it happened in some way we understood it, but we cannot be victims of wrong paths - a new legal category - I would say it is invented - that it does not exist in the current Constitution and never existed. As far as I am aware, there are two legal categories: one is given by the general rules and the other by the fundamental principles. The Constitutional Court, precisely in order to avoid litigation, on many occasions over the last decade, has spoken to say what the fundamental principles are and what the general rules are. At least progress has been made in this respect. At present, in order to try to meet opposing needs, a new category is introduced, but we do not know what it means, because it is not so clear the concept, even if some amendments try to specify it, but in the end it returns to the concurrent matter (we change our name to things without changing things). I am referring to the general and common provisions which are probably a middle ground between the general rules and the fundamental principles. However, they will not eliminate in the coming years, if this category is not changed, the problems of understanding what it means to resort to the Constitutional Court and avoid disputes, discretionary interpretations and so on. You can't hide behind new names when the problem continues to remain. This is the first important issue that I think risks setting us up in a long and difficult process: long and difficult precisely on important issues that really affect people's lives. Not only that. These general and common provisions are introduced in some cases both on matters covered by the current Constitution, which are the exclusive competence of the State (see environmental protection and ecosystems), and on subjects that were previously part of the concurrent subject. So, we have - it is possible, but let me say that it doesn't seem to be an orderly design - some skills that are depowered and others that are strengthened, some skills from the top go down, while others from the bottom go up. The overall design is difficult to understand, if not in the need to find a mediation: on these issues, however, mediation must be clear and not create further problems. Not only that. On a second point, however, I should like to make a brief comment. There is the problem of differentiated regionalism, which the Government had proposed to abolish, and the Commission has re-introduced with a change to the rule currently contained in the current Constitution. In essence, other forms of autonomy can be attributed to the regions that require it through a specific legislative procedure - the one already provided for in the current Constitution - adding a requirement: in which cases other forms of autonomy can be attributed to the regions, i.e. in case they have a balanced budget. I find this extremely sensitive, and I would like to think about it. If anything, having the accounts in order is a prerequisite, but it is not a sign of responsibility to the citizens in relation to the services and rights that must be guaranteed to the citizens themselves. How many times have we seen that balanced budgets can be obtained simply by avoiding slippery (sometimes implicit, sometimes explicit) recognition of rights to citizens? It cannot be the only prerequisite, because, of course, if we want to include requirements in the Constitution, we will have to write that responsibility lies not only with balanced budgets. Also because this seems inconsistent to me with a philosophy that fortunately is coming out in recent years, according to which what matters is yes the rational use of resources and the commitment not to waste them, but it matters mainly because we use them to do what, and not simply to close the balance. There is another question: we are dealing with a system which, at the decentralised levels and the regions, takes away some responsibilities and assigns them, from the point of view of legislative competence, to the central level, so there are safeguard clauses, in the allocation of tasks the safeguard clauses are rightly provided for. These safeguard clauses go in one direction only, in the sense that the State can intervene on matters of exclusive competence of the Regions when the Regions compromise the achievement of certain objectives. I believe that, precisely in the logic of strengthening the various requirements in a balanced way and of containing them, we should also include a safeguard clause on the contrary, because many of the difficulties we have had in this decade, in implementing the reform of Title V of 2001 and Law No 42 of 2009, are not to be attributed to the subnational levels of the Government, but to the fact that the central level has not done enough what it should have done, that is to learn to play a different role in a system that had decentralised many of the responsibilities. Not only has the central level not done so, but ministerial logics have even spread in the regions, further worsening the issue. Let me give you an example: the essential levels of performance with regard to social policies. Social policies are, in turn, one of the most abandoned sectors of this country, an area in which municipalities and regions do what they feel as a sensitivity to do. Some people do much more, someone else does much less: just think about the kindergartens or other activities that can be carried out. The relationship between those who do more and those who do less makes a hundred times the difference at the municipal level. A centralized standard or arrangement on this is perhaps necessary. The problem is that in recent years the central level, which had exclusive competence to define the essential levels of social policies, has never done so. Then it would also be appropriate to allow that, when the State is inert (not only when it is the Regions that do not carry out their function) and does not carry out its functions, it gives the Region the possibility to intervene; perhaps with yielding rules and inserting all requirements that it is necessary to foresee, but it must be allowed, because, if we really believe in competition, competition must be among all. There is not only one who takes pride in waiting for others to come back to him and achieve the same results. In short, with the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, it is a matter not to be overlooked, as is the subject of the reform of the Senate and Parliament. There is still a lot to do on this, to prevent a season that our country does not need to open again: it does not need to waste time, energy and political efforts for rules that are unclear and complex to implement. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups and the Senators Di Maggio and Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to interpret all the statements I have heard as an explanation of vote, I should say that this reform will not go away. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, I have the feeling that this absolutely and appropriately broad debate, but not addressed to amendments to the text (I hope that the one on the amendments is equally broad and in-depth), is serving many people as a kind of washing machine of conscience and then being able to say: I had said these things, but then we had to vote differently (this is something that - the advance already - will not happen to me). The washing machine of the conscience of a whole series of observations that are absolutely valid and that I would like to examine, as far as possible, on time. It has been said that constitutional reform is legitimately adopted, in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution, and this is true in its form. But, for what little we have studied on university benches and for what much we have learned from the experience gained between these benches, the Constitution, as it has been set up, also has its practical implementation: the so-called Constitution that evolves also through the sensitivity it lends to the times, through the sensitivity of politics. So, if that modifiability had been imagined by the constituent assembly on the basis of an absolutely proportional Parliament, that is, elected with an absolutely proportional system, something should make us reflect on the practicability of such a broad constitutional reform on the basis of an elected Parliament with majority, minority prizes, with the exclusion of the voice of certain political forces, so without even the so-called right of stand. An experience like the one we have experienced through constitutional reforms - not the punctual ones of some articles, but those that have tried to intercept a minimum of overall structure in recent years - should teach us something. For years we have criticized these reforms as the worst, or as not acceptable: from the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution approved by three majority votes in 2001, to the one of 2005 approved and then rejected by the popular referendum. This should have suggested to those who really wanted a strong structural reform of our Constitution in a more modern sense (which is a necessity, for goodness sake, I do not say no) a different path. A road which, given also the time of the legislature, would have been absolutely practicable, a road which many of us - including myself - suggested at the end of the last parliamentary term, namely that together with Parliament a constituent Assembly should be elected on a purely proportional basis to assign a specific and predetermined time (one and a half years, or two years) and composed of a limited number of members. I refuse to think that this country could not express - although of course it had them, being not only the cradle of law but also the cradle of doctrine and homeland of great intellectuals - 100, 150 new constituents who, while the political forces waited for their institutional task (which is to govern), could have hesitated a new complete text of all the so-called weights and counterweights (as they say in constitutional jargon) necessary to hold a completed balance of the new Constitution. That would have been an epochal initiative. While today's initiative appears to be an epochal initiative in the sense of the time we are in, that is, it is affected by the weakness of the politics of the times we are in. The question of the new Senate, which is relative to the important issues that a complete constitutional reform would have to face (I will also say mine on Title V, on which Senator Dirindin intervened), and of direct or indirect election is not secondary, in the sense of having to ask who, until recently, has poured rivers of ink against the double positions or against the nominations and the elections of second degree, as today has changed opinion and enthusiastically starts to vote a second level Senate and also with an obvious presence of double positions. This is not the question: the question is that the Italian political class is recognizing the value of the middle class, the one that represents the territorial institutions and not the territories. Senator Palma was rightly wondering - but giving a solution that, in my opinion, is wrong compared to the question - whether this new Senate should represent the territories or the territorial institutions. I am of the opinion that the new Senate should represent the territories (so, citizens) and not the territorial institutions (so, the middle political class). I would like to remind you that, in history, when the force that conquers the middle political class - vassals, valvassors, those who manage the territory - rises to the level of central power, the dark centuries begin; the worst seasons begin for a nation, or at least for an organized society. What do we say - then - about possible conflicts of interest? You have also been masters here in writing infinitely and pouring rivers of ink on the conflict of interest between the public and the private and you have not even mentioned the possibility of a conflict of public interest on the public that will occur when the Senate, indirectly elected, will have to control who elected it and the activity of who elected it. We're talking control, but what kind of control? Accounting? Then we abolish the Court of Auditors: there will be a Senate that will control its voters, who are regional and municipal administrators. Legitimate control? Very well, we abolish the Council of State, because the Senate will carry out a legitimacy check on the acts of its voters. I'm gonna check on credit? We're starting to get into a slightly more delicate and difficult terrain. Efficiency control? Even more, we enter into a concept of control that lends itself too much to conditioning by those who have appointed the senator and, therefore, to the possibility that this senator can raise exceptions also on the efficiency of the management of regional things. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we feel so delegitified and so unpowerful as a state political class that we must abdicate most of the powers that are traditionally reserved to the elective Parliament to a Parliament appointed by the Regions and, therefore, to the Regions themselves which - I repeat - should be the subject of the control of this new Senate. There have been various reasons, not only by the Premier, or by the proposers, or by the supporters of this bill, but also by the regime press. I will give you a very small illuminating example: savings. By changing the Senate, you save yourself. An authoritative daily newspaper, which supports, and has always supported, strongly the need to save money through the reduction of the costs of politics, ignoring of course the 1,400 regional advisors, but looking only at the members of the Senate, a few days ago made a masterpiece of mathematical error. Of course, journalists are not obliged to be graduates in mathematics, but when he mentioned the 14,000 euros of allowance, all inclusive, that one senator perceives per month, multiplying them by 12 and - then - by the number of senators who would not be re-elected in the next legislature, he came to the figure of half a billion euros, that is 500 million. However, it was not considered that it cited the factors, but - in the end - the result of its multiplication was increased by a zero. In fact, multiplying 14 by 12, we get 168,000, which, multiplied by 315 (i.e. thinking that the whole Senate may not be re-elected), gives the figure of 42,920,000 euros, which is not the half a billion quoted by the daily newspaper. This is to make it clear that the press is following the initiatives of the regime and is also pressing for our consciences to be convinced that they are not even adherent to the mathematical reality of the facts. One of the reasons for this was the speed of the legislative process. Of course, no one looks at what constitutes the real cause of slowness in this country: first of all regional legislation. Think that I come from a region where on July 15, when we are discussing constitutional reform today, the financial law that was to be passed by December 31 last year has not yet been approved. These are those who should elect the new senators, i.e. those who are not even able to balance their budgets after seven months of activity. The other great phenomenon, which is mainly attributable to us, because of the slowness of legislative efficiency are not the laws but the implementing decrees of the laws. Madam Minister, how many implementing decrees of laws voted by this Parliament lie in the ministerial gallows for concerts, for agreements? How many are there and what is the delay in issuing the laws? These are the delays that citizens pay for in their daily activities. The speed of the laws is the subject of parliamentary regulations. Parliamentary regulations allow, where appropriate integrated, to be able to approve the laws in due time. Certainly the proposed times are not appropriate, that is to give to a bill the same term of expiration of a decree-law because otherwise the so-called presuppositions of necessity and urgency, which are the basis of the decree of the Government, fail and therefore surely creates an overlap between norms, in compliance with the Constitution, not absolutely compatible. So, not to be fond of my ideas, but I believe that we are starting a process of reform that is first and foremost fragmentary and strongly influenced by governability. That is why a Constitution is not reformed in its entirety through Parliament, because when we talk about the composition of the Senate, what is the reason why we have to give eight seats to less than one million inhabitants and divide the remaining 87 among others? There is also a reason for voting in this House, for numbers in this House, which would not happen if there were a constituent assembly which was not affected by the need for government and the need to form majorities. Senator Dirindin spoke of a great lost opportunity - and I agree with her - on Title V of the Constitution. Why lost in my judgment? Because, as I mentioned earlier, we have now seen absolutely clearly - the statistics tell us, not only the judicial ones, but also the economic-accountable ones - that the worst political class is that of the Regions (perhaps even the worst bureaucratic class) to which we are handing over the Senate. This is reflected automatically in the enormous rise in public spending, not only through the phenomena of corruption, rightly recalled, but also through the phenomena of waste, inefficiency, the enormous number of intermediate bodies, the participating bodies, the bodies that must do everything and more but outside the apparatus, already absolutely resounding, of regional institutions. It was a good opportunity to rethink it, dear friends of the League that mentioned Miglio, but do not mention its true intellectual product, that of the amalgamation of the Regions and the creation of efficient regions, territorially and socially homogeneous, historically directed to respect for some forms of Government that, surely deprecated by the post-Risorgimento historiography, so deprecable were not. When you quote Professor Miglio, to whom we all owe homage for his intellectual stature, you quote his thought in its entirety. It was therefore an opportunity to put hand to the reorganization of the Regions, knowing very well that the subdivision of the Country into Regions, Provinces and in the 8,200 Municipalities is a subdivision that presided over a concept of central State that had to place its administrative emanations on the territory and had rightly chosen, for that concept, this form. If you really want to activate a modern process and an Italian path to federalism, which was not such in the Risorgimento and, therefore, it is difficult to recover from the point of view of historical orthodoxy, of the genesis of a state, you had to and should insist much more on the concept of macro regions and the subdivision of the national territory in regions merged, not looking instead at the opportunism of having occupied some and not wanting to abandon them. These are the concepts to which we should, in my opinion, inform ourselves in meditating on a complex constitutional reform. Given the timing - sometimes a look at the current situation - we should start talking about the introduction into the Constitution of the concept of limiting the tax burden because we have introduced, and are introducing, elements that go in the opposite direction. We have introduced the budget balance with which we allow the Government to increase taxes in case the budget is not in balance; we introduce the introduction of standard costs into the Constitution - which is wrong, in my opinion, even if promoted by the party to which I belong. So, how can the gap between standard cost and actual cost be bridged in any local administration that does not benefit from the revisiting of economies of scale that can result from a resetting of territorial institutions? By increasing local taxes. It is said in the Constitution. We are also giving constitutional value, as usual, to the circulars of the Ministry of Economy. When a circular issued by the Ministry of Economy will indicate the cost it will be said that it is in compliance with the Constitution. It will no longer be possible to change or it will be difficult for Parliament to deal with the implementation of these famous standard costs, including the competence and technicalities of the Directorates of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Let me make one last mention. Let's avoid heart attacking the Constitution of norms that are not of the Constitution. I have mentioned one example to say that we are giving constitutional status to ministerial decrees because this will happen in practice. We are also setting up electoral laws, albeit on a transitional basis with respect to the Government's original proposal. I am against the electoral laws in the Constitution: it is a further limitation of parliamentary power and it is a further decrease in the value of the Constitutional Charter in its high aspects of regulating the country's life. I believe that this reform needs to be strongly rethought. Personally, I have already said that and I repeat it. I have not washed my conscience today, as perhaps some of my colleagues - I hope not - have thought of voting on the reform anyway. I personally, if this reform remains in this way, will not vote for it. I did not vote for the questions referred for a preliminary ruling because my incurable optimism lets me think that some fundamental changes can be made during the debate by this House, but if this does not happen and, above all, if the debate in this House were to be choked on the amendments compared to what was not the general debate, this reform will certainly not be able to have my vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u43	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, my speech will be focused not only on the analysis of the proposals under discussion, but also on a broader reflection, precisely because I believe that we need to have a more objective view of the issue and then I will explain why. The political historical period we are experiencing is characterized by some signs that we certainly cannot neglect. The collapse of the party system, the overcoming of bipolarism, the fear of loss of power by the control centers, the conflict of programs. And as an answer to all this, what do we have? The abolition of popular sovereignty! Of all these points, I will mention a few. Firstly, without fear of being denied, we must start from the theme of popular representation and therefore from the deep crisis of the model adopted so far, namely the model of the system of political parties; a system which - in the eyes of all - is destined to disappear to give way to new forms of aggregation that are much more capable of responding to the needs of citizens. This model, nineteenth-century style and now outdated, has been manifested for about 40-50 years in its chronic form of enslavement to the strong powers, external to Parliament and therefore antagonists to popular sovereignty. The historical reasons that led to the disaster of the parties were born in the period of economic boom and from the control that the parties themselves carried out in a hegemonic way on the lives of the citizens until today. This point is fundamental, because the way to select the ruling class is closely linked to the form of state that you want. It is clear that at the basis of the traditional method there is a strong contradiction, which sees the political career contrast to a representative and meritorious political system. Another point of reflection for me is the definitive awareness of the Italian vocation not bipolar and not majority. The political dynamism shown by our society over the past two centuries unfortunately has not left any mark in the current political class, which has failed to capitalize on the historical experience gained by creating the prerequisites for a constitutional architecture that is instantly synthesis of ethics and passion of an entire country. In this context, there are the clumsy attempts at reform that we are witnessing these days. I would like to draw your attention to a strange design, because it is not based on appropriate summaries and perspectives, but rather on a final tailstroke, at this point not in order to maintain the status quo but in order to reform the state in an authoritarian sense. I have said that this is a well-founded design, just quote the dossier of the Senate Studies Service, No. 133, which carries out a careful analysis of the bill highlighting gross errors from the outset. In the case of Article 1, which concerns Article 55 of the Constitution: It will be said shortly that the "Senate of the Autonomouss" (not otherwise qualified) represents the "territorial" institutions, but the novel name does not specify, in itself, which "autonomouss " it is. And again: The diction of "Republic" - which currently characterizes the Senate "of the Republic" - already involves pursuant to Article 114 of the Constitution, the Municipalities, [the Provinces], the Metropolitan Cities, the Regions and the State," i.e. the territorial expressions listed in ascending order. And hence the gross lack of constitutional culture that we are manifesting these days. Then we must ask ourselves what it means to implement reforms and what should be the correct path to take to act on the form of State as a synthesis of popular sovereignty, starting, for example, from the reform of the Senate of the Republic. It is clear that the necessary assumption, but not enough to change, is to have analyzed and understood the current model, because it is really emblematic to try to change something that you do not know. It would be a mistake that would expose to easy criticism, such as that of saying that they are only and exclusively electoral ads. That's it! Because today Stefano Rodotà writes: The question we have to ask ourselves is: Renzi and his leadership group have the proper constitutional culture to load the weight of this change? Unfortunately, the harsh judgment, as it is right, leads us to identify these reforms without the necessary presupposition and more signs confirm the fact that the panorama and the scenario of the moment have not been understood; therefore, the reform that will be made will obviously be fallacious in its first application, that is to serve the nation. Then, we must start by analyzing our political-institutional reality, which sees a constitutive algorithm based on a fundamental assumption: the end of the Second World War, the end of Nazism and Fascism, that is, the end of one of the darkest periods of human history. This period was followed by nothing but a dramaticly human and supportive Constitutional Charter. Intentionality or not is not important in an ex post analysis that simply evaluates the effects. Well, the Charter is characterized by an antidote that was the very synthesis of the past years, namely the tangible fragmentation of the Italian institutional power, which would have led to one of the most felt guarantees at that time: never again no man alone in command. From here comes the choice not only of perfect bicameralism, but also of the widespread use of the principle of subsidiarity and territorial division within the structure of the country. In this context, the Senate of the Republic is placed for what it is, that is, the High Chamber, elective, control and leadership of the institutions. It is obvious, but not for everyone, that we need to reason not so much in economic terms (although important, we would miss it!) or propagandistic, but it is necessary to reason in functional terms. If we understand the function of the Senate, we can also decide whether this function serves our country. It is, therefore, the Senate as a chamber of reflection, less technical, but more direction, a political place where should reign what was once defined as wisdom, that property referred to person, who has and reveals, in behavior, in judging and operating, wise discernment, moderation, intellectual and spiritual balance, and a knowledge of things acquired above all through reflection and experience. It is clear that this property must be calibrated on the surrounding world, in order to say that what was true fifty years ago is no longer true, what is valid in a jungle is not valid in a city, what was valid in an almost immutable world is not in a dynamic reality like the one in which not only fathers do not understand their children, but even older brothers are averted to new contexts. Just think, for example, of the current dichotomy between digital natives or digital immigrants, which moves in a less than one generation's time frame. A proper analysis of these aspects could lead brutally to impose, as well as - for example - we of the 5 Star Movement, a higher age limit for Members, who are now 40 years old for us. We did it simply, without any reform. Let me now turn to another fundamental aspect in which the profound crisis of parties comes not only from an ideological point of view, but also from a pragmatic and prospective point of view. The figures show that Parliament has de facto abdicated its legislative function by de facto delegating its legislative power, but by maintaining the sole approval of the government decrees, on the basis of the lying urgent decree. The issue of urgency is obviously superfluous, given the low percentage values of actual government measures. I am thinking about this because other structural problem to be analysed is that of the conflicts between the electoral programme, the legislative programme of the parliamentary groups and the government programme. It is clear that the more than 8,300 draft laws of the 16th legislature and the more than 1,000 draft laws in December 2013 of the Law in progress are only the result of a chaotic political design, without an address, which also thanks to the Regulations of the Chambers assigns individual powers to the detriment of collective powers. It is clear that it would be quite different to have a Parliament composed of parliamentary groups, made up of deputies and senators who legislate not in a personalistic and random way, but in a collective way towards a point of reference, which should be the implementation of the electoral programme in accordance with the needs of the country, especially at times such as these, or rather according to a chronological sequence: at the electoral stage a government program is proposed on which the electoral people indicate confidence by voting and which will then be realized by the legislative action of the Parliament and put into effect by the Government. It seems clear to me that the current scenario is totally different. I have already introduced the subject of amendments to the Regulations of the two Houses. Returning, for example, to the role that the Senate should play, it is clear that a great lack of civic education and therefore a lack of knowledge of the role of the Senate lead to a second Chamber (ours, at this time) strongly technical and amending, while an immediate regulatory change would suffice to remedy the shortcomings of colleagues. So, you could go back to a Senate with limited amending power, but with an accentuated political role of leadership and control. Let me give an example to make this concept even clearer. Let us suppose, for example, a bill introducing a tax for waste disposal services, based on the size of citizens' homes, which does not take into account the virtuousness of their behaviour. It is clear that a Senate aware of its role would reject this design, without even trying to amend it, precisely because it is politically useless. In fact, it's not like that. On the other hand, we must emphasize the same amending power on the part of the Political Chamber. The social and political analysis has led us to redefine, finally, the role of representativeness, such as that of ending an open debate among so-called stakeholders. In this sense, we of the 5 Star Movement have identified in the term "spokesman" precisely the new representative political subject (and therefore, precisely, "spokesman") of a grouping of ideas and solutions much wider. In this respect, we certainly hope that personal institutional costs will be reduced, i.e. those directly attributable to the so-called spokesmen. Among other things, this methodology is already in place in our ranks. In addition to this, a minimal reduction of the spokesmen, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, is conceivable, but without prejudice to the amending and controlling function of the two Chambers. At the same time, I believe that a significant increase in the number of Members, understood not as institutional figures (figure and role already played by the spokesmen), but rather as Members of Parliament, as persons admitted to parliamentary debate and therefore, tends to be citizens, as true stakeholders. This is in the logic that something that concerns everyone must be decided by everyone. The last issue I want to touch on is linked to the conflict of programme and is the issue, not secondary, of the so-called principle of trust, that is, the initial moment by which the President-in-Office of the Council presents his programme of government and on this he receives the confidence of the Chambers. It is clear that going our vision (that of the 5 Star Movement) beyond a narrow system, founded on right and left, therefore on majority and minority, on a non-existent bipolarism or on a tripolarism in fact, it is possible not to consider the act of trusting as the initial moment of the operations. We believe that a modern political force that is free from ties with a nineteenth-century political past should rather be aimed at discussing real and concrete issues, and on them, if ever, converge from time to time, without any confidence in blank, but imposing a demand for constant confidence, theme by topic, topic by topic, problem by problem, solution by solution. From this point of view, the two types of parliamentary confidence, namely the motion of mistrust and the question of trust, are also raised, for example, by pointing out that there are various systems which provide only for the motion of mistrust. This also includes the formal act of giving confidence not directly to the Prime Minister, thus emptying him of a centralized power over his figure, but to the entire Government, returning in this way to the initial input of the constituent fathers of which we spoke before, with the aim of never putting any man alone in command again. For the reasons I have outlined so far, my amending work and my contribution to the debate have been focused on these concepts. I shall now end my speech by addressing the kind Minister, the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, to all my colleagues and also, above all, to the citizens who are following us. Let me now give you some political considerations. You politicians are in fact abdicating your role. You are granting popular sovereignty to an authoritarian and centralizing drift, which can also mean drifting into disarray, miserable or ruined. So, I ask you the following question: do you not notice this or are you complicit in these maneuvers, which are not drifting (the term now passed), but are leading to a real landing place, since the reforms are going to hit the ground? Then I ask you again: why do you allow Renzi to do what the Italians in a referendum in 2006 prevented Berlusconi (Tessera n. 1816 of the Masonic Loggia P2), who asked for a Senate of representation of second degree, as it was written in the plan of democratic rebirth of 1976 by Licio Gelli? Why don't you think that your political class has caused the crisis, the discontent and the rage that they are wandering over this country? Why don't you admit that, being the cause of all this, you cannot be able to solve matters yourself? Do you not know that the whole country has now perceived that this political government has only a political opposition, which is the 5 Star Movement, caste against people, privilege against sacrifice? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You do not want to take away privileges from those who have never made sacrifices, do not give back what is not yours, do not spoil laughs for our statements, both in this House and in the Commissions, but do not notice that your laughter gives us even more determination and strength to send you home. Don't feel your neighbor telling us "Good idea: let's do it," but then remember who you are and reject us every measure, do not feel that we are controlling your work and do not feel our breath on the neck. I tell you then in conclusion that, if Renzi is your answer to the 5 Star Movement, perhaps you did not understand the question. If this law is your scribble of Italy, then I prefer the design of our five-star Italy, because I know it will be democratic, free, honest and beautiful. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u44	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u45	Madam President, I have to say that I agree with the structure of the reform, also because of the tradition and history of the political and institutional work that I have done, and I believe that this is the right time to enter Europe with a great simplification of the State and the Republic in its links. I agree with her, knowing that, of course, it must be closely linked to electoral reform, which I believe will be the inevitable path of different parliamentary readings. So I feel calm in saying that it's time to change to: it's true, it's time to change. We do not take away anything at all, because I believe that the work done by the Commission in the direction of strengthening the functions of the Senate was very important, which was what I had originally raised, since the first meeting with President Renzi. I find that this work has been very considerable, immense and not simple, so I would like to thank President Finocchiaro and President Calderoli. However, I share some concerns expressed by Senator Dirindin and also by other colleagues in the overall debate of this time on the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which I have been dealing with for many years. In my previous life, in fact, interested in culture and school, I had the opportunity to address the importance of Title V and its reform. When the news of Title V was approved, the situation of the country and the public budget were very different from those of today. And as usual, in Italian, we have launched a reform without checking over time the application and objective limits with respect to a relatively recent institution, namely the Regions: there is therefore an inevitable disparity, given the history and the experimentation of their new competences. This reform of Title V, as it appears in the text, seems to me to produce a heterogenesis of the aims, for various reasons. First of all, there are very great contradictions: we transform the Senate of the Republic, in fact, into a Senate of the Regions and the autonomous, therefore with a national value, but at the same time in the articulated we entrust to the Regions of everything and more, and this cannot work. The deletion of the general rules, as defined in the Government's text, is frankly the best, because it clearly defines the point of the country's unity. However, if we put together the rewriting of this part with the competences that are assigned, for example, in the Health Pact, there is a short circuit: I think, in particular, of the issues I am dealing with today, those that concern health protection. Moreover, we do not understand why the rewriting of Article 116 refers to the national protection of cultural goods - and no one agrees more than I do - and we do not talk about health protection, which is essential for a national good. The fact, then, of having included variable autonomy, let us call it that, by virtue of budgetary draws, it only makes the situation worse, because we risk finding ourselves in a dramatic condition. I come from Lombardy and, for the debate that exists in that territory - certainly not for its application, but certainly for the debate - I am aware of what an idea of federalism means. Well, we risk having, not a variable autonomy, but a federalism at different speeds: that is - and here is the heterogenesis of the ends number two - we risk having too great differences between Regions, so we will have Regions that will go forward and Regions that will not be able to go forward, to which the State will have to make up, that will therefore risk having a residual function compared to the stronger Regions. I believe that this, from the point of view of Articles 3 and 32 of the Constitution, is frankly unacceptable. [[Applause from Senator Taverna.]] I think we should get to one speed instead. I think, for example - I have tabled amendments in this direction - that the Senate could also be given a specific role in health protection. You see, Minister, we have lived in an embarrassing situation over the years: 21 different regional health systems, not communicating with each other, which have produced serious inequalities in the quality and quantity of performance. And we cannot think of reforming the State and the Republic, even reviewing the functions of the Chambers, moving the centre of gravity more on the functions of Government rather than on the functions of representation - something on which I am not so opposed - but allowing the Regions to proceed on their own. The regions themselves, moreover, in the Health Pact say quite different, in the sense that the Pact - from what we have read and been told in the Commission, but we will then see it in detail when it is made public - speaks very clearly of the deployment of the autonomous principle, in a framework of interinstitutional cooperation and the composition of the authorities of the territories in the general interest of the country. The Health Pact itself also states the importance of defining general health protection rules. And so, I don't want this country to split up, but we're photographing a division that's about to take place: we're photographing it and I'm very worried about it. I believe that we must remedy this absolutely. You mean don't be a federalist? No, it means to be honest and to say that federalism is something else from a regional self-government that risks being very weak and fragile, also because it is basically based on budgetary draws. What does that mean? Does that mean we're gonna be in the races all the way down? That is what we are then talking about. What does it mean for some regions to have a different speed? It means - as Senator Dirindin and I agree - to intervene on the quality of performance and we know what it means. It means that in the health and social field the races will go down to the maximum and frankly this is not in the spirit of reform, at least from what I have heard and from the general consensus that there is around it. I therefore ask the Minister to review this point, also because there will be a future Senate, but today on the Regions the Parliament wins: today Parliament is sovereign compared to any requests of the Regions, which will have all the time, when the reform will be executive, to understand the difference between territorial systems, autonomous, federalism and a national system of guarantees from which the Senate does not intend to call itself outside. And I find this really to be the most important part. Starting towards the conclusion, if we want the essential levels of assistance to be provided in an appropriate and uniform way, we need other rules, that is to say to return to an idea where national guidelines and general rules are national; after that there will be moments, such as the State-Regions Conference and the new Senate, where there will be a cross between regional and state competences. What I find frankly not appropriate to the level of reform is the idea of variable regionalism, which also knows a little old. In fact, if we sincerely want to make federalism serious, I am ready for this challenge, but this means a federal pact and not that every Region does what it wants, not even in the case of federalism more pushed. Above all, however, it seems to me that we are starting a de facto separation, because we also know well how our country is made, what its history is, what its territories and its problems are. Over the last few months, when we are discussing the reform, we have expressed an opinion as a Health and Health Commission from which I feel bound. I feel that I have to represent this opinion which goes in a slightly different direction from what is being expressed. In particular, the Commission also calls for the state to be given legislative power in terms of general health protection rules. In conclusion, as a corollary to this reasoning, there is also the issue of the supremacy clause. It is true that the State must have the power to intervene, but it is also true that when the State does not intervene it is necessary for the Regions to have this power. This is another element which I would like to include, in a united, united, national framework, which nevertheless takes into account, however, that health is the only right that the Constitution defines as fundamental. Let's be careful not to forget that. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u46	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u49	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the problem of failure to respond to the acts of inspection union; a problem that is becoming difficult to deal with. Personally, I have been asking for requests because of government turnover and, therefore, the delay in conferring powers, but at the moment the number of unanswered questions appears to be unmanageable and, above all, not understandable for the citizens who are directly involved in the issues in question. Just to give an example, as far as my case is concerned, out of 46 oral questions, there were only six answers, with a response rate of 13%. On the other hand, with regard to written questions, out of 38 documents we had only 10 answers and the last one was in January, with a response rate of 26%. I therefore urge the Presidency to do so and call on the Government to intervene in this defiance in the management of the relationship between the Executive and Parliament, in order not to weaken the very legitimacy of the act of the inspection union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-278.ana.u50	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.30 a.m.
