ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins. Pending the determinations of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 4.444 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u7	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on June 10, 1924, Giacomo Matteotti fell for fascist violence, forced into a car on the long-tever Arnaldo da Brescia after his death. The corpse of the young socialist congressman was found only two months later, along Via Flaminia, in Quartarella, in a pit dug into a thick wood. On August 20, the remains were transported by train to Fratta Polesine, its native place, accompanied along the way by a huge popular tribute. Great was the impression that the killing of Matteotti aroused throughout the country for the hellishness of the gesture and for the fact that the same was directly attributable to Mussolini. Almost a century after his death, Giacomo Matteotti not only represents the highest expression and the most famous and remembered victim of a tragic season of our history, but has become a patrimony of all, insofar as his life and death, his ideas, his values and hopes are now part of the common national consciousness. We remember Giacomo Matteotti for his inexhaustible activity as deputy, publicist, lawyer, writer of political texts, intransigent anti-fascist. He joined the Italian Socialist Party for the ideal of generosity and defense of the weakest. In the last glimpse of 1910 he was one of the protagonists of the political life of Rovigo, coming to occupy at the same time the position of mayor of Villamarzana and councilor of several other municipalities of the area. He was among the hardest opponents of the Libyan war, so much so that in the Socialist Party Congress held in Reggio Emilia in 1912 he distanced himself from the social reformist Turatian area, hesitant in condemning the enterprise, and approached the maximalists. The first occasion when the young Matteotti faced Mussolini was at the Socialist Congress in Ancona in 1914, where both presented two distinct motions on the incompatibility of the double inscription to the PSI and to Freemasonry. The positions became even more irreconcilable at the outbreak of the First World War, where Matteotti, a coherent anti-militarist, sided in no uncertain terms against Mussolini's interventionist positions, coming to hope, in the case of Italy's entry into the war, for the popular insurrection. Called to arms, he was assigned to a regiment of country artillery stationed in Verona, but, considered a pervicacious, violent agitator, capable of harming national interests on every occasion, he was interned in English Camp, locality of eastern Sicily. Dismissed in 1919, he took his place in the ranks of the socialist movement and, in the congress held in Bologna in the same year, represented the positions of a coherent reformism, based on the primacy of class trade union organizations, on the party superstructure, on the party's ability to direct economic struggles towards the conquest of socialism. In the general elections of November 1919 he was elected for the first time deputy for the college of Rovigo and Ferrara, and during the red biennium he was constantly engaged to direct the labor struggles and peasants for the renewal of the agricultural pacts and to face the nascent Padano squadrismo. He was present at the first day of the Congress of the PSI of 1921 in Livorno, where it was consumed the division that later gave rise to the Communist Party of Italy; however he left before time the Livorno assise to reach Ferrara, where, following the bloody events of Castello Estense, had been arrested the entire group leader of the socialist federation. Matteotti did not delay to understand the danger that for the workers' organizations represented the nascent fascist movement. However, it tended to explain the affirmation of fascism as a reaction to the important achievements achieved through the great peasant struggles of 1919 and 1920. Fascism was therefore, in his opinion, the violent response of the agrarian bourgeoisie to its own interests damaged by the new agricultural pacts. His frequent and courageous denunciations of squadrist violence made him a popular leader, while at the same time giving him up to the hatred of radicalism and fascist squadrism. On 12 March 1921 he suffered a first serious violence from the fascists of Castelguglielmo. Although banned by the Polish fascist organizations, he took an active part in the May 1921 general election campaign, succeeding in being elected to the Padua-Rovigo college. The Fascist offensive accelerated the internal crisis of the PSI and at the Rome Congress in October 1922 the reformist current broke down and gave life to the United Socialist Party. Matteotti was called to play the role of secretary, as an emerging figure of the reformist wing of the PSI. In his new office he led a struggle on two fronts: outwards against fascism, and inwards against the collaborative tendencies manifested towards the Mussolini Government by some sectors of the PSU. Matteotti considered them as two moments of the same strategy: in fact he was convinced that the more he had managed to highlight the reactionary and anti-worker character of fascism the more difficult it would have been the maneuver of the collaborators of engagement to the Mussolini Ministry. The period from the beginning of 1923 to his tragic death is the most dramatic of Matteotti's political life. The commitment to a tireless political activity that highlighted the irreconcilable antithesis between fascism and democratic forces, the violent and totalitarian character of the fascism of the province, up to the most murky and brutal manifestations, exposed it personally to the predictable reprisals. It was precisely from this extraordinary intellectual honesty that the writing "A year of Fascist domination" (Rome 1924), a pamphlet with which Matteotti intended to highlight the essentially anti-proletarian character of the first measures of the Fascist Government and which put it definitively in contrast with Baldesi, representative of the right-wing member of the General Confederation of Labour, and with Turati himself, who repeatedly rebuked Matteotti for his preconceived "hostility" towards the trade union leader. Its consistency was translated into intransigence towards fascism. Between 1923 and the first months of 1924 his travels abroad became more frequent: last he went to Paris and Berlin to meet some members of German Social Democracy, but after that trip the fascist government withdrew his passport and vain were all his attempts to get him back. Before the new legislature was inaugurated, during the closing period of Parliament, Matteotti resumed to go abroad. Without his passport, he was forced to cross the border illegally. In April 1924 he went to Brussels to participate in the Workers' Party Congress. Between 21 and 22 April he reached England in secret, and in London he had a series of meetings with the leaders of the Labour Party and some members of the Government. On 6 April 1924 the new general elections were held, with the application for the first time of the Acerbo law, approved on 18 November 1923. The bill, presented by the then Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council Giacomo Acerbo, provided to modify the proportionality in force for four years, supplementing it with a majority prize, which would be taken in favour of the most voted party that had exceeded the quorum of 25%, thus winning two thirds of the seats in all the districts. 23 lists participated in the consultations. Mussolini's liston obtained 64.9% of the votes and won the majority prize and 374 seats in Parliament out of 535 available. Among the other lists, the PSU obtained 5.90 percent of the votes and 24 seats. The elections took place in an atmosphere of tension and violence by the fascist teams that this time turned not only to the parties considered always subversive, but also to the people, unleashing the reprobation of the Holy See. Everywhere there were allegations of fraud, particularly as a result of the surprising electoral results. Matteotti returned to Italy on April 30, 1924. The opening of the XXVII legislature, which was particularly difficult for the opposition, was now imminent. Matteotti had been entrusted with the task of explaining the positions of the PSU Parliamentary Group at its meeting on 30 May, in which the verification of the powers and proposals of the Assembly of the elections would be discussed following the political elections on 6 April. It was during this day that the moments of deepest tension took place, when the Assembly of the elections proposed the validation by block of the elected of the majority. On this proposal the young Socialist Member intervened, who, after expressing his disagreement with an unusual practice in parliamentary history, demanded, on the contrary, the invalidation of the elect, motivating it with the irregularity of the conduct of the elections dotted with the violence of the fascist squadronism against the candidates of the opposition. On this occasion Matteotti gave his last speech to the House, a speech that, among other things, represents his civic and moral commitment. In it the author explicitly accused the fascist regime of violence, intimidation and fraud, both during the election campaign and during voting operations at the seats. The intervention took place in a relaxing atmosphere, characterized by attacks ad personam by the main fascist exponents, starting with Roberto Farinacci. Matteotti continued equally, often ironically apostrophoning the accusations and invectives of the fascists. And on that occasion, coming out of the Chamber, to the unitary deputy Cosattini who accompanied him, Matteotti said: Now prepare to make my memorial. Faithful to his program of not giving breath to the Fascist Government, Matteotti, on June 5, brought his offensive within the General Budget Council. The draft law authorising the Government for the provisional financial year was to be discussed. The analysis of the figures allowed Matteotti to conclude that the official budget presented by the Government a few days earlier to Parliament and the Sovereign, which provided for balance, was false, while the real budget had a deficit of two billion. On 11 June, at the reopening of the Chamber, the provisional exercise would be discussed, and since 8 June the newspapers had begun to publish the list of members of the Chamber to speak on the provisional exercise: among these, also the name of Matteotti. The speech was prepared with great commitment. Anyone looking for him in those days was sure they could find him in a private room of the House Library, in front of documents, books, newspaper clippings. His days were marked by long stays at the library, which Matteotti reached in the early afternoon and left towards evening to return home. So some of his colleagues had come up with the idea that he was preparing a very strong speech. But, as is well known, Matteotti never came to deliver that speech, cut off by fascist violence just on the eve of that intervention that many, too many, feared as a revealer of the serious cases of corruption for which Mussolini himself and some of the main fascist hierarchies would have been responsible. Giacomo Matteotti remains a reference point in our history, a light that from the past continues to illuminate our present and, for more reasons, to orient our future, a figure that can speak to everyone and that for everyone, today, can represent a message of hope and progress. His life and death still constitute a lesson of intransigence and honesty, together with that of the many others who at the darkest moment sacrificed everything for freedom, such as Giovanni Amendola, Piero Gobetti, Don Giovanni Minzoni. Its history is the credible and authoritative testimony in defense of freedom and of Parliament. Parliament was and is the place of representation, the place where the country must find its synthesis, the place, to use its words, in which the Italian plebs, the agricultural plebs, were to cease to be plebs and become people, aware, mature, referee of their own destiny. The freedom of the people is the foundation of the nation and its identity, for which fighting is not an option, but a moral duty rooted in the sense of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of Giacomo Matteotti, I call on the House to respect a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u10	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Italy, I agree with your words, Mr President, in the memory of that exemplary figure of Italian, Democrat and Socialist who was Giacomo Matteotti. To rethink his martyrdom means to go to the most authentic origins of our democracy and its deep roots in anti-fascism, in opposition to dictatorship, in the Resistance and in the Constitution. Rivers of words have been written about James Matteotti. His thought and activity have been the subject of studies, research, university thesis and political analysis that have crossed the history of the country, its democratic evolution and the Italian left. Reformist but not gradual, intransigent but never maximalist. Giacomo Matteotti, who was also on Turati's side at the Socialist Congress in 1921, was not flattened to the positions of the elderly leader. More than gradualism in widening the democratic spaces of the country, exploiting the flexibility of the Albertino Statute, pushed him towards reformism the radical dissent towards the Soviet model and the conviction that socialism and democracy, with forms quite different from the interweaving of liberalism and so-called bourgeois democracy, should be one. But what makes Matteotti's thinking and work topical is that he laid the moral question at the foundation of politics. Fascism for him was to be fought without reservation, certainly, for its inherent illiberal nature, but his fierce parliamentary battle and not, which recalls much that conducted by the columns of the "Liberal Revolution" by Piero Gobetti or those of "The People" by Giuseppe Donati, both later dead due to the consequences of fascist aggressions, is first and foremost a moral denunciation. The electoral frauds denounced by Matteotti were the result of a perverse compromise between ancient consorts of power and a new generation frustrated by the betrayed post-war hopes that he wanted, even with the most rude agreement and violence, to tear down the old ruling classes that survived the crisis of the Risorgimento State and thus stop the long wave that, especially in the industrial North, the Soviet revolution was producing. Matteotti sided with intransigent rigor against the progressive establishment of the regime, the failure of constitutional rules and the approval of libertarian laws against the freedom of the press, political and trade union rights, also accompanied by an atmosphere of violence and intimidation that in August 1923 had already led to the physical elimination of Fr Minzoni, the parish priest of Argenta. The kidnapping and assassination of the young socialist congressman is the tragic epilogue of this initial phase of the fascist experience, in which the naive hope of so many democrats to be able to constitutionalize fascism clashed with the actual will of Mussolini and the regime to establish the dictatorship in Italy, with the complicity and ambiguity of the monarchy. Matteotti's crime, which caused many echoes in the rest of Europe, made the international democratic world understand the true nature of fascism. To the memory of James Matteotti and his sacrifice go all our respect and gratitude for having embodied a noble watershed between freedom and tyranny, between personal dignity and servility, between individual interest and common good. It is a lesson of extraordinary topicality that we must all try to make our own together. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u13	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, this Italian is remembered for his death, for his murderer, and is rightly placed among the defenders of freedom, a symbol of resistance to dictatorship, of fearless courage, pushed to the point of total sacrifice. In the memory of the Italians, Matteotti is the victim of fascism, the opponent, as you recalled, murdered coldly on June 10, 1924. The knowledge that exists in our country often does not go beyond this dramatic final event, which touched the whole civil world, as Luigi Sturzo will say, and caused fascism to falter but failed to collapse it. Yet this Italian cannot and must not be remembered only for his bloody death. Matteotti's writings and speeches capture the intellectual, moral and political rigour with which he conducted his investigations and presented his complaints. Defender of the agricultural workers of that time, who were the pariahs of the economy of the time, repeatedly threatened and attacked by fascist groups, hindered in the forensic profession and in parliamentary activity, with his action and his words risked conscience, organized dissent and contrast to a majority that became, day after day, more and more despotic. The political, economic and social season that Matteotti lived is widely known, widely known, widely studied: a season in which the passions and political divisions, those inherited from the Risorgimento, were harsh and without neighborhood, but in hindsight it can be said that then one could not understand how necessary the unity of democratic political forces would be, to save the country and put it in security both on the economic and democracy front. Socialists, liberals and Catholics opposed each other with a devastating determination and violence for society and for the democratic structures of the country. The Matteotti crime happens because then it was not understood that in democracies there are times when passion and political division must give way to governments and large majorities, built on the sense of responsibility and with the determination to turn the page, to reform the system, to make changes and epochal changes. Then our predecessors were unable to take on this high and responsible task. The system degenerated, demagogies and rhetoric and populism took over, democracy and freedom were eclipsed, the prevarication became law and Matteotti was murdered. Therefore, Matteotti must certainly be remembered for his sacrifice, for his writings and for his works, but his sacrifice must be remembered as an admonition to politics that must know how the supreme good of the country must always be placed before its own political faction. His anti-retoric style is an example for young people and for those who want and should always approach politics. Consistent opponent of war, serious and coherent reformist, man of action and man of deep culture, precise, rigorous, sharp and courageous to the point of saying "Kill me too," but the idea that is in me you will never kill him, is the example of transparent, prophetic and concrete politician. Remembering his disappearance is a reminder of our responsibilities, duties and tasks in the construction of our society. I conclude by quoting his last words - addressed to the fascists - which are still extremely topical: You declare every day that you want to restore the authority of the State and the law. Do so, if you are still in time; otherwise you, indeed, ruin what is the intimate essence, the moral reason of the nation. Do not continue to keep the nation divided into masters and subjects, for this system certainly causes license and revolt. If instead freedom is given, there may be errors, momentary excesses, but the Italian people, like any other, have shown that they can correct themselves... We defend the free sovereignty of the Italian people to whom we send the highest greetings and we believe we claim their dignity.......................................................................................................... Phrases, prophetic words and this is the memory of James Matteotti that I like to bring to this House. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Senators Susta, Liuzzi and De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u16	Barani (GAL). Mr President, you can well understand with what pride and pride, as national secretary of the new PSI, with the DNA of Giacomo Matteotti, I am here today to commemorate, ninety years after his assassination, a socialist, a reformist, an opponent to the fascist regime, a graduate brutally killed, a symbol, an icon of a historical phase that, precisely from the disappearance of the socialist leader, will degenerate further, as we all know. Mr President, Matteotti had the opportunity to meet Mussolini in 1912, at the Congress of the PSI of Reggio Emilia, from which Bissolati and Bonomi came out, while Matteotti had remained with Turati on maximalist positions. That convention marked Matteotti who admitted the mistake, recognizing that he had made a mistake. Today we remember a man, a socialist politician who fought for democracy, freedom and justice, values that have rightly made him a hero, but tragically martyr: this is how history gives us, a story that certainly, without the activity of the socialist leader, would have been different. Secretary of the United Socialist Party in 1922, he died in 1924 and thus held that office. Ninety years later, in an almost mature democracy, the heartfelt commemoration of a man who helped to write fundamental pages for Italy is not only timely but necessary, Mr President. It is therefore obvious that today the country, all the political forces, the institutions and the social partners remember the friend, Comrade Lauro - Lauro Giacomo Matteotti - but just as well it is right to remember him for what he really was, avoiding that we pass from a necessary commemoration to an inappropriate usurpation of one of the greatest political figures of the twentieth century, especially by those who changed many names in the course of their political history but never had the courage to be called socialist. Let us commemorate him for what he really was or be silent. It is therefore said that today we are celebrating a socialist, a great reformist, always and in any case against the dictatorships of his time, whether they be fascists or communists. I would like to read Matteotti's reply to the invitation addressed to him by the Communists who, after a tragic split of the Socialist Party in Livorno - at the Matteotti Congress, as you, Mr President, well remembered, participated only on the first day and alas, given what happened yesterday in Livorno, after 90 years I think I can say that he was right - asked to compose a common front against the fascists: Those who have multiplied and intensified the reasons for division and discord in the working class are useless and ridiculous to go back to camouflage from unitary and from "single front." Let us all remain what we are: you are communists, for the dictatorship and for the method of minority violence; we are socialists and for the democratic method of free majorities. So there is nothing common between us and you. In short, the socialists with the socialists and communists with the communists! Nenni had listened to him in 1948 and had given reason to Saragat: the history of the socialists would have been different. Therefore, this is the profound sense of Matteotti's thought and political action: to combat dictatorships, whatever they may be, in the name of freedom of rights, even by traumatic actions, but without replacing one regime with another. From that point of view, he therefore argued that dictatorship should be fought. If Matteotti was an inconvenient character to fascism because of a firm and convinced opposition to the regime, he had probably become dangerous also for documents, as you reported, Mr President, that he had found in that bag, in London, about the best known oil scandal: the Sinclair Oil deal. A dossier that would have been useful for the purpose of a complaint, from the Chamber of the Chamber, on 11 June, of the illegal business activities of the regime of Arnaldo Mussolini and of King Vittorio Emanuele III, whose documents are in Washington and can be found. I close by saying that, as a socialist, I am glad to have remembered Giacomo Matteotti in his 90th anniversary of his murder. The only regret is that today, in this House and in the House, there is no Socialist Parliamentary Group, or really reformist, referring to the one in which Giacomo Lauro Matteotti militated. Mr President, in conclusion, I would ask you to allow me to leave the full text of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u17	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u20	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating the 90th anniversary of the kidnapping of Giacomo Matteotti, a Socialist Member, who ended with his killing by subjects related to the circles of the Fascist National Party and Benito Mussolini, then President of the Council. The successive reconstructions of the facts and of this death announced by Matteotti himself attribute the main cause to the repeated denunciations of the same against frauds, corruptions and illegality committed by the Mussolini Government and the members of the Fascist Party. This - at least - is mentioned in the chronicles of the time and in the following decades. On the other hand, there is no talk - even today it does not emerge clearly - of what was the underlying reason why, against Matteotti, the vengeance and the murderous violence of Mussolini's assassins broke out. In my opinion, this reason lies in the fact that in a divided and often resigned Parliament, if not condescending to the muslin drift, only the voice of Giacomo Matteotti and of a few others rose clearly and determinedly: "Kill me too, but the idea that is in me you will never kill her." Socialists with socialists, communists with communists. I have only one statement to make to you: I do not make statements to you. I did my speech, now you prepare the funeral speech for me. The isolation, the fact of being left alone in the silence of those who were to speak, but did not agree, left the murderous hand free. The death announced in his last speech to the Chamber highlights this situation without misunderstanding; James Matteotti was absolutely aware of this and, at the same time, intransigently determined to consider that final testimony of truth indispensable. The intransigence, courage and heroic testimony of Giacomo Matteotti inspired in the decades after his death many socialists and many young Italians in carrying forward their civil commitment and their political battle to affirm truth and rule of law against all forms of prevarication. Matteotti dealt with many other things in his commitment as political leader and socialist deputy. However, there is no doubt that his uncompromising battle for truth and legality was the underlying reason for his tragic death. This moral and political legacy is still of a dramatic and extraordinary topicality. Hence the reasons for a remembrance and a non-ritual commemoration, but also a moment of words of truth, an indispensable foundation for a moral and civil recovery of which Italy today feels indispensable necessity. To us men and women of the institutions runs the personal and political obligation of an extraordinary commitment to restart, but permanent in the action of recovery of a morality and an intransigent rigor in compliance with the rules that we have given ourselves and that for a long time now, as institutions and as community, we have lost. In a time of reform this is the most important, that of changing the behavior of individuals and collectives. The rules are there; it is the respect of the same ones that has failed in an unacceptable way and dimension. For the denunciation of the state of the things of his time, but also of our time, rather than in the recognition of the limit of the rules, Giacomo Matteotti, Socialist Member, has sacrificed himself. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u23	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, today the 90th anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti, on June 10, 1924, abducted and killed by a fascist hand. Although many years have passed, it is of fundamental importance to keep reminding ourselves and mainly the younger generations that it was also thanks to the sacrifice of men like Matteotti that principles such as freedom, justice and equality could be affirmed and the Republic came to light after the fascist dictatorship and the tragedy of the Second World War. Giacomo Matteotti paid with death his relentless act of accusation against the suppression of democratic freedom and legality. It was, in fact, at the meeting of May 30, 1924, in which we discussed the proposal made by the Junta of the elections to validate in block the elected of the majority, that Matteotti had the courage to denounce the illegalities committed by the fascists and the governing bodies during the electoral campaign, well aware that he would pay with his life his denunciation. He had approached politics since he was very young (at the age of sixteen) to try to remedy the misery of his fellow citizens of Fratta Polesine. Perhaps in this town in the province of Rovigo, where in 1818 the tragedy of the Fratta coalari occurred, the first example of Austrian repression of the aspirations for national freedom and emancipation, Matteotti breathed the air of self-determination and independence that led him to adhere to the principles of socialism, demonstrating as well as a young bourgeois, who lived in a comfortable situation, could be interested in the fate of the weakest and oppressed. During World War I he was convinced that he supported Italian neutrality by calling for peace. This position leads Matteotti to be threatened by nationalists. Then, for a speech to the Provincial Council of Rovigo against the war in 1916, he was sentenced and interned in Sicily. He never abandoned the deepening of his legal studies. He was elected in 1910 to the Provincial Council of Rovigo and since then political commitment was at the centre of his existence, with a particular attention to the themes of work, which he considered fundamental for the emancipation and balanced development of people. He was a real reformist, convinced that we must constantly update our ideas in comparison with experience, because only in this way can a pact give adequate answers to the demands that come from society. Matteotti was elected deputy in 1919. He was a perfect stranger but, in a short time, he was able to stand out for his commitment to work, for culture and competence. He strongly believed in the centrality of Parliament, Mr President, and for this reason, he probably would never have approved the Aventine tactic, that is, the desertion from Parliament itself. The reason for this is simple understanding: he made Parliament the centre of his political action throughout the dramatic period in which he was a member. His irruent, ironic, aggressive, pungent, reasoned, always punctual, prepared and never improvised speeches have brought out his high political stature: speeches, Mr President, against the great monuments of the Italian history of that time and, therefore, against Mussolini and Fascism, but always in Parliament, in the place of representation where the plebs, peasants, laborers and disinherits ceased to be such and became a conscious people and - as you said before, Mr President - referees of their own destiny. Giacomo Matteotti is one of the few great myths of twentieth-century Italian history: a myth that has crossed national borders, a myth entered into the best European literature with testimonies dedicated to him in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria and Latin America. As I said before, Matteotti was elected a Member in 1919 and was a complete stranger, but this brought him to the honours of Parliament's news as one of the most interesting elements of that period. As a strong man of his ideas, he often repeated a phrase, which today was the most quoted in this House: "Kill me too, but the idea that is in me you will never kill him; and it was precisely so: his sacrifice is emblematic of his commitment to the affirmation of his ideals. Finally, Mr President, with one consideration: perhaps Matteotti might not have made that speech, but, as Oriana Fallaci wrote: There are moments in life when silence becomes guilt and speech becomes an obligation. A civil duty, a moral challenge, a categorical imperative to which one cannot escape. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Albertini, Barani and Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u26	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as a Mixed Group and as a Left Ecology and Freedom, we would like to recall James Matteotti ninety years after his assassination. We are doing so first and foremost by associating ourselves, of course, with your words, Mr President. In this way we would like to recall not only a high and dramatic page of Italian history, but also and above all one of the opponents most feared by fascism, one of the builders of the Italian socialist movement, the tireless witness of the very hard conditions in which the peasants of his Polesine lived in those years, which he helped to organize themselves in the leagues, and finally the parliamentarians who knew the laws and the scholar of law, the great speaker, the skillful political organizer. Remembering Giacomo Matteotti means - I believe - also making a reflection on today and on the prospects of democratic life and political action. Giacomo Matteotti, like Antonio Gramsci, brings us back to the long battle for the conquest of democracy by what an ancient language called the popular masses: a conquest that he did not see achieved and that would come only after the twenty years of dictatorship and the tragedy of war. Matteotti, an apostle of truth and reason - as he was rightly defined - led as a reformist socialist a desperate battle without remorse against the rising fascism, while the workers' movement was being organized, even within a storm of divisions and lacerations, in the tragic confrontation between reformists, maximalists and communists. Yet it wasn't that much definition, if we remember the speech given to the House on May 30, 1924, when Matteotti denounced the illegality and violence committed by fascism in the previous elections. That speech - it has already been remembered - was probably his condemnation, and James Matteotti knew well what he was facing, so much so as to tell those who complimented him to prepare himself to write his funeral prayer. In fact, he had perfectly understood the nature of the regime, its totalitarian character, and denounced its root of oppression and violence that was at the base of the government already then authoritarian, in spite of the rhetoric that propaganda fueled. To those who asked him to speak "prudently," he replied that he wanted to speak "parlamentamentamente" instead. This is the deepest meaning of his political work and witness. That testimony comes to us as a reminder of the centrality of democratic institutions, even those heavily conditioned by the limitations on political life (the same suffrage, which was not universal), but which, however, since the introduction of proportional law in 1919 had seen the break into the parliamentary classrooms of the popular parties. Matteotti was firmly convinced that, with the harsh political and parliamentary battle, with the strict application of the laws, the reasons of the popular classes could be represented and defended through the achievement of social objectives. Not only: Matteotti embodied in his own figure, with his life and death, the idea of the mission of the political man. The passion, the sense of responsibility and the far-sightedness, that is, the decisive qualities for the political man were the founding characteristics of his history of militant and man of the institutions. In times - those of today - when the common sense sees politics as a superfluous, if not harmful, activity, instead rethinking the idea of politics as a mission appears to say little out of the world, in the time of the dramatic breakdown between institutions and society, marked by disestimation for politics as organized collective activity that feeds democracy. If we live, in fact, in the society of risk, in which uncontrollable powers such as financial flows can determine the life of entire peoples, if these powers are no longer controllable by politics understood as the associated activity of people, then politics itself can at most reduce to activities of management and occupation of positions of power. Even if it is confusing, this is the feeling that more and more prevails in Western societies, feeding populist forces and disaffection to democratic life. It is for this reason that the same myth of speed may in the immediate future resettle this feeling of ineffectiveness, but it will not succeed in suturing the wound that has opened, if we do not put politics back into circulation within society and if we do not try to get out of the crisis of democratic societies. The figure of Matteotti teaches exactly this, that is, that politics in order to regain the sense of a mission must return to having to serve a cause. This cause can only be, today, in the world we live in, the battle to remedy the ever deeper inequalities that mark European societies. The links between society and politics must be placed more and more in this dilemma. If a collective dimension is to be given back to democracy, politics must regain a horizon of meaning and even a historical task: both, democracy and politics, must again be merged into that popular sovereignty which our Constitution magistrates as the basis of the democratic order. One and the other together can neutralize the cries of those who are ready only to reap despair. It is here, all here, in the constant tension to keep alive the democracy, the moral and historical legacy of Giacomo Matteotti. (Followed by Mr de Cristofaro) This is what the memory handed down to us and that we have a duty to continue to preserve, because a society without memory cannot live and because, instead, from that witness and from that moral and political tension we can find today the reasons and impulses capable of fueling our democracy again. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u29	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, today we honour the memories of Giacomo Matteotti, recalling not only death - as is often the case for martyrs - but also life: that short but intense life that saw him as the national secretary of his small party, the United Socialist Party, parliamentary for three legislatures, scholar of law, local administrator and organizer of peasant leagues in the splendid land of our colleague Munerato, the Polesine, which nature and the luckiest men have often made ungenerous for the most unfortunate multitudes, especially at that time. However, as has been said, Matteotti has become first and foremost a symbol of the necessary and intransigent opposition to all forms of totalitarianism, that is, when a part claims to do everything, occupies the State and expels all those who do not conform. Yet, even more at this time, I, who also have a special connection with Giacomo Matteotti, who was perhaps one of those who motivated my first political commitment in a land that at the time elected a son as a member of the Social Democratic Party, am above all interested in giving value to his sacrifice, recalling still today the topicality of the duty not to underestimate political violence, that is, all the moments in which (and unfortunately in the experience of our country have been recurrent) violence becomes a method in political confrontation, in the democratic dialectic, which indeed loses this adjective. Just yesterday a seat of the Democratic Party in Florence was the subject of an intimidating attack, and we frequently witness episodes of violence not even spontaneous, but organized, programmed. Today, in Italy, there are cities that are inaccessible to the congress of a democratic party, of one of the parties represented in Parliament: it is not a mystery that we were not advised to hold our congress in the city of Turin, a city in which not long ago the Secretary-General of the CISL was the subject of the launch of a burning candle, an act that was readily understood and not the subject of adequate reactions (even institutional, if I may). I believe that in the days when an investigation has reopened about the institutional underestimation of the many early signs that could lead to the protection of a man who had placed himself in the service of politics for civil passion as was Marco Biagi, in the days when the signs of the attitude to political violence are repeated and reproposed, in the days when in an Italy in which political lawlessness, the one which derives from a behavior that defines itself as political, is so easily tolerated, it is well to remember absolutely the example of Giacomo Matteotti, not only because of what he subjectively opposed to totalitarianism, but also because of what objectively means his death: an underestimation of violence, of the possible degeneration of violence, of that red thread that unites verbal violence to that murderous one, when that thread is not broken by a strong, widespread, shared democratic reaction. Let's remember Giacomo Matteotti not to repeat, not to underestimate. [[Applause from the NCD and LN-Aut groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u30	We greet a representation of mayors and administrators of the mountain community of Piambello, in the province of Varese, including the president of the mountain community, the mayor of Arcisate and the mayor of Viggiù. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u33	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are words that I have found today in a newspaper and that seem to me to be very effective in starting a reflection that I will then develop. "I finished my speech, now prepare the funeral speech for me," so Giacomo Matteotti, Member of Parliament and Secretary of the United Socialist Party, ended his speech in the Chamber of Deputies on 30 May 1924. In that intervention with the civil passion of always and with the usual tightening concatenation of the facts, Matteotti listed all the nefariousness of which the black shirts of Mussolini had become protagonists. At the end of his speech, repeatedly interrupted by the chatter and vulgarity of the fascists, the Socialist Member concluded as follows: "We hold the validity of the elections in this place and in the balance." He was referring to the parliamentary elections won by Mussolini and his allies. That list was so detailed and documented that it aroused the attention of the foreign press itself, particularly the English press. On that same occasion he preannounced a second intervention that he would have to pronounce on June 11, and in which, in addition to the frauds, he would denounce the maxi bribe that the American group Sinclair Oil had probably paid to the fascists - and in particular, probably, to the brother of the duce - in exchange for the concession for the search and the exploitation of eventual oil deposits. In the following days he devoted himself to the drafting of that complaint and collected the documentation in his stock exchange (as a previous colleague reminded me), working to this end in the library of the Chamber of Deputies in order to be able, with plenty of details, to argue his request and his complaint. On 10 June 1924, on his way to the Chamber of Deputies, a group of fascists, well-known to the party and Mussolini, kidnapped and killed Matteotti. Amerigo Dumini led them, later, they were sentenced to five years for preterintentional murder, the perpetrators, of course, remained in government, indeed intensified the repression, until the suspension - as we all know - of all political and civil rights. Matteotti's bag was never found, just as it will not be found in the following decades, other burning bags or compromising agendas. "Kill me too, but you will never kill the ideas that are in me," he shouted in the face of the black coats, Giacomo Matteotti, a few months before he was killed. One of the reasons why I asked the 5 Star Movement Group to be able to remember Matteotti's figure is that he hardly sent them to say, but he told her directly, so much so that he was nicknamed, precisely because of his fieryness, "Tempesta." What a difference with those who continue to pocket bribes "unknowledgeable" and dishonor the office of parliamentarians, mayor, representative of a public institution; also for this reason, and not only for this, it seemed right to remember Giacomo Matteotti 90 years after his martyrdom. Beppe Giulietti wrote these words to her - because it seems right to remember it - that many will remember to be the inspiration of Article 21. Now, not only do I want to remind everyone that those years have similarities with those we are living. Not only do I want to remember that Giacomo Matteotti fought, although he did not have great sympathy for the union leaders, for the overall improvement of the plebs (so, today, he would be even more ill to know how much FIAT proposes to the unions as a one-off prize for 2014). But Giacomo Matteotti always wanted to guarantee freedom of speech. I come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where, for what I have read, a colleague has been removed as a result of an purge (as he himself called it). Let's ask ourselves if this has any reason to be today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u36	PAGNONCELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, through the figure of Giacomo Matteotti we want to remember a man who is simply an example for all of us: a model of political passion, intellectual honesty and the courage of his ideas. Politics, in the highest sense of the word, was the bright lighthouse that guided his every choice, always calling him to choose what was right for him, regardless of any personal and partisan convenience. An adversary of the war in Libya in 1912, convinced of neutrality in the First World War, in 1919 he took sides against the PSI maximalists and increasingly distanced himself from the Russian revolution and Leninism. In 1922, together with Turati and other representatives of Italian socialism, he founded the United Socialist Party. His battle, ideal, courageous and often solitary, against fascism had already begun. He was among the first to denounce first the dangers and then the violence with which fascism was undertaking its climb to power. His writings, his speeches and his political action do not need to be emphasized, because they are part of the heritage of Italy as a whole. Today, ninety years after his death, which occurred at the hands of the Fascist, I want to recall and emphasize some aspects of the life and thought of Giacomo Matteotti that perhaps deserve more attention, not only for their depth, but also and above all for their extraordinary modernity. The first of these aspects is its certainty, never questioned, of the obligation to comply with the law. In a world where arbitrariness and violence were the order of the day, the figure of Matteotti stands out as a giant defending the law. Socialism had to be, according to its conception, the way to restore the rule of law seized by fascist violence. Often the newspapers of the time called him extremist and maximalist, not because of his political positions, always moderate and democratic, but because of his strenuous battles for fairness and progressiveness in taxation, against waste of public resources and for the clear separation between political parties and unions. His intransigent need for justice and uprightness never justified entanglements and corruption. And this is the second aspect of the figure of Matteotti that I would like to emphasize: moral integrity. His political vision was based on a rigorous analysis that did not allow compromises on the basic principles that inspired him: social justice, fairness and democratic passion. The ethical solidity of Giacomo Matteotti's action was also the cause, in some respects, of an attitude of silent isolation towards him, even from the socialist leaders who had formed the United Socialist Party along with him. Giacomo Matteotti's intuition as a precursor of fundamental political issues, which would reappear in the decades to come, led him to understand the importance of sound economic management of the public machine. As an expert local administrator and great connoisseur of the public budget, the principles of intransigence and rigour were declined in Matteotti's thinking both in the moral sphere and in that of concrete administrative and economic action. As mentioned recently in the commemoration organized by the Anna Kuliscioff Foundation in these days, Matteotti is once again more evolved than the traditional socialist schemes and rituals: he thought, in fact, that the real revolution would take place when the workers had learned, not by decree or rebellion, to manage the public thing. A modern socialism, in fact, could have created an inclusive economic system and an effective network of assistance for the weakest sections of the population, the workers, following two directives so simple as to be paradoxically revolutionary: a sense of responsibility and technical uprightness. Only by applying these two principles did Matteotti imagine an effective administration of public resources and a proper organization of the community. With a deep experience on the territory, the political dimension that Matteotti imagined as a fundamental starting point in the work of public healing was the municipal one, showing attention to themes still recurrent today such as sensitivity to the requests of the territory and development of the local communities. On the other hand, the action of local administrator is also due to the concrete aspect of Matteotti's political action, with a strong inclination to the practical solution of the problems of the weakest, rather than to the sterile debate on revolutionary ideas of the left. The figure of Giacomo Matteotti is one of the leaders of Italian political history. On June 10, 90 years ago, the life of a free and upright man ended violently, and today we must assume the task of ensuring that the values of his life lesson are not forgotten or, even worse, used as mere exercise of empty rhetoric. We all have a duty to follow his example: to conceive political activity as free from ideological transformations and free from personal convenience, animated exclusively by the civic sense and the will to contribute to the common good. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u39	TRONTI (PD). Madam President, in working on this reflection and this remembrance, I have come back to the passages of our history which we, too, sometimes risk forgetting here. He recalls Gaetano Arfè, in an essay on the Italian Historical Review, that Piero Gobetti dedicates to Giacomo Matteotti even a number of his great magazine "Liberal Revolution" on July 1, 1924, just twenty days away from the crime. The profile of Matteotti written by Gobetti himself outlined for the occasion a picture of reformist socialism, mutualizing many reasons for the controversy between Salvemini and Gramsci. Gobetti wrote: "He (Matteotti) was the only Italian socialist (preceded by Gaetano Salvemini) for whom reformism was not synonymous with opportunism." The essay of Arfé bears this title: "Giacomo Matteotti man and politician." It is in this synthesis of humanity and politics that I believe this figure should be brought back to memory: the first symbolic martyr of anti-fascistism, but also political of race, who makes a very young choice of life of practical commitment to the living and working conditions of the popular classes. When Matteotti was born, he exploded in his lands, the Polesine, that movement of just, even if of exasperated protest that will go under the name, and the cry, "La boje!" He always remained passionately in this tradition, which is precisely the history of that socialist reformism, intransigent and radical, even in its gradualism, whose social base was located in the countryside of the Valle Padana. It has been said that, as for Gramsci the first reference will be the industrial proletariat, for Matteotti it was that exploited and yet dignified proletariat, politically advanced in its forms of struggle and organization. What for Gramsci were the factory councils, for Matteotti were the municipalities and the leagues. As an expert local administrator he came to propose a consortium of municipalities: our Soviets, he will call them at the Congress of Bologna of the Socialist Party. And he saw in the Padan countryside as a great city: the city spread, not urbanly, as it is said today, but socially. His feet as a agitator and a scholar were always planted on this fertile ground. He deals with agricultural agreements, schools, roads, phones. Luigi Einaudi, with whom Matteotti had fierce controversy, paid posthumous homage to his financial skills, to the scientific dress with which he faced the problems, far from the facery and demagogy. Matteotti, strongly opposed to the war, as has been mentioned here, and severely controversial with the representatives, even socialists, of democratic interventionism, was among the first to appreciate Keynes' brilliant writings on the economic consequences of peace and the criticism of the devastating sanctions imposed on Germany defeated. It was recalled that in 1919 he was elected a Member of Parliament. In October 1922, following the further split of the party, after that of Livorno, he was elected secretary of the United Socialist Party. A few days earlier, in the newspaper "La Lotta" of Rovigo had written: I am ashamed that our congresses devote all their time to these diatribes; that we think of nothing but divisions. The proletariat must be united: one block, even under the storm. Already in March 1921, in the course of a bitter trade union struggle in Polesine, he was attacked. It is loaded on a cart by the fascists, beaten, threatened with death, abandoned in the open countryside. On June 10, 1924, the fatal ambush, kidnapping and murder. Two years earlier, in 1922, the same fate had come to Walther Rathenau, the exceptional political and intellectual, then foreign minister, by a group of German nationalists and revancists. It is against these figures, you see from us Aldo Moro, that the most fanatical barbarism is always fierce. In the end, these are the most dangerous personalities. Political violence belongs to the weak, not to the strong. Those who fail to fight their opponent with the weapons of criticism, resort to the criticism of weapons. This is what great totalitarianisms have done, and this is what small terrors have done. In June 1985, on the centenary of the birth of Matteotti's death and on the nineteenth anniversary of the death of Matteotti - I take this quotation from a very documented monograph on Giuseppe Saragat, by our colleague Senator Fornaro - Saragat, called to hold the official commemoration in the presence of the President of the Republic Sandro Pertini, makes an interesting notation: Matteotti's reformism is an attitude of seriousness in the face of problems that are not resolved with the conati of pseudorevolutionary amateurism or with the violence of fanatics, but with a conscious and creative action. Matteotti, in his brief intense existence, was deeply concerned with that "reformism to the test," which is the title of an article by Filippo Turati on social criticism, not by chance at the time when the long Ministry Giolitti opened. Giacomo Matteotti is a vaccine against the possible disease of reformism. Arfé concluded his essay by recalling the intuition, which immediately spread then, that he had voluntarily gone to death or that he had waited for it, without looking for it, but without stepping back. And remember that Claudio Treves was the first to greet him as a martyr, that Piero Gobetti called him "The volunteer of death," that Ernesto Bonaiuti challenges him: "Do you go in search of the face of God?" Carlo Rosselli wrote to Nenni: You spoke to me once and so that I was moved by Matteotti. I too have often dreamed that I could end my life so usefully. And we know he's gonna do it. He concluded the essay: "They are testimonies of men, among the highest consciences of Italy of the time" (). And, it would be bitter to say, of a time. Dear Madam President, Senators and Senators, we have the duty, the ethical obligation, to convey to the new generations the example of these people, who have made the vocation to politics noble. It is not enough for the judicial tribunal, it is before the court of this history that they are and must be summoned, so that they may come to be ashamed of themselves, they are still able to do so, all the corrupt and corrupt who infest, with their plague, our Republic. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, Senators Torrisi and Comrade and from the government benches. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u40	I believe that the House, with its speeches, has properly honoured the memory of Giacomo Matteotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u41	The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 26 June. As regards the examination of the draft law on anti-corruption, the Leaders took note of the Commission's decision to suspend its discussion, pursuant to Article 51 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the forthcoming presentation of a government initiative measure, and agreed by a majority to schedule these draft laws in the last week of June, when the examination was completed in the Commission. For the current week the other topics provided for in the calendar remain firm. I would remind you that on Thursday 12 June, at 12 noon, Parliament is convened in a joint sitting for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first. The afternoon sitting on Thursday will therefore end at 11.45 a.m. Next week's calendar, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 17, provides for the report of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime; the draft law on craft enterprises, where concluded by the Commission; the Pignedoli motion on the promotion of a global food pact for Expo 2015; the De Petris motions on regasification plants and on the power plant in Civitavecchia, as well as the follow-up of the motions on the MUOS satellite communication system. At the afternoon session on Thursday 19 June, the question time will take place with the Minister for Economic Development. At his afternoon sitting on Tuesday 24 June, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council on 26 and 27 June and on the policy lines of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u42	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2014 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the phenomenon of the Mafia and other criminal associations, also foreign on the prospects of reform of the system of management of assets seized and confiscated to organized crime (Doc. XXIII, n. 1) - Drawing of Law No 264 and related - Rules for the establishment and regulation of the mark "company of living assets"
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u43	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 26 June 2014: [[Tuesday, June 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1479 - Decree-Law n. 73, extension of the administration of public works (final vote by 11 June) (Scade 11 July) - Votes on the resignation submitted by Senator Bignami and Mussini (Vote by secret ballot) (Wednesday 11, ant.) - Motions on operation Mare Nostrum Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-11.45 Thursday 12 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Parliament shall be convened at 12 noon on Thursday 12 June for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. Mr Senator will be voting first. [[Tuesday, June 17 pom. h. 16-20.30 - Report by the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime (Doc. XXIII, n. 1) - Drawing of Law no. 264 and related - Craft enterprises (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Discussion of motion no. 262, Pignedoli, on the promotion of a "Global Pact for Food" for Expo 2015 - Discussion of motions no. 18 and 133, De Petris, on the regasification plants and on the power plant of Civitavecchia. - Follow-up of the discussion of motions on the satellite communication system MUOS Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, June 19 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Economic Development]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 264 and related (artisan enterprises) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, June 24 pom. h. 16.30 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 26 and 27 June and on the policy lines of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on Wednesday 25 June h. 9,30-13,30 - Drawings of law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Anti-corruption (Ove concluded by the Commission)'pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 26 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 (Anti-corruption) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1479 (Decree-Law No 73, extension of administration of public works) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Brussels European Council of 26 and 27 June (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 33' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 17' NCD 15' Mixed 13' LN-Aut 11' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 10' GAL 10' PI 10' SCP 9' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u46	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I take the floor to submit an alternative timetable to the House, since it was the representative of the only political force that at the Conference of the Leaders opposed what, as we have just heard, provides for the debate in this House on the so-called anti-corruption package, hypothetically, in the last week of June. Mr President, you mentioned the second paragraph of Rule 51 of our Rules of Procedure, which now, for the convenience of all senators, I read: When the Government informs the Assembly that it wishes to present its own draft law on a matter which is already the subject of a bill of parliamentary initiative assigned to a Commission, it may defer or suspend the discussion of the bill until the government draft is presented, but in any case for no more than one month. I would first like to ask whether there is a fellow senator or a fellow senator who can testify today, in this House, that the Government has provided information on the filing of a bill on anti-corruption. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not think I can be denied, and in any case, if anyone wants to do so, they will be able to do so after me, if I say that there has been no communication in this House in the manner indicated by our Rules of Procedure. This is the first point that we must stress in order to make it clear to those outside this House that once again, I repeat, you did not want to listen to those who, in a subtle and purposeful way, wanted those measures to be adopted as soon as possible. The next time on television we hear political representatives repeat the usual solf of the 5 Star Movement that does not propose and that keeps the proposals frozen we will not be able to avoid throwing up on him (of course dialectically) that it is a great lie! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Our proposal was, is and will be to keep faith in the timetable, even if already put by the government, so that this week the anti-corruption package, which, let us remember, provides for legislation on crimes against the public administration, on self-money laundering and on fraud in the budget. Matteo Renzi's government has already intervened once. The 'Governo cappellaio' - from now on we would like to call him that, with all due respect, Madam President, and I hope that he will not take me back for this kind of expression - intervened once in the course of parliamentary work in the Justice Commission, to announce and then propose an amendment regarding the crime of self-recycling. With that intervention, the Government has certainly achieved an objective, that of slowing down parliamentary work, imposing the regulatory times for the sub-emerging phase, and therefore we have had to suffer a slowdown in the dismissal of this legislation. Now, not in the manner provided for in Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, we come to know, in a rather confusing way and behind the media fanfare that we listen to, that the Government has in mind, intends, and is about to intervene with its own measure. Today, at the Conference of Leaders, Minister Boschi had to answer the precise question that the measure will take the form of the bill. We will see what will be decided in the Council of Ministers on Friday. Once again there will be the intervention of the "government café," even at the cost of slowing down and delaying the approval of the legislation against corruption. It is useless to recall the real need and urgency - other than Article 77 of the Constitution - for this House and this Parliament to give an immediate, clear and unambiguous response to what we are all witnessing, to the fall of corruption. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] that in every area is demonstrating how poisoned this country is, with the historical and political responsibility - we must emphasize - of these parties. Why this need to wear a hat? We already know this: because the President-in-Office of the Council will find him on television and in press releases saying that he has acted effectively and quickly to combat corruption and to give a concrete answer, because the problem is thieves, not laws. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem is the criteria that up to now politics, and not only, but essentially politics, has failed to adopt in order to create that filter of morality, civic sense and honesty whose lack today allows the infiltration of evil in every area and in every level, and not only in the political body, as we have seen. The proposal of the 5 Star Movement is to maintain faith in the original calendarization, which will include, tomorrow, or at least within the current week, the vote in the Chamber of the entire package. The amendments are ready, they simply need to be voted on. We can set up one or more night sessions of the Justice Commission, and we know that we could count on this in the Justice Commission, or at least so we would like to hope, in the cooperation of the entire Bureau, for an immediate response to be given and we do not have to be subjugated to the Government's hood that, although we need to make the propaganda of wanting to be the promoter of justice, is in fact slowing down, and we do not know until, the adoption of these measures, which are extremely urgent. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] What's behind this we don't know. Or rather, to want to think well, behind this there is only the intention of the "cappellaio" who wants to put the hat on the initiative of law giving annoyance to Parliament. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Let us suspect that behind these maneuvers there may also be something else, that is, the need for the political forces to achieve balances also relating to the compositions of the parliamentary committees, to the debate on institutional reforms that are at risk of distorting this country, for the reasons that we have illustrated and feared in every place. Meanwhile we cultivate this suspicion, but since we will be breathing down our necks with every move that will be made, know that if that suspicion becomes reality, you will have to deal not with us, but with the citizens, to whom we must tell you these truths. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The anti-corruption, please, let's vote on it this week. Let us also start this evening: President Palma, let us reconvene the Commission which has just been misconceived, and let us remember that the deliberation that has been made in the Commission on justice cannot exceed the letter of the law (of the Rules of Procedure, in our case): ubi lex voluit dixit. So, what Rule 51 says is that the House must be informed: to date, however, this House has not been informed of anything. We don't lend ourselves to these games, thank you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The request is therefore to put to the vote the proposal to schedule the debate on the anti-corruption package for tomorrow, or in any case within the current week. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u47	I take note of the proposal. I do not reread the passage of the decision of the Conference of Leaders in which the choice of the Commission was taken, and it is all settled on the basis of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Buccarella. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Last offer! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator. It's not approved. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1479. The rapporteurs, Senators Dalla Zuanna and Borioli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u49	Madam President, I shall concentrate on Articles 1 and 3, while Mr Borioli will speak on Article 2. [[Brusio.]] I ask you to have some silence, Mr President, because that is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u50	I would ask Members to allow the rapporteur to speak. Please, Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u51	BY THE ZUANNA, rapporteur. I understand that these may not be exciting subjects, but it is important to treat them. Article 1 contains provisions aimed at ensuring the operational continuity of the commissioner's management established to address the emergency conditions connected to the seismic vulnerability of the Galleria Pavoncelli, providing that the aforementioned commissioner's management operates until 31 December 2015. The identical amendments 1.5 and 1.100 propose to extend the deadline to 31 December 2016, while the amendment 1,200, proposed by the Commissions together, inserts a new paragraph that announces Article 4 of Decree-Law No 43 of 2013. The aforementioned rule provides that the commissioner delegate sends to the Parliament and to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, at six-monthly intervals and at the end of the commissioning assignment, a report containing the report on the activities carried out and the accounting report of the expenses incurred. The Commissioner shall also report periodically to the relevant Commissions, at least every six months, on the state of play of the interventions. The amendment proposes that this report should also be sent to the Authority for the supervision of public works contracts, services and supplies. I would like to say that the two Commissions together have audited the Commissioner and that the proposal, voted by the Commissions, for a further extension of the deadline compared to what the Government has asked, has also been made in the light of the fact that the work done seems to be done correctly and that this public work, which has experienced inalienable vicissitudes in some respects, is now underway in the path of continuation and effective implementation. The request for further extension is in the light of the finding that some fundamental contracts for the construction of this gallery refer precisely to a period that also covers 2016. Therefore, just in order not to have to return to the Senate again to request a further extension, we ask to make the extension according to the right deadline for the conclusion of the proceedings. Article 3 - in relation to the emergency in the management of the collection and purification plants of Acerra, Marcianise, Napoli Nord, Foce Regi Lagni, Cuma and of the grilling and derivation plant of Succivo, in the Campania region - providing that, until 31 July 2014, the provisions of the Order of the President of the Council of Ministers of 9 May 2012, No 4022, as well as the respective measures, consequent and related to the aforementioned order, the expiry of which, with a similar measure contained in Article 3 of Decree-Law No 43 of 2013, had already been deferred until 31 March 2014. 18.16 (Followed by the ZUANNA). Also in this case we propose that the extension does not stop at 31 July (which is practically the day after tomorrow), but goes on until 30 November 2014, so that, in fact, not only a whole series of existing contracts can be carried out, but that, under the direction of the commissioner, the Municipalities and the Region are also enabled to provide in their own, according to the ordinary mechanisms, for the management of this fundamental collection and purification plant. Let me remind you that we are talking about the plant that manages the purification of the entire North coast of Campania and, in part, also of Basso Lazio. So, we're talking about important interventions. I have to say that, in this case too, at a hearing of the Commission, it was found that, indeed, this commissioning activity has, for the time being, given the results that were hoped for. The costs arising from the measures shall be covered by the resources already provided for the financial cover of the order. An amendment - amendment 3.6 - was adopted in the course of the examination of the Joint Commissions, which proposes to insert a paragraph aimed at providing that the construction of the collection and purification plants of the grilling and derivation plant referred to in this article is carried out in compliance with national and Community rules on waste water and waste management. It may seem like a redundant amendment, but it can be a good way, even for the Senate, to emphasize this fact. Moreover, amendment 3,200 has been approved, aimed to insert an ulterior paragraph where it is previewed that the commissioner delegate to send, at the end of the commissioning assignment, to the Parliament, the Authority for the supervision on the public contracts, to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and to the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports a report on the activities carried out and the accounting reporting and to report, within ninety days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, to the competent parliamentary commissions, on the state of progress of the participations, as well as on the use of the resources. In conclusion, I would like to stress that neither myself nor the other rapporteur and the whole Commission have a particular affection for the administration of the Commission (and not even for the government, I imagine). It must be said, however, that, in this particular case, we have entered into the substance of the activities carried out and that the works have been done as planned, with relatively small costs and also with the satisfaction of the local authorities involved. However, there will be an opportunity in the debate to return to these issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Borioli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u52	Mr President, as my colleague said, I shall focus in particular on Article 2 of the measure, which provides for the completion of road transport works in the province of Avellino, Lioni-Grottaminerda. I shall focus in particular on one point, because, in the course of the examination before the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a, this article was the subject of a proposal for full replacement, as the Commissions considered it appropriate to introduce more rapid and effective procedures to ensure the completion of the works. In this respect, I would also like to thank the representative of the Government who is here, because on this subject we have a thorough cooperation on the issues that have allowed us to arrive at the formulation of an amendment that I will now talk about. The original text of Article 2, as it is written in the decree-law, provides that in the responsibilities of the commissioner ad acta, so far in charge of the works, a coordinator of a special temporary structure established at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, until the completion of the works themselves and in any case no later than 31 December 2015. With respect to this forecast, instead, the Commissions have approved an amendment entirely replacement that extends the task entrusted to the previous commissioner, extending it until 31 December 2016 for reasons similar to those that Senator Dalla Zuanna has illustrated regarding Article 1: the completion in fact of the works of the Lioni-Grottaminerda is previewed concretely for the 2016 forwarded. In order to understand the reasons for this choice and the reason why we have come to propose this replacement amendment, it is necessary to try quickly to frame what is the fast-scrolling axis Lioni-Grottaminerda. The road axis is of fundamental importance within the corridors of transversal connection to the Apennines, in particular by completing the connection between the A3 Salerno-Reggio Calabria, to the junction of Contursi, and the A16 Naples-Bari, to the junction of Grottaminerda. The work has a strategic importance and value of unquestionable meaning to the point that it has been included in the so-called objective law n. 443 of 2001. The work has a total burden for its realization estimated in approximately 430 million euros, of which 290 million already allocated with successive CIPE resolutions. Moreover, it is largely a work that has been carried out and which needs to be completed. The management of this work, as well as of others related to it and still dating back, and pertaining, unlike the Lioni-Grottaminerda, to the process of reconstruction after the 1980 earthquake, was entrusted to a commissioner ad acta, identified in the person, starting from 21 February 2003, by engineer Filippo D'Ambrosio, who worked under the responsibility of the Ministry of productive activities before and the Ministry of Economic Development then. By Article 2, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 150 of 2013 it was proposed that the operating term of the engineer D'Ambrosio, fixed at 31 December 2013, be extended to 31 December 2014. This rule, however, was abolished in the Chamber of Deputies during the conversion process into law of the decree and, therefore, the commissioner officially ceased his office on 28 February 2014. Since then, the management of the construction process of the infrastructure, without prejudice to the practices connected to the performance of the functions of sole head of the procedure (RUP) and of the works already entrusted to the enterprises, for all the accounting and administrative management, has been in a condition of substantial vacatio. For these reasons, during the examination of the draft law, the Commissions have considered to listen to the engineer D'Ambrosio, drawing from his very in-depth reports an evaluation that gives a positive opinion on the results of the management commissioner, exposes the difficulties connected to an extremely complex procedure, in which he also notes the difficulty of accessing the various rivoli that confer to the special accounting the resources necessary for the completion of the work, but also evidences a sound and transparent management that has produced, in the given context, appreciable results. The same Government, in fact, in comparison with the Commission, has considered to highlight that the reasons for proposing the overcoming of the commissioner's management with a coordination structure established at the Ministry were born not from merit assessments on the work of the commissioner and the commissioner's structure, but from a prudence and attention in the management of the institutional relations, being essentially blocked the hypothesis of extension of the commissioner's management for the opposition - as I have previously mentioned - of the Chamber of Deputies. Added to this is the fact that, in replacing the commissioner ad acta with the new structure as proposed within the original text of the decree, they were not included in the functions of the coordinator and the structure attached to it within the Ministry the managements related to the other set of works related to the management of the commissioner, among other things not coinciding with the Lioni-Grottaminerda. In any case, therefore, we would have had a measure that left discovered a significant part of a realization activity that, on the contrary, it is the interest of the country to bring to completion as quickly as possible. For all these reasons, we have decided to propose, in the context of the work carried out by the Commissions, an amendment which - as I have already said - is fully replacing and proposes the management of the Commission by setting a deadline for its expiry on 31 December 2016, thus extending by one year the deadline set in the original text of the decree for the ministerial coordination structure. The same amendment also provides for the obligation for the Commissioner to submit not only to Parliament and its Commissions, but also to the Authority for the supervision of public contracts, regular reports which will sum up the progress of the work and all the documents and documents related to it. In conclusion, I think I can say that, together with the Government, a good job has been done to try above all to give a plant to the norm that allows to bring to completion as quickly as possible a work that - as I said - is important for the whole country, and of course first and foremost for the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u53	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Crosio to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement that we are presenting a preliminary question as we believe that there are profiles of incompatibility with different constitutional rules and constitutional jurisprudence in the Decree-Law under consideration. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court, already in a 1996 judgment, has had the opportunity to make a clear statement on the constitutional legitimacy of the recurrence of unconverted decrees-laws, stating that it harms constitutional prediction in many respects, as well as altering the provisional nature of the decree-law. It also takes away value from the extraordinary nature of necessity and urgency. Therefore, in a nutshell, the extensions envisaged within this decree-law far exceed the limits established by the current text of Law No 225 of 1992 and involve a consolidation of emergency states emerged a few years ago, in fact replacing on a stable basis the ordinary procedures. This removes the value of the extraordinary nature for the purposes of both the continuation of the state of emergency and the existence of the same prerequisites of necessity and urgency, as the reasons already laid on the basis of the declaration of the state of emergency many years back are stabilized in fact and prolonged over time. Therefore, we believe that it is legitimate to present this question, but also that there is all the basis for it to have the vote in favour of the whole House, which will certainly not be lacking. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u55	I put to the vote the question referred by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u56	Mr President, with a procedure that is now unfortunately customary, on whose correctness there would be much to say, the Renzi Government today calls for the conversion of a decree-law which contains rules already rejected by the Chamber of Deputies (in fact, they were already included in the so-called thousandprorogation decree of December). It seems, at first sight, an act due to a series of public works that need to be extended of the police agencies in order to be completed. I say it seems because doubts immediately jump to the eyes. The first of the extensions, for example, concerns the Galleria Pavoncelli, damaged by the earthquake of Irpinia: it is therefore spoken of thirty years ago. The others contain a series of extensions of administrative managements of public works in Campania: the road axis Lioni-Grottaminerda, the collection and purification plants of Acerra, Marcianise, Napoli Nord, Foce Regi Lagni, Cuma, the grilling plant and derivation of Succivo. The first thing I want to stress is how incomplete the decree is, so much so that the Senate Commissions 8a and 13a managed to get an idea of the real situation only after a series of auditions of the protagonists. The same important gaps are highlighted in the report of the Senate Budget Service, of which I quote some parts: "more information should be provided on the amount of remaining resources" and again: "the state of play of the work should be clarified" or "it would seem appropriate to provide information on the overall allocation of resources" and so on. There are no clarifications on the reasons and duration of the extensions, and even if these extensions are final, necessary for the completion of the works. For the Galleria Pavoncelli it is not explained what are the remaining resources, what is the state of progress of the works and especially if with the spending resources it is finally possible to complete the work. For the road axis Lioni-Grottaminerda there is no clarity between the commitments of expenditure already made and those necessary to provide the definitive viability. Finally, it is not clear which entity will operate the system of the listed purification plants and at what cost. There are also further legal implications for the staff involved in the work and the concrete possibility of litigation. There are a number of doubts about the timing, costs and overall legal framework which, in general, concern the entire legislative measure under consideration: the Commissions have proposed further extensions for the works in question and the forecast of reports updating the state of play of the work by Parliament and the Supervisory Authority on public contracts. Mr President, I could continue several minutes by continuing to list the negative aspects of this measure, which seems to be the first Republic and not of our day: resources, waste, Commissioners, sums of money, not certain times. It seems to have come back several decades. At this moment, such measures certainly make the populations suffer. In the end, we will vote in favour as long as we vote, because there is no alternative; however, if we succeed in having, in the following, more clarity, times and certain ways, we will probably be able to give a service to the country and dignity to the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to pay some attention to the organization of our work (I see you particularly restless): for today I will proceed to the conclusion of the general debate, and I will refer the replies of the rapporteurs to tomorrow morning (so that the opinions of the 5th Commission will also be received). As there are no comments, this remains the case. In this way, those who want to go can do so and we continue our work. Let us resume the speeches in general debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u58	Mr President, the Senate Act No 1479, which converts a decree-law into law, which contains urgent measures to extend Commissioners for the completion of public works, is nothing more than a small advance of the thousand-pronged decree that you will propose to us at the end of the year. With this intervention I do not want to make a personal question about the individual Commissioners referred to in the text, I will not go into the substance of how they worked, also because from their hearings in the 8th and 13th Commissions we have noticed how much they are committed to the loneliness to which the State and the Ministries condemn them, if not explicitly contrast them in their action; instead I will make a general political reflection on the extraordinary Commissioners. In fact, an analysis of the role of Commissioner shows that they are appointed to meet urgent or extraordinary tasks in the public administration and that they operate through centralisation or an increase in powers, combined with an action derogating from the laws and procedures in force. They therefore form an extraordinary medium, but governments abuse, abuse, and abuse again. Why is it necessary to operate with extraordinary procedure since 2010 for the seismic vulnerability of Galleria Pavoncelli? It's an ordinary administration now. For many years there has been this problem and in part it is common to other public works. What about road traffic Lioni-Grottaminerda? If we can't guarantee even the road with ordinary procedures, then this state, this government that today demands the extension of commissioners has failed and it's not enough to change the name from commissioner to coordinator in order to solve the problem, also because a temporary structure is created when instead there are already special structures and bodies that could deal with the matter. Among other things, we should also review the concept of temporary: from 2003 to 2014 it is 11 years, it seems to me that it transcends temporaryity! This obviously also applies to the management of collection and purification plants in the Campania region. Essential and basic services such as drinking water and mobility cannot be managed normally, or perhaps they do not want to be managed normally? If there is a problem in the offices and with the staff of the Ministries, it must be solved; if behind these managements there are unclear interests, they must be eradicated. We would have expected this government to make organic solutions and not the buffer of the Commissioner's extensions. Yeah, yeah, so you do, but you do damage, as always. I have said this in the Commission and I will repeat it here in the House: if only with the extraordinary commissioners are able to carry out these works, then let these people hire themselves on a stable footing in place of those officials who, with the ordinary administration, are unable to meet the needs of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u59	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u60	Mr President, we now find ourselves discussing and voting on the extension of the appointment of Commissioners established for the management of critical situations concerning the Apulian aqueduct, the line Lioni-Grottaminerda and a series of purification plants in the Campania Region, but first we are tidying up the legal bases of these appointments. In general, the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner of the Government is regulated mainly by Law No 400 of 1988, which establishes the figure in Article 11, where it is considered that only: "for particular and temporary requirements of operational coordination between government administrations, may proceed to the appointment of extraordinary commissioners of the Government." The first point concerns the extraordinary need for a Commissioner. What's extraordinary about the Galleria Pavoncelli? Perhaps the extraordinaryness lies in the fact that after so many years - or rather decades - the problem of the Pavoncelli Gallery or better of the Pavoncelli- bis is not yet solved? Or, perhaps, in the fact that this special Commissioner is paid a percentage of 0.25 per cent on what he spends? This unique way of paying is stated in the Order of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers No. 3858 of 2010, which appointed this extraordinary figure. Without doing any retrospect, I personally think it is peaceful that the percentage pay on the work carried out is a more appropriate way for the compensation of a condominium administrator than for a figure as important as a government commissioner. I also wonder what considerations have been made, if they have been made, to justify the passing of the four years which had been granted to the Commissioner in the aforementioned order to complete his work. I imagine, in fact, that at the time, that is, in March 2010, the period of four years for the completion of the work was considered reasonable. And that's after the story's been dragging since the '90s. Now, however, an extension of 21 months is considered necessary or, according to some, even 33 months, until December 2016. Despite the words of the speakers, it seems honestly that we are sailing on sight, that we are going to make attempts without having clear if and when the problem of a second tunnel that secures the water supply of an entire region will be solved. In fact, it is this real risk on the lives of hundreds of thousands or perhaps millions of Italian citizens that we are talking about. An amendment to provide Parliament with regular information on the state of play by the Commissioner was also approved in the Commission. Excellent, it looks like. Greater powers of control in Parliament. On the other hand, this information is already provided for in Law No 400 of 1988, but at the head of the President-in-Office of the Council or his Minister. In fact, this requires paragraph 3 of Article 11, which reads as follows: "On the activities of the Extraordinary Commissioner he reports to Parliament the President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him." Not a commissioner. A few comments on the other two legislative measures. For the road Lioni-Grottaminerda is expected to replace the current commissioner with a coordinator with its structure. The need for this change of responsibility escapes if it is not assumed, maliciously, that the costs will rise from 100,000 euros per year in the management of the commissioner to the planned 150,000 euros per year in the new coordination structure. While there is a need to give a concrete answer to the road problems in that area of Avellinese and connecting the two motorways, as has been explained in this House. The question should also be asked whether this type of management is extraordinary, whether it is a commissioner or a coordinator, or the most effective model or whether it is not to be revised. This is also in view of the recent allocation of 220 million euros by the Campania Region for the first batch of this important road artery. Tranchantly said, are we putting this money in good hands? Finally, we come to article 3 of this decree that deals with the cessation of the effectiveness of the order of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 4022 of 2012 (an effectiveness that will end at 31 July 2014), and that is related to the management of the collection and purification plants of Acerra, Marcianise, Naples North, Foce Regi Lagni, Cuma and griding plant and derivations of Succivo. In order No 4022 of 2012 a commissioner was appointed to manage these plants against a non-susistence of the Campania Region linked, I quote, to the lack of a suitable internal technical management structure. On the contrary, I do not deny, I think it is right that the Government should apply its powers as a substitute for non-fulfilling local authorities already provided for in Article 120 of the Constitution. I wonder now why, however, after two years the Campania Region is not yet able to take charge of these plants. Without this answer, further extensions are incomprehensible and inexcusable. In conclusion, I believe that having to examine this type of law is the spy of a bad functioning of the State, and that these continuous extensions represent nothing but palliative, often unjustified. The way to the commissioner is to be considered extreme ratio while all too often we are led to believe that it is a shortcut to solve a problem that does not solve. A State can only be regarded as efficient when it takes ordinary action to deal with the problems facing it day by day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u61	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u62	Mr President, I would like to make a completely different speech from all those who have heard it, but unfortunately we must repeat ourselves, because it is always the old stale things that we have been repeating for years. In fact, this same intervention I have already done, and it is not a déjà vu. The measure contains, once again, emergency stabilisation measures that ensure that between decrees and ordinances, to which from time to time entire sectors are referred, are now entrusted for years to the Government outside all parliamentary control. The power of order, together with the abuse of the decree of urgency, of the legislative delegation and of the question of trust, has become - as the doctrine maintains - the grimaldello through which the Executive can force the stability of the form of government. It is an exemplary case of the conflict between the exercise of sovereignty and respect for the supreme source that that sovereignty bases and limits. The management of emergencies has now brought in our system the adoption of dispensing systems commissioners also for situations determined mainly due to inefficiencies, delays and unforeseenness of the ordinary administrative apparatuses, thus allowing to operate in derogation also in the specific field of the ordinary apparatuses, as in the case of some situations on which the decree intervenes. And of course we are not talking here only about the cases under consideration, but about the Italian practice of ensuring that the delay takes place, it accumulates for failure and administrative sloppiness or for instrumental will in order to justify, determine, authorize the act of derogation and the constitution of a commissioner structure that, outside the rules of third-party controls, puts in the hands of a man only decisions and powers or decisions that all too often lead to inevitable disruption: see the Expo case, but not only. It has been clear for years, at least since the 1990 World Cup, that the Olympic Games, the Expo or any other major event are no longer a great economic or work opportunity, but an opportunity to start the illice, speculation, cement flows, structures never finished, accounts in red. But we bell towers would have been enough only the scam of the twenty years of the garbage station to make us learned of the matter. But let's go back to us. First of all it must be pointed out once again that already with Decree No. 43 we presented an agenda on this topic in which it was said that Law No. 100 of 2012, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 59, had foreseen, among other things, the fixing of the duration of the emergency states, the establishment of rules for the issuing of civil protection orders and the regulation of the sub-introduction of the competent administrations in the ordinary way to the police agencies, in order to bring back the operation of civil protection to the original core, of competences attributed to the founding law, directed mainly to face the calamitous events and to make more effective interventions in the management of real emergencies and not to carry out infrastructure works. The law has provided for the setting of a duration of the emergency state as a rule not exceeding 90 days, extendable or renewable for no more than 60 days, and the termination, in the event of the appointment of delegated commissioners, of their function at the end of the emergency state. The measure in question, on the other hand, contains a further derogation from the prohibition on the extension or renewal of the administrative managements provided for by Decree-Law of 15 May 2012, n. 59. In this regard, it should be noted that during the examination of Decree No 43 of 2013, the members of the Commissions 8a and 13a were stressed provisions derogating from the prohibition of extensions and renewal in an agenda aimed at inviting the Government not to repeat this practice anymore; but that agenda was rejected, and now we understand exactly the reasons. Let's get into it specifically. With reference to the Galleria Pavoncelli, Article 1 brings provisions aimed at ensuring the operational continuity of the commissioner's management established to address the emergency conditions connected to the seismic vulnerability of the tunnel, providing that the aforementioned commissioner's management operates until 31 December 2015. Amendment 1.5 and amendment 1,100 of the Joint Commissions propose to extend the deadline to 31 December 2016. So more realistic than the king. We are limited, as a guarantee, to proposing the amendment 1,200, which inserts a new paragraph, 1-a, which stipulates that the commissioner delegate sends to the Parliament and to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, every six months and at the end of the assignment, a report containing the report on the activities carried out and the accounting report of the expenses incurred in relation to the management commissioner, not only to the Ministry, but also to the Authority for the supervision and to the parliamentary commissions. But they're just palliative, an attempt to return to parliamentary force. We remind ourselves that the administration of the Gallery dates back to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 16 October 1998. The state of emergency in relation to seismic vulnerability was declared until 30 November 2010 by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 6 November 2009. Subsequently, with the order of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2010 a delegated commissioner was appointed for the realization of the works of completion and for the realization of the ulterior infrastructural works, that had nothing to do with the emergency. The management of the Gallery was then extended until March 31, 2014 by decree-law No. 43 of 2013, but this also provided, six months before the end of March 31, 2014, the conclusion of a Programme Agreement, aimed at identifying the competent entity that should have dealt with the overcoming of the critical situation. The Programme Agreement should have been signed between the regions concerned, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and after consulting the Apulian Aqueduct SpA. What happened to him? Among other things, the chronoprogram reported on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure suggests that the extension brought by the decree under consideration will not be the last. Then there is the road Lioni-Gottaminerda. Article 2 replaces the commissioner's management for the completion of the Lioni-Grottaminerda road axis with a Coordinator of a special temporary structure set up at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It seems to us rather that we change the name and not the substance. But the amendment 2.100, proposed by the Contact Committees, replaces the article, restoring until 2016 the Commissioner's management. But for what? For the reconstruction interventions, in the municipalities of the Campania, Basilicata, Puglia and Calabria regions, affected by the seismic events of November 1980 and February 1981. Among the competences of the commissioner's management is also the intervention Lioni-Grottaminerda. These are the interventions provided for in Article 32 of Law No 219 of 1981 (many of our colleagues in the House were not even born). And with this, of course, in no way do we want to question the strategic usefulness of this road axis, but one question is legitimate: what has happened in Italy over the last thirty years to be forced today to a surreal situation of this magnitude? A de quo state that you others are continuing to endorse, to support accomplices. Finally, there is the management of collection facilities. The aforementioned Decree-Law No 43 also dealt with this. It was extended to 31 March 2014, i.e. 12 months, the Civil Protection Order. It was planned that this extension could be reduced if the Region had been able to shorten the time to assume on itself the management of the plants and to proceed to the notices. But this clearly did not happen, indeed the Region requires an additional eight months for the bans. Surely, therefore, this extension to July 2014 will not be enough either. The Joint Commissions are requesting an extension until the end of the year. It will not suffice, even if this commissioner has managed, in two years, to save EUR 10 million and to do good works. So, we're supposed to be in, and we're supposed to be distinguishing one situation from the other? No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. NUGNES (M5S). No, we don't. Why are we going to do this in November? Another decree by which, by way of derogation from the extension ban, we extend? No. All the perverse mechanisms that do not allow us to be part of ordinary management and finally become a normal country must be interrupted! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u63	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree in conversion once again gives us a negative image of our country, with a public administration that runs out, unable to keep up with what society requires, a company for which we should provide services with efficiency and effectiveness, as well as providing adequate infrastructure. The decree, made up of three articles, provides for a number of extensions of Commissioners. With the first, the Commissioner's management of the Galleria Pavoncelli is extended, which brings water resources from the Apulian Aqueduct. Here the emergency management was declared in November 2009 and has since been continuously extended. In the original text of the decree the Government had foreseen the extension to 31 December 2015, then, in the referent, the Commissions gathered 8a and 13a have been able to do better, proposing and obtaining even an extension of the extension until the end of 2016, therefore for another two and a half years. For us this choice is doubly unacceptable: because it repeats the waste of public money implemented in the past by the Apulian Aqueduct with a cheerful management, denounced in recent years several times by the North League, management that has failed to carry out the necessary works for its proper functioning. Our Group has tabled deleterious amendments to the article in order to return to the ordinary procedure, as well as a sub-amendment to the House with which we ask that in the six-monthly report to be sent to the Parliament and the Ministry responsible, in addition to the report on the activities carried out and the accounting of the expenses incurred, the data on the extent of the work still to be carried out be provided, in order to allow the sovereign Parliament to be fully aware of the situation in relation to the implementation of the work. Article 2 deals instead with the completion of the road of the Lioni-Grottaminerda in the province of Avellino. Here the commissioner ad acta, appointed in February 2003 to complete all the infrastructural interventions post-earthquake of the Irpinia of 1980 (so 34 years ago), has ceased last 31 December because the article of decree no. 150 of 2013, the extension term, that previewed the extension to 31 December 2014, has been suppressed in the House in the conversion to law. In this regard, recognizing profiles of constitutional delicacy, the Government considered it appropriate not to exhume the figure of the commissioner, but to replace it with a temporary ministerial structure, coordinated by a manager of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport until the conclusion of the works and in any case no later than 31 December 2015. In short, instead of proceeding in an ordinary way after the closure of the commissioner's structure, the original text of the decree provided for the taking over of another extraordinary structure placed at the Ministry. It would appear the usual case, in which, in order to avoid sending home the staff of an extraordinary structure, an additional extraordinary structure is invented to extend the employment, moreover providing for a charge of 150,000 euros per year, rising compared to that of the previous commissioner structure that was set at 100,000 euros. The question that arises is why this rise in costs, since the staff of the structure had to be made up of employees of the Ministry or at the limit of subjects already belonging to the previous commissioner structure. Did they serve for wage increases? These are questions that the government should provide answers to. As well as the Commission itself should provide information on the overall allocation of resources on the above-mentioned special accounts and the adequacy of these resources for the expenditure commitments undertaken and for the completion of the road. In money, are the resources allocated enough or do we have to beat more cash? Of course, certain articles that appeared following the approval of the decree are not reassuring, which talk about the need for additional, several million euros. Questions, those mentioned on the ministerial structure, which will remain unfinished, since during the examination of the Commissions, as mentioned above, an amendment was approved that restores until 31 December 2016 the commissioner management already expired on 31 December 2013. Of course, the financing of the costs of the structure for an amount of 100,000 per year could not be lacking throughout this period. In essence, as we stated in the rejected preliminary ruling, a constitutional illegitimacy is being carried out because part of a non-converted decree-law is repeated. This is shameful. In fact, after 34 years the commissioner's management of the reconstruction interventions in the municipalities of Campania, Basilicata, Apulia and Calabria was exhumed by the seismic events of November 1980 and February 1981. For us the realization of the work had to continue in ordinary way - just point! - with the Campania Region as a contracting station. With the third and last article it is asked, indeed it is asked seen the modification introduced, the extension until 31 July 2014 of the phase of emergency in the Campania Region and the management commissioner in order to the confidence of the management of the collection and purification plants in the same Region. We do not agree, of course, with the further extension to 30 November 2014, although minimal, granted by Commissions 8a and 13a. In conclusion, we say that the Lega Nord Group is strongly opposed to this measure, which extends the three police structures related to emergencies that, in the past, have presented problems related to the raising of the costs of the works as a result of reservations and evaluations of variants, as well as for the updating of prices. At least we would like to trust that the Government will accept an agenda of ours which commits it to take measures requiring extraordinary commissioners and managers of plant management structures to inform the relevant minister and parliamentary committees of the substance if reservations, or expert opinions of variants, for whatever reason made necessary, exceed 10% of the original amount of the work, in order to assess the taking of any initiatives. In a civil and modern state, state of emergency statements should cover short periods following the event that triggered it. In Italy, however, the emergency is too often stabilized. It is a fact that emergency management, through the adoption of derogations, rather than speeding up the execution of works, in many cases has the opposite effect, i.e. delays its implementation. Therefore, rather than the extension of the commissary regimes, a simplification of the entire system for the implementation of public works should be carried out in order to enable them to be carried out by ordinary means. It is a real hypocrisy, certainly a characteristic that ridicules our country, adopt legislation to define a limit to the extensions of the police agencies and an embankment to the times on the emergency and then inevitably disregard it. I recall, in this regard, the decree-law n. 59 of 2012 of the Government Monti that has, for all the managing commissioners in progress, the prohibition of extension or renewal if not only once and in any case no later than 31 December 2012. I also recall the law establishing the National Civil Protection Service, which provides that the duration of the declaration of the emergency state may not exceed 180 days, which may be extended for no more than 180 more days. In fact, as was intended to be demonstrated, the extensions provided for in the decree in question go far beyond the time limits laid down in Law No 225 of 1992. One last notation. The extension of the three police agencies has a common denominator that we frequently find in the measures that affect emergencies: they are all in the regions of the Mezzogiorno. This applies to the measure on earth on fires and the one on the demolition of abusive works, both in the Campanian territory, or to the various commissioners in the management of the cycle on waste or of the integrated water service, both to mention those affecting the environment, which in those parts is greatly mistreated. This should do much to reflect the ruling class of those territories. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u65	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u66	Mr President, I will use less time than I do, because I believe that on the substance, both in the work of the Commissions and in this beginning of the debate, the picture that emerges is clear. These are three important works, which determine in some cases heavy living conditions for the very fact that they have not been completed and that the populations have not been able to use fundamental services, as happened for example in Campania. My considerations want to refer to something that poorly holds this measure together, that is the fact that we are in a very delicate phase for our country and for the credibility of the fundamental institutions. The reference is to the Expo and the MOSE: let's proceed again with an old method, that everyone struggles to denounce saying that it must change verse, but that it has led to the drama and scandals that emerge from the Expo and the story of the MOSE. While we were discussing, this afternoon in the Commission we did not miss that the President of the Lombardy Region launches a heavy alarm, because he refers to works related to Expo 2015, not of outline but fundamental. According to the President of Lombardy there is a high risk that they will not be realized, endangering an event recognized by everyone as fundamental for our country. We are at the stage in which there are announcements of epochal reforms, but there is the continuation of absolutely old practices, which make us absolutely incredible, not only abroad but towards our own citizens, compared to the possibility that a virtuous path will start. Epochal reforms and old practices; emergent procedures, when these refer to events, as has been mentioned, decades and decades ago are the 1980 earthquake, just to give an example. The announcements are to put hand to the procurement code, to undertake transparent, verifiable paths, even giving us instruments of greater attention and control: instead we fall back. I admit a personal limit: I did not understand in this sense the often positive action carried out by the Commissions (in this case the combined ones), even to increase the level of extension of the proposed commissioners or co-ordinations, compared to the same proposal of the Government. I believe that all of us, but above all the forces of the majority, have been given an opportunity here to give coherence and implementation to the commitments and the desire to change pace, thus putting in place an ordinary capacity for government. Indeed, it is quite clear that, when there are situations in which the territories alone cannot cope, a strong intervention by the State is certainly necessary. It is not that there is a desire on the part of the opposition not to face up to these situations. However, it is necessary to identify those tools that allow us to deal with and, together, to solve the problem, to carry out the necessary works and to create the conditions for local institutions, actors and actors operating on the territory to have the opportunity to arrive at a permanent government of certain policies and conditions. This is the real emergency of our country, and on this we must intervene: overcome the condition of emergency and extraordinary when this is no longer justifiable, not only from the temporal point of view (but first of all). This would really be an extraordinary fact which would find, as far as we are concerned, our total agreement. I believe that the risk is to miss an opportunity - also compared to observations that had been developed in the Chamber of Deputies - and to give a negative example of what we all say over the next few days and weeks we want to do with reference to the dramatic events that emerged with Expo 2015 and the issue of MOSE. We are always in time for a proper change of pace, but we must do so, and not just announce it, starting with the seats, and therefore on occasions like this, taking concrete steps in this direction already from the Commissions and from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u67	Senator Cioffi is a member of the Committee, who will present the agenda for G101 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking primarily to explain the G101 agenda, which I have tabled with other colleagues from my group, and which we will perhaps come back to tomorrow when we vote on this measure. The agenda I am referring to is essentially intended to commit the Government to avoiding further recourse to extensions and derogations, which seems to me to be very common sense. I would therefore like to invite the Secretary-General to read this agenda, so that perhaps tomorrow - hopefully - he can give us a positive opinion: an agenda is not really worth much (even if we always hope that it will help something, otherwise we would not present any more). What we are talking about is well known. As we know, we have made a provision for which there should be no extension beyond ninety days, which can only be repeated once for sixty days. The reference here is to three events, for the truth is very bells, among which, first of all, that of the Galleria Pavoncelli, which, if I am not mistaken, was a work of the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno: for those who remember it, we are talking about a very old thing. Since we have reached the stage of the contract, we do not understand why we cannot get out of this commissionerial management. On the other hand, we could safely return to ordinary management. With regard to Law No 219 of 1981 (for those who, poor Campania, lived that experience), I remember the experience of the 20,000 billion lire, which was spent as they were spent. Just to say one (but we could mention many), I remember a sewer pipe that had to connect the industrial area of Buccino (a very large industrial area and currently empty) with a purifier that had to be between Battipaglia and Eboli. This purifier was realized, and never entered into operation. To complete the work, we did one next door, adjacent, that doesn't even work. This is Law 219. That tube cost 70 billion. We spent 70 billion to make a "caccodotto". It seems to me that law 219 is an ancient story. As for the tragedy of the purification plants managed by the Campania Region, it should be understood who had that management before and how he managed it. The Commissioner told us that he had made a report to the Court of Auditors. We hope that the Court of Auditors will take action, because it is not conceivable that the cost of disposing of sludge from a sewage treatment plant (these are a bit technical, but they are numbers) has been estimated at EUR 160 per cubic metre with the old management, while the Commissioner has managed to reduce it to 105. The Commissioner should be applauded and be beaten to the head by those who used to run it. The agenda says: enough with this written management. We hope that the Government will not only accept him, but then act really and concretely: in fact, if it welcomes him and then does not act it will not help anything. We know that there is no point in an agenda, but perhaps it is a way of saying: because there has been an approved agenda, we are not doing this anymore. I'm not talking about Expo and MOSE. Maybe we'll talk about it tomorrow, when there's more people and maybe we'll listen more. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u70	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Decree-Law No 73 in conversion would be - perhaps rightly so - another extension in a country of endemic extensions. It has all the air: it lends the side to the vulgate that would like everything to be assimilated to a regime of extensions ad libitum, of delays of terms, of referrals umpteenth, of situations procrastinated. There is nothing more definitive in Italy - says Ennio Flaiano with compassionate satire - than provisionality, that is, indeterminateness, precariousness. The extension of the commissionary functions for the completion of the public works we are dealing with today is therefore part of this practice and even represents its paradigm. The Galleria Pavoncelli, the works of environmental rehabilitation, the road axis Lioni-Grottaminerda, the reconstruction interventions in the municipalities of Campania, Molise, Basilicata and Puglia affected by the earthquakes of November 1980 and February 1981 are all indicated as emblematic of a precarious Italy, almost the materialization of the concept of liquidity and liquid society formulated by sociologist Zygmunt Bauman. I would venture to draw close to the contribution that our country, with its remarkable contradictions, its chiaroscuri, the thousand extensions, has given and continues to give to the affirmation of the sociology of liquidity: everything is liquid and seems to parody Heraclitus with its "everything flows", "panta rei". Well, the extension regime can and must be terminated. The habitus and the inclination to the extension of the intense activities in order to realize the infrastructures constitute a heavy chain at the foot of a Country - our - that pays dearly the inability to complete the public works, although necessary for its development, increasing the indebtedness, the inefficiency and the delays and alienating the internal and global investors. Corruption and amorality, then, make it a permanent Gomorrah place. All this in the face of excellence, good practice, excellent performance in the fields of public works, as well as in other areas, cultural, costume, agro-food, food, fashion, new technologies, new materials, electro-mechanical, studies and art. Therefore, public works must be brought back to the virtuous path. How? With certain times of execution, maximum vigilance, simplification of procedures, contracting stations that are to be rewarded by the State, the European Union, the Regions granting derogations from the limits of expenditure and the Internal Stability Pact if the same contracting stations favor and put in field useful for the pursuit of correctness, speed, reporting and testing. The decree-law was the subject of amendments and agendas. With regard to the construction of the Pavoncelli-a water tunnel, what constitutes a novelty that characterizes and motivates the extension to 31 December 2015 (but I consider more reasonable the amending proposal to fix the deadline to 31 December 2016 in order to avoid further requests for extension) is the periodicization of the reports on the state of progress of the intense activities near the Parliament. The Chambers, that is, will have to be made aware of the various steps of the progresses in the yards and of the forecasts of closing them. The works in question are strategic. Think of the importance of Pavoncelli- bis: if in the meantime a calamitous event were to damage the old tunnel that for a century has brought the water of the Sele river to hundreds of communities of Lucania and Puglia, the failure of the works on Pavoncelli -bis would deny the drinking supply to about one and a half million people. It would be a hiattura, a sunset of civilizations, a thunder in the centuries-old expectations of the Mezzogiorno. We therefore welcome the introduction of information in the Chamber and the Senate so that greater responsibility may be given to the recovery of the seriousness and credibility of the works and of the State. Finally, we hope for a resolution in the planning and implementation of infrastructure works in Italy without hesitation or escamotage, with the full competition of the entrepreneurial, social and institutional actors. It is the duty of politics, senators and senators. It's our commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u71	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the debate in this House on this matter. My colleagues Mr Cioffi and Mr Scibona have argued that this issue has aroused a strong interest - SEL's colleague mentioned this - in the Commissions meeting, while this was one of those decree-laws that could easily pass as a due act and, therefore, proceed to the conclusion. I believe that we should give credit - as my colleague Mr Scibona rightly said - to our colleagues who are part of these two Commissions for their fruitful attention to the reports which have been brought to their attention by the three Commissioners and their structures. I think we've all learned a lot. On the one hand, we were irritated, ashamed - each of us uses the term he thinks most appropriate - to feel that we are in the background discussing two interventions somewhat following the earthquake of 1980-1981, and therefore dating back well over thirty years ago; on the other hand, we must also say that the three Commissioners who succeeded each other distinguished themselves for the clarity of the expression but also for the passion they put in the context of the work assigned to them and for the willingness to make available to the Senate Commissions all the data relating to their management, in some way aware. Moreover, the three managements by the competent ministries themselves, the supervisory authorities and the local authorities see and have seen the intervention of the commissioners in the three works which, in reality, are a myriad of works matured in the territory. However, we had the precise feeling that one thing should not be done: many of us - perhaps all of us, but certainly most of us - had the precise feeling that we had used an instrument in some cases obliged, but certainly inadequate from the point of view of a country's democracy, when the extraordinary commissioner repeated himself with certain durations and frequencies. I would like to mention a few facts which have been the subject of the hearings. I would like to take as an example the Galleria Pavoncelli, to which I have heard a number of comments in the debate in this House. It should be said that the 2001 legislation, which led to the management of this tunnel through the Commissioner, was one of the first promoted by the Berlusconi Government and concerned the strategic infrastructure programme (see Law No. 443 of 2001). I am struck by the fact that some Members are surprised at the way in which this has been done. On the contrary, I am very happy to understand that an era has ended for all and that we intend to move forward with ordinary methods of transparency and clear and clear mechanisms, so as to understand that there is competition and also with the possibility for the Authority of public works to analyze and - why not? - to monitor the situation of the intervention in situ. But - alive God - you can't throw the baby away with dirty water. Someone, rightly seen, explains how it was carried out with 1,270 decrees, for example, on the Galleria Pavoncelli. They are all commercial interventions that, over the years, among other things, have basically led to continuous poor maintenance, to the point that that gallery was again collapsing. The Commissioner himself informed us, for example, that, in the context of the works relating to the Irpinia earthquake law (earthquake that also affected Puglia and Basilicata), fortunately after thirty years only two small works in Basilicata are still to be completed. But he also informed us that it would be absurd to think of interrupting this police station now, place (and here it really comes from smiling not to cry) that the contracts we have concluded (for example the one related to the Lioni-Grottaminerda) end in 2016. Now, to have a Commissioner complete at 31 December 2013, to suspend him until June of this year, and then to proceed with another coordination - we have defined it this way - until 2015, when the outstanding contracts last until 2016, is not serious. What we intended to do as members of the two Commissions was precisely to try to understand and evaluate as objectively as possible the work of the Commissioners' structures. We were very pleased - it has also been recalled in other interventions - that for example, with reference to Article 3, which concerns those purifiers put in charge of extraordinary management, there is a saving, going from 5.5 million euros per month expected to 3.8 million euros per month expected. In addition, the Commissioner has a burden of EUR 4,700 per month, which is therefore an absolutely acceptable and correct figure. I believe that in many respects what we are doing is not just a due act because we have to conclude these interventions. I would point out that, as the Commissioner has pointed out (and I have no reason to doubt this), the contract is already under way. The management, that moreover will be concluded on 31 December 2014 according to the extension that we have intended to give for safety of ulterior six months, should see its natural conclusion to the delivery of the purifiers (it is hoped that there are no other obstacles in the management of the Campania Region of the contract and the call for tenders) in the hands of the society, I do not know if public, public-private or even private, that it will manage the service of purification. We hope that this management will be carried out at even lower costs, since we are competing, compared to those already reduced, put in place by the extraordinary Commissioner; we also hope that, as happens in all the countries of the world and in large part also in ours, purification can fall into nothing other than the integrated water service, managed according to criteria of efficiency and public effectiveness, as Italy is certainly able to do. All of this, as was rightly pointed out by the rapporteurs for the measure, was intended to propose an amendment to Article 2, with amendment 2,100 which I consider to be important. In fact, Mr Undersecretary, we believe that there is an obligation that concerns the Government and the parliamentary committees which are dealing with it and which intend to continue to deal with it: I would remind you that among the different wishes we have expressed with the amendments tabled there is also a systematic analysis of the accounts, the reporting of the work in progress and the activities carried out. I conclude with the concept of responsibility, for which we have been led to believe that it is important that there is the same responsible hand to guide the natural conclusion of the work. I repeat that one will expire on 31 December 2014, and there is no reason to think that there will be further extensions; the other two works will expire by 31 December 2016, as foreseen by the current contracts. We intend to verify every six months all matters relating to the conduct of the work and accounting. There have been no more burdens, nor are we having more burdens: this news is already positive in itself because, on the other hand, up to now it has certainly been watered down and, when the extensions have been decided, the current value has also increased. It seems to me that we have found people who want to take on this responsibility and who therefore deserve our ultimate and ultimate confidence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u72	The general debate is closed. As already anticipated, the replicas will take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. I therefore refer the following to the debate on the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u75	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak about the business crisis of the Brambilla Trafilerie, a historic calolziese company in the province of Lecco, for which I presented a question on Friday 6 June to the Minister of Labour Poletti and to my colleague Guidi, Minister of Economic Development, on 4-02292. In fact, on 9 April I had already submitted to the Ministers themselves a first question, the 4-02027, but without getting an answer in these two months. Trafilerie Brambilla is a leading company - or at least it has been up to last year - in the machining of carbon steel drawn, which up to a year ago counted 95 employees, today decreased to 75. This company has entered into a financial crisis, also as a result of the decline in the market. At first it activated a solidarity contract for employees; then, in the context of the liquidation decision, it activated the extraordinary earnings fund. At the beginning of April, the company received a purchase offer from a Turkish company belonging to the Dogan group (a group listed on the Istanbul Stock Exchange), which presented an industrial plan and started trade union negotiations. Too bad that in the last fifteen days such trade union negotiations have been abandoned by the acquiring company, which has initiated a procedure, in my view, immoral, aimed at putting workers against each other. In practice, 52 out of the 75 workers are offered a unilateral proposal of the kind to take or leave, which involves a reduction of the salary of 30 percent and complete zeroing of any pay, individual or collective treatment, matured over the years. For the other 23 workers, also fathers of the family, there is the spectre of dismissal. It is for this reason that I have allowed myself to make this speech at the end of the sitting and to recall the urgency of the Ministers questioned to possibly activate a consultation table with the acquiring company, the transferor company, the trade unions and also the Region in order to arrive at a solution to meet the needs of society and that of workers. Finally, I would like to make a remark to say that the deep economic crisis that is affecting our country, with truly record unemployment rates, is leading several companies in crisis to be land of conquest by foreign subjects who, feeling stronger and stronger, impose conditions on their heads, therefore reduced wages against which, with the spectre of unemployment, the workers themselves can do nothing but sign. These are worrying situations that will increasingly occur in the future, and compared to them I think I can say that the government is doing little to avoid them: the taxes remain high, the bureaucracy remains, the cost of energy remains high, unemployment increases more and more. I shall conclude by renewing the invitation to the Ministers questioned to follow up and respond positively to the questions put.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u78	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, it may be that something similar happened last year, but this is a special year because the 200th anniversary of the founding of the Carabinieri weapon occurs: we saw solemn ceremonies in Rome, and Monday in all the provinces of Italy there was the ritual ceremony in which the commander of the Carabinieri, as before him had done the representative of the Ministry of the Interior on the occasion of the Feast of the Police, illustrated the situation of public order, the infiltration of the mob, the operations made, the problems of drugs, of crime, of pickpocketing. I have some parliamentary experience, and I have always participated with great pleasure in these ceremonies, because they are a moment of encounter between important institutions (the State Police and the Carabinieri) and representatives of the people (senators and MPs). To my surprise on Tuesday morning I found in the newspapers a report on my city about the meeting of the previous day, held in the presence of the mayors, who had been invited, and the local authorities. Of course, even with a bit of embarrassment, because on Monday afternoon I was in Modena and I was walking around the center in conjunction with this ceremony. The first thing that came to mind is: I must have missed the invitation for the national ceremony; I must have missed the invitation for the regional one; my secretariat will have lost the invitation for the provincial one. I looked into it, and instead the General Command of the Army and the State Police decided not to invite parliamentarians to this kind of meeting. I didn't quite understand if the reason would be the spending review, but there are no refreshments, so there was no expense towards the people who intervened. I would like to understand why institutionally mayors are invited, who are also important on the territory, because the Republic is made up of municipalities, provinces, regions and states, and therefore they also have a representation. I would like to understand whether this was an initiative of the General Command of the Armed Forces and the State Police or whether any Minister has given any suggestions. Today President Boldrini, on the anniversary of the murder of Mr Matteotti, has made a heartfelt appeal not to delegitimise Parliament, because of the fundamental importance in democracy of the seat of popular sovereignty. Well, representatives of popular sovereignty are not invited, they are excluded from significant moments in the territory by those who perform important roles and functions. I do not know who made this decision, but he will escape that it is Parliament that makes the laws. Perhaps he will escape that next week we will have to discuss corruption, self-laundering, fraud in the budget, and that we have already talked about the crime of torture, that is, matters directly affecting the law enforcement authorities. Do we have to read in the newspapers the account of what the commanders, quaestors and colonels said when we talk about public order issues in our provinces? Tomorrow I will present an act of inspection union on this subject. I am going to advance it this evening, because what has happened is an offense, not so much to the senators and Members, but to the institutions and to Parliament itself, and it has been an unacceptable and unacceptable choice, which can no longer be repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-258.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.41 p.m.
