ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u3	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Home Affairs: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 2 of 16 January 2014 extending the international missions of the armed forces and police, development cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes and participation in the initiatives of international organisations for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes" (1248).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u4	The next item is the question and question. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00076 on the disputes during a conference on homophobia and gender protection in Casale Monferrato. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u5	Mr President, in Casale Monferrato, on 22 September 2013 - or should it have been, given that there was some difficulty - the conference entitled 'Gender, homophobia, transphobia: towards the abolition of man' was held. It was an initiative organized by the Movement for Life, the Catholic Alliance and Communion and Liberation, with the patronage of the Pastoral Care of Health and Social Pastoral Care of the Diocese of Casale Monferrato. As is well known, those who should have held this confrontation (the lawyer Giorgio Razeto, exponent of the Association Juristi per la Vita, and Professor Mauro Ronco, ordinary of criminal law at the University of Padua and professor of criminal law at the European University of Rome) were made the subject of an ignoble, violent and shameful attack by some protesters. It was a gazzarra made by activists of gay rights movements, including the Turin Pride LGBT coordination, the AlterEva collective and the Arcigay association. Next Sunday there will be a round table in Florence, but also in this case there will be an event. They're pronouncing counter-manifestations. Some people even asked the mayor of Florence to deny a public room for a civil round table that deepens this type of topic. All this happens in an aggressive context, which is justified by recalling that emergency in Italy, which would be a homophobic country, in which those who have sexual orientations of a certain type are made the subject of continuous aggressions, insults, with the phenomenon of suicides and everything else every day is propaganda. Now, as the Undersecretary will know, we in the Justice Commission have transposed two documents during the debate on the homophobia law which would introduce into our law a crime of opinion compared to those who do not agree, for example, with gay marriage or the adoption of children by gay couples, a specific crime that differentiates behavior if you hit a heterosexual person compared to a homosexual or, according to an amendment accepted today by the rapporteur, even the perceived homosexuality. And there would also be a process of reeducation for those who think differently. All this would happen in the name of this emergency. We have acquired data from ISTAT in the Commission which show that Italy is one of the least homophobic countries in the world, in which the population has a tolerant attitude towards these phenomena. After all, just Sunday in Rome there was an event of the French association La Manif Pour Tous, which participated, intervening and achieving an extraordinary success, a French homosexual declared. He declared himself homosexual; he lives with another man and is proud of his homosexuality, but he simply does not call himself gay. He says he is homosexual, to live with a man, but believes that marriage is between man and woman and that a child has the right to have a father and a mother. He is a homosexual who spoke and was applauded by everyone. He has his own opinion, which may also conflict with those of the most radical associations of gay movements. We have acquired this document which shows that there is no such attitude in Italy. But there is more. After insistence - I must thank the Ministry of the Interior - we have been given an official document of the Observatory for the safety against discriminatory acts (OSCAD) incardinated within the Department of Public Security - Central direction of the criminal police, an interforce body composed of representatives of the State Police and the Carabinieri. Well, since September 2010, OSCAD has been monitoring all reports - I'm not talking about complaints - for alleged discriminatory crimes motivated by ethnic, racial, religious belief, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, language, and so on. Therefore, in three years of activity of the observatory they have received to the OSCAD, regarding the world of transsexuals, homosexuals, transgenders and so on, 83 reports, that is an average of 20 per year, detailed, concerning offenses, aggressions, injuries, incitement to violence, damages, cases of suicide and threats, regarding sexual orientation. I repeat, 83 reports have been received in three years. I am thinking, however, of the data on the murders, violence and stalking of women: there are about 100-120 murders a year and tens of thousands of cases of violence against women. In this case, official sources of the Ministry of the Interior detect 83 cases. As I know (I also wrote it), I'm not surprised. In the newspapers, large columns, the news of a barber, in Sicily, who with his companion was dilated and offended, so much so that he had to leave the resort where he was on vacation. As you know, then it turned out that the lawyer Canzona (the one who enjoys making fun of the entire Italian press) had invented the case. I also mention the news of the school burned in Rome because it is at the forefront against homophobia. Five days later they fished three flunked students: for a stunt they ran out of hand, they had burned the school. Even recently, a boy's suicide was announced in the Republic, and I went into the news (I also turned to the person who wrote it) and verified that the report was absolutely not true: it was a boy with drug addiction problems and imbalance. Homosexuality had absolutely nothing to do with it. Therefore, having repeatedly pointed out that those who had been presented as cases of homophobia were actually destitute of every foundation, I wanted to understand better, Mr Undersecretary, these aggressions, this aggression, this going to challenge others, this taunting of homophobia anyone, even Barilla, who in his advertising, to sell his products (the line is called White Mill), represents a family constituted by father, mother and children. Barilla explained what her company's target is. Then everyone is free to do the advertising they want and to buy the pasta they want. Barilla, however, took some idiot from the well-known singer Vecchioni and had to make a humiliating self-criticism. I would point out that, in the interview, Barilla said she was in favour of homosexual marriages. Now he's had to hire a manager, an American guru, who has to build him man-man, woman-woman commercials and so on. I repeat, all attitudes of aggression, with which we treat everyone as homophobia who thinks differently from gay militant movements, are built on this emergency, which however absolutely does not exist. I would point out that my concern is not so much about legislation, which can be guided. We are in a democratic country! Parliament may decide to do so, provided that it changes the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has established very clearly that, as long as this Constitution is in force, the family is recognized as a natural society founded on marriage between a man and a woman. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court wrote that one cannot give an interpretation that is so subversive as to change the Constitution. It is like when the Constitution speaks of the protection of the working mother: while having all the fantasy of the world, it cannot be said that where it is written "mother" is meant "father". However, it is absolutely legitimate to change the Constitution. If there is a majority in Parliament that wants to get to gay marriage, we will get to it; if there is a majority in Parliament that wants the womb to rent, then we will get to it; if there is a majority in Parliament that wants the adoption of children by homosexual couples (although 70% of Italians are against it), then we will get to it. It is very different, however, if you want to make laws according to which those who think like me take two years in prison, four years if you are part of an association that thinks like me or six years if you are the manager of one of these associations. For example, the Catholic Church has its own orientation of doctrine with regard to these cases. So, on the one hand, there are criminal sanctions for those who think otherwise and, on the other, attitudes of violence. Then we will also be able to discuss - and I pre-announce to the Undersecretary that I have submitted another question - the other body set up by the Presidency of the Council, which published on the Council Presidency website 10 points for information operators, a kind of MINCULPOP, in which it is said that no terms such as uterus for rent, sterile couple, normal couple, and another document addressed to the school, in which teachers are given a whole series of indications. I say this because this organism, which is called UNAR, is completely illegitimate. My Government instituted it, when I was Minister, by implementing a European directive, Mr. Undersecretary. It was born and, by law, was established to ensure equal treatment and the removal of discrimination based on race and ethnic origin (I stress), and must be impartial: it must operate in full autonomy of judgment and in conditions of impartiality. Well, it is so unbiased that, with a directorial directive, this Office last year, with a decree of 20 November, constituted a consultation formed by 29 associations that group Italian homosexuals: Arcigay, Chimera rainbow, IREOS, Arcilesbica, etc. (in the question you can read them all 29). These documents are the result of the joint work of this body with gay associations. There is only one small problem: that this body has no competence in the matter, except for a circular by Minister Fornero who, last year, when he was in the government, extended the competence also to this matter: illegitimate. It is not in the founding law, it does not seem to me that homosexuality is something concerning race or ethnic origin (at least I do not believe: I have never thought of it and I do not think of it even today); there is a problem of the Court of Auditors, but above all the problem of what these documents drawn up by gay associations do to us on the website of the Presidency of the Council. Then, Mr. Undersecretary, you see the combined disposition of the law that wants to punish as a crime the opinion about this type of case, of these initiatives that are put on the website of the Government with the attempt to seriously affect the freedom of the press, as pointed out authoritatively also on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), and of the attempt of violent intimidation that takes place against those who in the country rightly want to raise this debate and above all inform the public about what is happening also poses a problem of public order. Here we have an authoritative representative of the Government, the Deputy Minister Bubbico, who is listening to me, who I believe can give a reassuring response, starting on Sunday, when the Association of Sentinels will make a demonstration in the square, pluralistic and open, in which heterosexuals and homosexuals will participate, people of all orientations, who however feel that they hold firm some constitutional principles. There will then be a round table where, also here at the level of knowledge and in-depth analysis of the problems, these topics will be addressed. I must say that I am very concerned because it is enough to read the agencies: there are already attempts to boycott these initiatives and it turns out that the public authorities intervene to prevent them (as if there were no freedom to express an opinion in our country). The matter is not trivial. You know that the legislation that introduced gay marriage in France has brought things to the point that today those who travel on the street in that country with the T-shirt with the symbol La Manif Pour Tous, who wear stylized a father, a mother and two children, are arrested, because they consider it a provocative and discriminatory attitude. [[Senator Albano's comments.]] I see some colleagues shaking their heads. It seemed incredible to me, too. It seems incredible to me today to hear in the Commission that we are voting in favour of amendments to the law against homophobia which provide that those who think like me should even be re-educated: are we doing re-education in China or Italy? Can I not think, as the Constitution provides, that a child is entitled to a father and a mother? Do I have to be shot criminally because I think this? That's exactly what the mechanism is. I remember working on the Mancino law, and that this law, from my point of view rightly, as regards race and religion, provides that those who claim to promote discrimination for which a white and a black should not and cannot marry among themselves, are struck by the sanctions provided for there, because it discriminates on the basis of race. Those who say that a Jew and a Catholic cannot marry or adopt children are struck by the Mancino law because it discriminates against religion. As homophobia and transphobia are added, exactly the same is true. Anyone who propaganda or supports discrimination, i.e. that men and women can marry while men and men do not, comes under the Mancino law. Moreover, Mr Scalfarotto has publicly stated in the interviews that his purpose is precisely to strike the right of opinion. It is therefore evident that this is the mother of all battles. If the order strikes as a crime, with punishment and even with reeducation, who thinks in a certain way, then the protesters who want to prevent by force these manifestations anticipate an orientation that, in some way, is already present in the order. On this I do not know what will happen, but what I am asking the government today is a reassurance, that in a free and democratic country there is room for everyone to express themselves. Be careful, I am not talking about violence, insults or insults: I am talking about full and absolute respect for all sexual orientation. There would be no need for anyone to make judgments about people's way of life. You know that a year and a half ago the funeral of Lucio Dalla, a practicing Catholic, was held in Bologna. A famous journalist attacked him by saying he was a hypocrite because she hadn't made a public complaint about his situation. In Bologna, his friends wrote about the "Corriere della Sera" and the "Resto del Carlino" of Bologna. True, there was a gentleman in the church, whose name is Marco Alemanno, with whom I don't know what relationship he had. As his friends pointed out, Alemanno was in church with a lady who was with him. Then, whether Alemanno was with this lady or Lucio Dalla, it's your business. We know a lot of decent gay or lesbian people who live their lives, like heterosexuals, and they don't always think like my friend Grillini or like my friend Concia. Because there are also so many homosexuals who think differently from the Concia and Grillini, who do not think like that person who intervened in the square the other day on marriage, adoption, on the uterus for rent; homosexuals who believe that buying the factors of reproduction by two men to assemble a child, who buy a child and the pieces on the market, perhaps doing the gestation in India, from those poor women forced to do the gestation for the rich of the West, is not a progressive thing, but instead something that harms the right of the child to have a father and a mother. So there is absolutely no homophobic attitude at all. All they ask is that the government guarantee that they will be able to deal freely with the debate that will take place in the country and in Parliament in full freedom and without being intimidated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u6	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u7	Mr President, last September 22nd, as Senator Giovanardi recalled, a conference was held in Casale Monferrato, at the Auditorium San Filippo, promoted by the Movement for Life, Communion and Liberation and by the Catholic Alliance, with the participation of about 150 people. As has been recalled, the intervention of disturbance of the conference, implemented by protesters of opinion contrary to that of the organizers on the delicate themes of sexual identity and homophobia, was staged outside the conference room, with distribution of leaflets in the instant Piazza dello Statuto, and continued also inside, in plateal forms, causing the organizers to interrupt the work of the conference. The intervention of the police forces, aimed at preventing the dispute from further degenerating with danger to public safety, was arranged and implemented as quickly as possible, despite the fact that the public security authority had learned of the counter-manifestation only on the same morning of the 22nd and, therefore, well beyond the deadlines laid down by the law for formal notice. The unexpected and high number of protesters intervened compared to that only informally indicated by the protesters then made it necessary to strengthen the surveillance device by sending two patrols of the local company of the Carabinieri. The dispute, although heated, has not been characterized by physical violence and it does not appear that it has been reported to the judicial authority in relation to the events. The police of Alexandria has carried out investigations however and has transmitted to the prosecutor of the Republic the communication of news of crime in relation to the violation of the obligation of notice, previewed from Article 18 of the Single Text of the laws of public security. The facts set out in the police report are still under the scrutiny of the judicial authority. The episode of Casale Monferrato must, however, lead to a serious reflection on the values of tolerance and the need that even more open diversity of opinions never become a reason for violent opposition and superffactory. In this regard, I assure you that the commitment of the Forces of Order is constantly aimed at ensuring the exercise of the fundamental rights of citizens, constitutionally defined, such as the right to meet peacefully and to freely manifest their thoughts, as well as the safeguarding - even with the necessary preventive actions - of the conditions necessary for peaceful civil and political coexistence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u10	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Bubbico for his answer, which I consider to be complete and comprehensive, partly because it confirms, unfortunately, the news in relation to which we have asked for further consideration with the questioning presented. I take the opportunity to recall the recent and equally condemnable episodes that have concerned: Professor Panebianco in Bologna for issues not related to homophobia, but related to immigration; Minister Kyenge, my fellow citizen and landowner, for the civil disputes of which he is victim and, last (and protagonists of this case) lawyer Giorgio Razeto, exponent of the Juristi association for life, and Professor Mauro Ronco. Who knows by law that Mauro Ronco is a dean of professors of criminal law. So, it wasn't a boy manifestation. There were illustrious lawyers who tried to justify and explain, from a legal point of view, their legitimate position. Hence the gravity of the episode. There was no provocation. This, except that we do not think - and I say this to the Government, which has returned to the House today - to endorse concepts of homophobia, transphobia or gender, on which criminal law is built, which respond to definitions of the type: The gender is what one feels to be, even if it's different: If a man feels that he is a woman or a woman who feels that he is a man. Today came out the concept of perceived homosexuality. I believe that in this way we are putting ourselves, even from the point of view of criminal law, on a gruesome plan. The magistrates will be faced with complaints concerning situations of this kind for which, moreover, the orientation of a person must be determined. In fact, it will no longer be a question of deciding on a murder, an assault, a crime, which are serious crimes (with aggravating crimes you can get to life imprisonment), in any case, which affect a human being. In that case, the judge will have to determine the degree of the penalty and of the crime depending on the orientation of the person being attacked or the direction, changing, of the person being attacked. Honestly, it does not seem to me a great step forward in Italian legal science and Italian criminal law. But these are things we're going to discuss. I repeat: I consider the answer of the Ministry exhaustive and correct, also from the point of view of the reconstruction of the facts, which, I realize, were difficult to avoid. In fact, if a demonstration or a debate is announced in time and those who dispute them suddenly appear on the site of the event. I also understand the difficulties of the Forces of Order in intervening. In the end, the only result is that, precisely in order to avoid more serious facts, the debate cannot be held and must be cancelled, what I imagine then is the objective of those who go to the place to contest it, that is to deny freedom of speech and opinion. As things are going to be said, since there are signs of this kind - and I am also referring to Sunday - I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior if he is going to take action to ensure safety on these occasions, both when the demonstration takes place in the square and when it takes place indoors, so that we can discuss these problems quietly and serenely. It is constitutionally guaranteed, in fact, for every citizen and for every association to be able to freely express their thoughts in this country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u11	Question 3 00026 on the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u12	Mr President, Senator Pinotti, with the parliamentary act 3-00026, asks the Government what initiatives it intends to take to ensure the financial coverage of social shock absorbers by way of derogation for the year 2013. In this regard, I recall that the Government, in view of the continuing employment crisis and the related need to ensure adequate protection of workers' income, has shown, since its establishment, the maximum commitment to ensure also for 2013 the availability of the financial resources necessary for the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. In this sense, some decree-laws have been approved (No. 54 of 2013, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 85 of 2013, No. 63 of 2013, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 90 of 2013 and, last, No. 102 of 2013, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 124 of 2013) that have allowed to supplement the resources allocated by Article 2, paragraph 65, of Law No. 92 of 2012 (equal to approximately 1 billion euro for the 2013-2014 period), as well as the available resources, pursuant to the Stability Act for 2013, following the reprogramming of the programmes co-financed by the Community Structural Funds 2007-2013, subject to the Action Plan and Cohesion. Therefore, for the year 2013, the total amount of €2,205 billion was allocated to social shock absorbers by way of derogation, plus € 287 million for the aforementioned Action and Cohesion Plan to be allocated to the four Regions of Objective Convergence (Campania, Puglia, Calabria and Sicily). In particular, €1.830 billion was allocated to the Regions and Autonomous Provinces for regional agreements and €170 million for the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation from the competence of the year 2012. I would like to remind you that, in agreement with the Regions, the negative balances for 2012, amounting to 170 million, have been covered with the resources made available for 2013. In this way, it is clear that this negative balance of 170 million, which was a sum of the balances of the individual regions, saw some with surpluses and others with deficits. On the other hand, it was also a decision of the same Regions to proceed in this way, certainly penalising those who at the end of 2012 could have some surplus and benefiting those who had arrived with some deficit. This attempt to mutualize the deficits of 2012 was however decided by common agreement with the Regions. So, I repeat, 1,830 million were allocated at regional level; 170 million were allocated to remedy the overall 2012 deficit; 205 million were allocated to interventions against companies that have entered into governmental agreements for multi-localized companies. As for, in particular, the Region of Liguria, to the same - in implementation of the Plans of repartum of the financial resources, agreed in the Conference State-Regions and autonomous Provinces - have been allocated financial resources pairs to 36,565,170 euros altogether for 2013. The commitment of the Government to provide, for 2014, adequate resources to be allocated to the financing of the cash in derogation, is confirmed by the forecast referred to in paragraph 183 of the law of stability for 2014 that assigns to the social shock absorbers in derogation ulterior 600 million euros, additional regarding the sums already available to current legislation, that they amount to a billion. I would like to add that of these 1,600 million euros concerning 2014 these days we are agreeing with the Ministry of Economy a first breakdown that, in part, could be used to recover the slopes of 2013, knowing of course that the more you recover past slopes and the less resources there will be for 2014. It is not excluded that, given the continuing crisis, additional resources can be found in 2014. I also wanted to point out that Decree-Law No. 54 of 2013 provided for the adoption of an interministerial decree that will have to identify the criteria for granting social shock absorbers in derogation more harmonised at the national level. This decree, far from being issued "of empire" by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Economy (it is, as you know, an interministerial decree), will be the result of an articulated and participated path, which will see the full involvement of the State-Regions Conference and the competent parliamentary committees, to which the text was transmitted on 24 December 2013. It was incardinated yesterday in the 11th Senate Commission and today in the XI Commission. The rule also provides for the social partners to be heard, in full awareness of the sensitivity of the subject and the need for a path as much as possible shared with the main social and institutional actors. Finally, I would like to point out that the launch of the system of bilateral solidarity funds provided for in Law No 92 of 2012 will allow greater harmonisation, including at territorial level, of the system of income support policies and the tendency to exceed the exceptional regulatory models and derogations that have characterized the legislation of the most recent years. I would remind you that the solidarity funds will be established on an insurance basis, so with the participation of contributions from workers and, above all, companies, while, as you know, the fund and the shock absorbers by way of derogation refer, for their financing, to general taxation. This is the passage provided for by Law No 92. Finally, I confirm that the Government, and the Ministry that I represent in particular, has concretely undertaken to identify additional resources in support of social shock absorbers in derogation, possibly also in the course of 2014, although for this year, compared to 2013, we have arranged an amount of resources that will allow the Regions to better plan their interventions during the year.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u15	Mr Albano (PD). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your response as a representative of the Government, and also for the measure that the Government has taken to ensure that the Fund for the Integration Fund is refinanced by the Stability Act. Only one note, in the method and not in the contents. The situation that had been well described by Senator Pinotti, the first signatory of this question, reported a real picture and the problems that in April 2013 were felt on the people's skin, especially those of Liguria, that today have been overcome both with the approval of the law of stability and of all the other measures that the Government has put in place, thus giving, in fact, a response to the critical issues described so far. What I would like to point out, Mr Undersecretary, is that the response times of the Government have proved to be so long that in the end they have made this question superfluous. For this reason I ask that the Government be more rapid in its answers, because, at the moment when we senators go to the territory and are urged on specific issues, we must not wait almost a year to obtain an answer that then in the meantime is perfectly useless (although - we would miss something else - I appreciate). I would ask the Presidency to be able to add to the report of the sitting an addition to my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u16	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to say that, in fact, this interrogation is also somewhat outdated, so some answers have been given, albeit not completely. However, it is important that we have the opportunity to address this issue. On 1 February 2013, in the context of the reorganization of the penitentiary order, the Minister in address had decreed the abolition of the surrounding houses of Mistretta, Modica and Nicosia, motivating the decision on the basis of economic and management criteria, the same ones that ended up making execution (we still hope to be able to intervene, but at the moment it seems very difficult) the abolition of the court of Modica, of which the suppression of the prison appears direct consequence, and that, however, do not take account of many factors. In particular, the main motivation for the suppression of the Modica prison, as well as those of Nicosia and Mistretta, would lie in the fact that their maintenance would entail excessive burdens for the Erario, in relation to their small size, as they are located in monumental converted convent structures that do not allow, at the moment, to accommodate more than a certain number of prisoners (currently 68). The explicit decree that this decision has been taken in the light of the opening of new detention pavilions in Palermo, Agrigento and - I beg you to pay attention to this too - the renovation of the surrounding house of Ragusa, where, however, the places are not yet fully available to accommodate the prisoners and which however would result in an increase in expenses. Precisely with a view to rationalising expenditure and the number of prisoners in prisons - in a country where the shortage of prison facilities and overcrowding are lamented - is the cause of suicide (we are still debating all this today, and it has been seen that in the last ten years the number of suicides has tripled) - this determination is likely to aggravate the situation of the surrounding houses with a larger capacity, especially in view of the fact that the structures that will have to accommodate the prisoners do not appear, in particular that of Ragusa, still adequately renovated and reorganized. In particular, the surrounding house in Modica has become, according to the prisoners themselves, a home in which the prisoner is followed in the process of rehabilitation and reintegration into society. On this, allow me to make a brief consideration. We have debated this these days: how many times it is said that it is important to fill the content of being in prison, to rehabilitate people, otherwise you would not see the sense of this penalty! Well, in this reality, of which I will tell you specifically, there is a whole community that revolves around this surrounding house, which is present supporting the most fragile people, immigrants, people who do not have economic support. There are priests, citizens and citizens who offer support with their presence and attention, and there is a direction of the extremely intelligent structure, which does what is needed to re-education, recovery and rehabilitation of those who end up in prison, so that they can face life again, when they can finally get out of that reality. According to the inmates of the prison in Modica, in a note that I reported in the interview, the management and the operators spend to facilitate the employment of those who are imprisoned, through the execution of works within the same structure. In particular, they claim to feel like people and not numbers. Think that these have spontaneously restructured, with their capacity, some parts of the prison: they repainted it, they renovated the plumbing and electrical system, they themselves were operators of the improvement of the structure, which happened therefore at zero cost. In addition, in this reality, there are primary and middle school courses, individual accounting courses, vocational training courses for artistic crafts and agro-food production. A multimedia classroom has been created and what is now called upon to do (but they have done so before), creating an adequate space in which children can meet their parents, without experiencing the trauma of prison reality. All this has been achieved thanks to the intelligence of some people who work there, but also, of course, to the modest number of guests of the structure: this must be recognized. Among the latest innovations, I remember a draft project, which includes cooperation with the ASL, Rotary and a consortium, which will make available to the cooks to form operators: when such people leave the prison, they will have a professionalism and a working capacity, which they did not have before. Moreover, as inside the structure in which the prison is located there is a wonderful cloister, which leaves stunned, (it seems to be in Monreale, although it is a much smaller and less famous reality), is signed a protocol of collaboration with the Superintendence, so that the guests of the institute can accompany the tourists; if the project was not supported by the fund of fines, as it is defined, there is also the availability of the city tourist consortium to bear the related expenses. This shows how attentive and sensitive the community is to these problems. And just when there are citizens so present do we want to mortify them? This does not seem to me to be very far-sighted. In addition, in this period it is already planned to open the cells: the guests of the surrounding house can leave from 9 am to 6 pm, to have a different relationship and not be segregated. We know how much the fact of being better reduces chronic disease and the risk of self-aggression, not to mention suicides. In conclusion, with this question I was still asking and asking the Minister, and the Secretary who represents him, if they do not intend to revoke the decree to abolish the surrounding house in question. Speaking with the Minister, on a previous occasion, I had pointed out that there was the possibility, if necessary, of expanding the surrounding house, since in an area behind the prison there is a land owned by the Ministry of Justice itself: this would therefore be feasible without any expense. Since there is the problem of overcrowding, since there is the availability of prison building (as the Minister told me on a previous occasion), given the existence of this space behind the prison, I do not see why, instead of closing such a precious and careful reality, which realizes concretely what we ask every day, we cannot amplify all this, building in a space that is already available. For all these reasons, I ask you to know how the Government intends to respond to all this, since we have also spoken today of alternative punishments to detention, precisely to respond to what Europe continues to tell us, about the excessive number of people in our prisons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u18	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u19	Mr President, by ministerial decree of 1 February 2013, rightly recalled now by the senator, it was proposed to abolish the surrounding houses of Modica, Mistretta and Nicosia. As regards specifically the structure of Modica, the reasons for the measure lie mainly in the age of the structure, which makes it very difficult to adapt to the requirements of the implementing regulation. In fact, the spaces and environments destined to the performance of the institutional functions are absolutely lacking and the renovation of the property appears completely uneconomical for the era in terms of comparison between costs and benefits, also considered the already modest receptive capacity of the structure that would be further reduced in case of sanitary, plant and modernization works. In addition, the institution is lacking from the point of view of the level of safety, so much so that a case of evasion has recently occurred. In any case, the closure of the institute in Modica is, in fact, suspended and the structure is fully operational. This is waiting for new detention places at the nearby surrounding house of Ragusa, which is only 15 kilometers away, where will be hosted the prisoners of the surrounding house of Modica (whose average presence is in the order of 70-75 units). The structure of Ragusa, which today is overcrowded due to the presence of 165 prisoners, against a tolerable capacity of 143 seats, will soon be affected by renovation and adaptation of an entire detention unit currently closed. The work will allow the recovery of 108 posts, thus ensuring compliance with the parameters set by the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, the invitation to tender for the assignment of the renovation, consolidation and adaptation of the surrounding house of Ragusa, acquired on the project the nulla preclude from the Superintendence to the cultural assets, in spite of the architectural constraints that weigh on the prison structure, was published on 30 October 2013 on the official website of the Ministry of Justice. The offer envelopes were opened on December 4th. It is reasonable to believe that work can be completed by the end of 2014. In short, the overall reorganization of the institutions in question is intended to achieve, within a coordinated framework of rationalization of the structures and economic management, an effective improvement in prison conditions, obviously not separated from the successful performance of vocational training courses, school courses and treatment activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u22	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply. However, I can only express a discreet dissatisfaction. I understand that we want to rationalise and that we want to reduce costs, but I wonder whether this operation has been well thought out. Apart from the fact, as the Undersecretary has said, that the measure has been blocked because the surrounding house of Ragusa is not ready, and therefore also there will invest some funds for the adaptation, in any case I fear that, when, once done the work, these other people can be hosted, the structure of Ragusa will not be enough to welcome them. In fact, I remind you that Modica is inserted in the context of Scicli-Modica-Ispica-Pozzallo. Pozzallo: do you know what Sampieri meant in the municipality of Scicli last September? You know all the landings on the east coast every day? This means that there is some traffic. We know what's going on. We've seen the dead, we've rescued people. Every day the local authorities in charge are struggling to give dignified answers to a request for reception. What's that got to do with anything? It has something to do with it, because with the increase in crime, guests will be increased. And when they increase, Ragusa will no longer be enough, so the local prisoners, who in Modica have found acceptance and recognition as people - please think about this: as people - will be moved to other places of the Region or of the country, therefore with an increasingly difficult relationship with family members, their children and loved ones. Hence, from a human point of view, there would be a great difficulty in family relationships, resulting in loneliness and psychological distress. I also believe that if we want to give these people dignity, the smallest numbers can also be revisited, and in a certain way we can find a system of economic interest for the State as well. When the numbers are too high, the attention to the person cannot be so high; similarly, the nursing medical service, which is adequate in the smallest place, will not be in the same way adequate in the much larger places. I understand and thank the Undersecretary for the answer, but I would ask the Government to take care of the matter, because it is true that intervention on an ancient structure is so important, difficult and complex, but it is true that, exactly behind this reality, there is a space available where you could build ex novo. In the past I have invited a group of senators, who have been there and have been very impressed by this reality, which I believe to be model and, therefore, to be evaluated, valued and not to be closed, let me say. I also invite the Undersecretary to make a visit to realize and also reconsider a possible possibility, using a space that perhaps could represent in the long run not an expense, but a saving for the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u23	The questioning and questioning on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-169.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 21 January, the first at 9 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.58 p.m.
