ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u4	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I invite colleagues to take their seats. This is the first vote of the week, so as a practice we give Members time. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.27 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u9	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u10	I have listened to your speeches with more content. [[Laughter]] Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 11.28 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u13	I communicate that on 14 March 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economics and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 25 of 14 March 2014 laying down urgent measures for the benefit of third parties for the exercise of the supervision activities of the Bank of Italy" (1387).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u15	Mr President, I too have asked to speak on this subject in our debate, because it seems to me that despite the many speeches made by my fellow Members in recent days, the matter has not yet been clarified. Therefore, I humbly believe that I can make a contribution to analysis, which I hope will be useful for everyone's assessments. The subject we are dealing with is certainly important, sensitive and recurring in the debates, not only parliamentary but also public opinion. It concerns the balance in gender representation and, in this particular case, the Italian delegation to be sent by the electorate to Strasbourg and Brussels following the elections on 25 May. It is certainly a subject that requires attention and commitment from all of us, because it cannot be underestimated and snubbed. We must clearly give the electoral people, as always, a clear, unambiguous and in keeping with the opportunity of the times. However, Mr President, allow me to make a first remark: the importance of this issue cannot hide the fact that the times in which we examine it seem to me completely out of proportion, completely inappropriate, unusable, for a number of reasons that the Senate Assembly certainly cannot ignore. They are, in fact, improper times and cannot be used to discuss this important issue, because we know, first of all, how every rule of good functioning of the institutions requires that an electoral law be changed at a reasonable safe distance from the conduct of the same electoral meetings. The European Union, too, has repeatedly spoken in this direction and, on the other hand, this consideration is one of those that concern common sense and reflection, not every senator, but also every and every citizen. We are not at all, Mr President, colleagues, at a safe distance from the European elections. Today is March 18th: in just over two months, on May 25th, Italian citizens and citizens will be able - if they so wish - to exercise their right to vote. A little over two months, therefore: we are not at all at a safe distance to be able to change electoral legislation. In addition, Mr President, the law states that the deadline for the collection of signatures to validate the submission of lists shall be from one hundred and eighty days from the day of the elections. In this case the situation is even clearer: not only are we not far from the safe distance, but we are also in danger of seriously breaking, in an unacceptable way, what the law itself establishes. It has already been noted by a number of colleagues who have spoken in this debate, and the rapporteur herself - whom I thank - has mentioned very quickly that news of the press, supported by the direct experience of many of us, speak of groups, political movements, parties that have already begun collecting the necessary signatures at the bottom of the lists they intend to present at the next European elections. For these same reasons, it seems to me, Mr President, that it would be much wiser for us to take note of this obstacle - which I fail to define as insurmountable: totally insurmountable - and to put an end to this debate, putting off the examination of reforms and changes which can also be regarded as appreciable. Let me be very frank, Mr President. I think it would have been decidedly preferable for this House not to start the debate on this measure, because we cannot give the feeling that one of the two branches of Parliament that is still in force, the Senate, changes the laws by violating the terms and the ways in which the laws themselves can be changed. In the assessment of citizens, Mr President, we are the Palace in the Pasolinian sense of the term, the power clinging to itself, which self-justifies and perpetuates itself. This act, if we ever go to fulfill it, would confirm the feeling that an increasing number of citizens have of us: the Palace that perpetuates itself, changing the laws not according to the dictates of the laws themselves, but according to its own will. It would therefore have been decidedly preferable not to start this debate either, Mr President. Allow me to insist: it would have been further preferable for the Commission to stop in its work once the existence of this insurmountable, but already crossed, barrier of one hundred and eighty days has been verified. I do not want to criticize the eminent Members and colleagues who make up the Commission, of course, but I cannot deny a certain surprise at the assessment they have made, while correctly pointing out the existence of this insurmountable barrier, in deciding to send this issue to the House. Forgive me if I add that even the rapporteur herself, whom I have great esteem for and who, in her initial presentation, reminded me of this obstacle, in my humble opinion, could have given a greater weight, greater impact, in pointing out that the existence of this unbreakable and yet broken barrier is absolutely obstructive. I certainly expect the Government, taking the floor in this debate, to use very clear and unambiguous terms, denying its assent to the desire to continue examining the measure itself. However, even with these considerations, which may or may not be shared by colleagues in this House, we have arrived at the debate and we are in it, so it is good to use the time available to clarify the matter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not a question of the right or the left, neither of men or women, but of respect for the rules, which apply and must apply to all, women and men, the left and the right. The rules, in the opinion of those who speak to you, are not the essence of democracy (or they may not be considered like that), but they are certainly the form, and we know, from ancient times, that there is no essence without form: without a form that respects the rules, the essence itself is a violation of the rules: rules that are the guarantee that in democracy the rights of all - yes, the rights of all citizens - are respected. We here, ladies and gentlemen, are not discussing the rights of those who will be candidates within the lists that the parties and political movements will present for the European elections, which will be a very limited number of Italian citizens and citizens, compared with the huge number of Italian citizens who will have the right, if they wish to exercise it, to choose their representatives. The issue we are talking about is the rights of electoral citizens, of everyone. Woe would be for our assembly, if our Senate did not stand in the insurmountable defense of the rights of all, with respect to the arbitrary will of those who wanted to change the rules not respecting the rules themselves. I would simply like to point out that this reasoning is valid and must also apply to the good cause that we are debating. Certainly, the issue of gender balance, in this case in the Italian delegation to the European Parliament, is a good cause, but also the good causes, in order to be such, in their proposal and in their being carried forward, need to respect these rules, as I pointed out. The rules, therefore, those of democracy, those of the game, as is often said. And precisely the question of the rules of the game prompts me to formulate a further consideration here: the game is not human activity that has less dignity than many other human activities. Each game contains in itself certainly a playful, recreational, light dimension, but the game is also manifestation of the identity of the personality of the player. The game, in ancient and modern pedagogy, has become an essential educational element; through the teaching of the observance of the rules of the games we teach the children of our country, the children and the children of our families, to be respectful of the other, to compete and to try to overcome the other, but not through the unfairness of behavior, but through the strong and inseparable respect of all the rules that preside to the game itself. Therefore, this subject is once again with great force, and I believe, dear President, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot overcome it. Mr President, in the short time I still have available for this speech, allow me to deal with another point of view of mine, which is very personal and therefore, like all personal points of view, can also be criticized. I have already stated that as a New Right-Handed Centro we are not opposed to this debate when there will be right times and right ways. However, if we were to tackle the debate, I would like to make a point which I would also like to make here: even if these were the right time to talk about the best ways in which to ensure that our representation in the European Parliament can be combined with the freedom of the voter, I would also have some doubts as to whether I am in favour of the so-called gender preference. Senator colleagues, the next European elections will take place using the preferred voting method, which, in the opinion of many - many of those who sit among our benches, as well as those of the House of Deputies, as well as of many opinionators - would be the absolute evil of democracy. I don't think so. On the contrary, I believe that the fact that the European elections can take place by allowing voters who wish to express one or more preferences to represent an act of freedom, which exalts the fact that it is the citizens who choose by their vote of the list given to one party rather than to another, but also by their vote of preference - which in this case can be multiple - given to one, two or three candidates or candidates on the lists of the preferred party. This possibility, therefore, enhances the fact that our delegation to the European Parliament will be clearly and unequivocally chosen with the vote of the citizens. Let me say, President (and I do not wish to be emphatic) that preference, in my opinion, is synonymous with freedom: the freedom of the elector. And why preclude a male voter, if he wanted to, from voting for three women? Why preclude the freedom of a female voter, if she wanted to, to vote for three men? We must not be afraid of the freedom of choice of our citizens, and we must not, in my humble opinion, ever and never make laws that can still be considered coercive of this freedom. I come back to this: the cause for which someone would like to legislate in this matter is good, but the form can be perceived by someone as coercive, as limiting his freedom of choice; a freedom that, I repeat, is recognized in the European elections and that, at least if we are under the dictation of the electoral law issued by the Chamber of Deputies under the name of Italicum, will again be denied, unless the ancient and wise Senate gives greater exposure to the wisdom of the Sister Chamber in reintroducing the vote of preference. Let us not forget, then, that there are precise rules that lead to respect for the alternation of genders in the composition of the lists for the European Parliament. So the lists must and must be made, and the lists that have already begun to collect the signatures of the citizens in order to be authorized for presentation on the card are already made in compliance with a gender alternation: respect for an alternation that we might want, or some of us might want, more robust, but however it is already contemplated. We can think, in this case, I would be in favour of introducing in due course, in the future, a rule that would lead to absolute respect for gender alternation, thus reaching a quota of 50-50, but, once again, I point it out, this does not seem to me the moment. On the other hand, let me also, and let me conclude, dear President, ladies and gentlemen, to remind all of you of what you all know, namely that, where the system of double gender preference has already been used in previous regional elections, it does not seem to me that the evaluation can be positive. In fact, from candidates and candidates the so-called rope system was organized, which was one of the reasons why over twenty years ago a popular referendum was proposed, with triumphal outcome, that cancelled multiple preference precisely to prevent the phenomenon of rope. [[Recalls of the President]] I also have other ideas to develop, but, Mr President, I do not want to abuse your patience and that of my colleagues, for which I thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the NCD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u16	We greet and welcome you to the Istituto Stato di primo grade "Marco Polo-Galilei" in Cardito, in the province of Naples, whose students and teachers are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u17	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, to summarise the content of the rules, which I would like to comment on, introduced with the draft law that we have been discussing for several hours. I do this not for exercise, but because too often when we hear about it, both in this House and especially in the media, it seems that we are proposing things that are different from what we support. The draft law that we would like to adopt provides for specific measures on gender rebalancing for the European elections, introducing rules compatible with this system, which, as we know, provides for preference. Therefore, in the event that the voter decides to express more than one preference, the choice will have to include candidates of both genders, both women and men, or the annulment of the second and third preference. The parties are obliged to submit lists in which neither sex is represented in more than 50% and in whose order the first two candidates are of different sex. Then, in the event of non-compliance with the 50% quota, there will therefore be the cancellation of the names of candidates belonging to the most represented gender, proceeding naturally from the bottom of the list. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this House and outside this House, when we deal with this part of the bill, we have spoken with some contempt of these rules, unjustly called or summarised as rules for pink quotas, that is to say to protect them, as if there were a reservation. There has been a flood of comments on the substance, which has always been introduced into the discussions when tools have been sought to open up, even to women, the places of political representation. The merit has thus become incredibly a weapon against women, because it is said that if women deserved they would not need specific rules, much less an Indian reserve. Allow me, however, to disagree with these arguments and to bring some significant facts. In Italy, only 47 percent of women work, compared with 67 percent of men and 60 percent of the OECD average. There is also a gap of more than ten percentage points between female graduates. At the same time, however, Italian women are on average more educated than men. There are nine percentage points that divide men's graduate women in Italy: 24.2 percent compared to 15.5 percent for women. Between the population of young people between the ages of thirty and thirty-four, women are the ones who are able to gain more often and better the degree; a gap which, however, does not guarantee women to receive the same treatment as men at work. Wage differences remain strong and are exacerbated by the birth of children who sometimes - all too often unfortunately - also lead to job losses. A study by the Bank of Italy in 2013 (I write this study because it is not carried out by a feminist association but by the Bank of Italy) noted that, although the national law is characterized by good quality legislation in the field of equal opportunities for men and women in work, the degree of effectiveness of the legislation is however very small, still there is an accentuated gap between the quality of the rules and their concrete application; a gap between the principles established in the legislative texts and the impact of these on concrete situations. This is perhaps the Indian reserve we need to talk about, that is, the small number of women who manage to have a job in spite of merit, which should be a priority - as they say and how they should - in choosing who to hire. Why is no one here, ladies and gentlemen, talking about merit? Where is the merit in a society in which people with the highest level of education are removed from the world of work because they do not find policies suited to their needs? In the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a more feminine policy that passes not only, but also, by more women in Parliament and in elected assemblies of all levels, because we very often have been discriminated against - all of us, even those who are privileged like us who sit in these classrooms - on pay or employment just because of women; we have risked a career arrest or a loss of work for a motherhood. This is our weakness, but - believe me - it is also our merit, ladies and gentlemen, because we have learned on our own skin that equality is not an abstract formal word or a principle that stands at the top; equality, for it to occur, must take account of differences in the starting data. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that out of 72 Italian MEPs, only 18 of those elected in 2009 are women; a number that puts us, together with Ireland and Lithuania, at 22nd place in 28 Member States for women's presence in the European Parliament. It is a fact that highlights how in other European countries, where active policies have been implemented to reduce differences in representation, women are now more numerous, both in the national Parliament and in the European Parliament. It is a fact that shows how in European countries, where there is more women in politics and institutions, women have more space in the world of work thanks to policies of support promoted and then approved by elected assemblies. Women's representation is necessary in order to see with a new eye the problems, to make them priority on the political agenda, not to let them lapped in the context of good intentions but to place them at the centre of everyone's attention. Greater representation of women within the institutions is perhaps the first and fundamental prerequisite for the effective implementation of the gender mainstreaming principle. This is what is noted by a research promoted by the Bank of Italy in a study of June 2013 entitled: The evolution of gender legislation in Italy and Europe. In this study, it was stressed that Community legislation, which also played a key role in defining the principles of equal opportunities for men and women and in setting development objectives in gender policies in the different Member States, has, however, reflected in a different substantial impact of the regulatory framework in the European countries, mainly dependent on the cultural context of reference, given the lack of prescriptive rules at national level. I believe - and I know I am making a strong statement - that it is time for something to change, that as we hurry to put in national legislation the rules that concern competition and the market it is time for Europe to be prescriptive also on gender equality in countries where it is lacking, such as Italy. It is a time when finally the constitutional dictation and therefore the removal of the obstacles to equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution and the promotion of equal opportunities referred to in Article 51 are no longer just fine words, but deeds. Ladies and gentlemen, this sensitivity, this ability to include in European policies the gaze of women who still suffer such discrimination does not go from abstract and nebulous declarations of principle in which parties are engaged, but from a real and concrete greater availability on the electoral lists of women - those who have more merit - and consequently in a greater number of Italian women in the European Parliament: women who carry their cultural background and experience and who know, like me and you, that active policies of support and help to women are reflected in an improvement not only for women, but for the whole society of women and men. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, as has already been explained by previous Members, amends certain provisions of Law No 18 of 1979 on the election of Italian Members to the European Parliament by addressing, with a view to guaranteeing gender representation, two distinct and complementary aspects: the formation of lists and the expression of preferences. The bill therefore enters the heart of a cultural and political debate. For the first profile it should be remembered that the need for guarantees for gender representation must find an even more advanced point of concrete relapse in the social events of our country. In this direction, for example, the result achieved by Law No 120 of 2011 that encourages the presence of women on the boards of public and private companies should be reported. However, it is necessary to identify instruments that make even greater use of the presence of women in civil society. However, even in the more specific sphere of politics it is necessary to make a change, although it must be pointed out that many colleagues have already reached very high levels of political responsibility in which they have known and will know how to pour all their professional and human experience. In the matter of elective assemblies, the law n. 215 of 2012 with which they were introduced, in the elections for the municipal councils of the municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants, both the double preference of gender and a quota of list according to which, in the lists of candidates, neither of the two sexes can be represented to an extent greater than two thirds. Similar solutions have been adopted by some regions. In this overall context, the draft law under consideration deals with the way in which the Italian representatives are represented in the European Parliament, but at a time when there is a strong debate in this House about the issue of gender quotas in the Chamber of Deputies when the national electoral law was amended. So we will soon be able to resume this issue in the context of the debate on the measure, which has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 March, further deepening its various profiles. But the fundamental difference between the debate that we will soon be discussing and the debate that is taking place here today cannot escape. In the first case (the national electoral law) we will be confronted with a set of rules, a broad reform within which there are specific issues and among them that of gender representation. A broad reform that is also examined at the outcome of the well-known Constitutional Court ruling and at a time when there is no immediate return to the polls on our horizon. There is therefore time to examine the text drawn up by the House of Deputies with sufficient serenity and thoughtfulness, even in view of the adoption of those changes that have been evoked by several parties, including by authoritative representatives of the Democratic Party. Therefore, at the outcome of the overall work that Chamber and Senate will work on national electoral law, the appropriate stimuli and indications may be taken to adequately evaluate the subject matter covered by the bill today on the agenda of the Senate. It is certainly not a way of circumventing the issue before us, on the contrary: precisely because we want to deepen it properly, we cannot ignore the analysis and evaluations that will be carried out with reference to the text approved by the House. The measure under consideration (here is the difference I mentioned earlier) addresses today, when collecting the signatures in progress, a problem which concerns the formation of lists and the vote of preference for the election to the European Parliament. I believe that at the beginning of the procedure it is not possible to amend the electoral law for the European Parliament. We are, in fact, just a few weeks away from the elections and the introduction of the constraint laid down in the draft law would take place at a far too late stage. On the other hand, on this issue there is an explicit indication of the institutions of the European Union that it recommends not to change the rules of electoral competition in the year preceding the elections. Therefore, a different attitude could be taken where the draft law on the agenda was examined far from electoral competition at European level. The risk that I see materializing is that of adopting on a specific, though relevant, aspect of the mechanism for the transformation of votes into seats a solution which, removed from a general context, may risk conditioning in some way the debate on the draft law which, on 12 March last, was not without difficulty, was approved by the other branch of Parliament. Let us, instead, let the confrontation on this project be distracted to the Senate free from conditioning and inspire us to the solutions that will be operated in that area. Having said that, as I said, I would suggest that at this stage we do not proceed further in the examination of the draft law on the agenda of the House today. As for the lists, I note that it is true that article 51, paragraph 1, of the Constitution provides that all citizens of the one and the other sex can access public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, according to the requirements laid down by law, and that to this end the Republic promotes with special measures the equal opportunities between women and men, but the question to be solved is precisely about the limits and the ways in which these principles are realized in the legislative acts. From this point of view the question arises as to whether, in this context, a mandatory provision to the point to be taken in specific hypotheses to the recusal of the list is in accordance with the constitutional dictation. Among other things, a mechanism for deleting the names of candidates belonging to the most represented gender is envisaged, in order to ensure compliance with the principle that candidates of the same sex cannot exceed half of the number of candidates on each list and that when, following the cancellation of the excess candidates, the list contains fewer candidates than expected, the list is rejected by the circumscription electoral office. I would like to point out in this connection that in this way the will of the tens of thousands of voters who have signed the list is distorted (this is a number which, I recall, varies on the basis of Article 12 of Law No 18 of 1979, from 30,000 to 35,000 voters). The alternative would be to have to redo the lists without, however, being able to take advantage of the legislative time provided for the collection of signatures, thereby creating a clear disparity of treatment. To this end, however, a transitional rule would be necessary, but, as the Government has pointed out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it presents profiles of unreasonableness, being able to determine precisely that discriminatory effect between the lists participating in the electoral competition that I have now highlighted. I realize that this is a specific aspect of the legislation that we are discussing today, but the effects of this and the constitutional concerns that arise are, in my opinion, symptomatic of the need for a substantial postponement of the examination of the issue in the sense that I have previously highlighted. I remain convinced, Mr President, that the guarantees for gender representation should also be accompanied by primary standardisation measures aimed at encouraging it, but the choice of time when to implement these interventions is not indifferent to the better achievement of the result, and that is why, finally, I repeat the position I have outlined in wishing for a pause for reflection on the draft law. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u21	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u22	Mr President, on 8 March, Hillary Clinton said a very important sentence in my opinion, namely that the recognition of the talents of women, of the abilities and of the condition of women is the great unfinished work of this century and that we have before us. This is all the more true when we look at the crisis of representation that goes through not only Italy but at least Europe: a crisis of representation that has been mentioned over and over again in a growing distance between citizens and power, between men and women, institutional power and governments. We know from many researches that women are the most distrustful of power, even in a very ambivalent way, albeit with very serious motivations. For example, I believe that there is (and this debate is proving very well) an opacity of power, a lack of understanding of what the actual mechanisms are. There are those who talk about rules, but I believe that in this case we are not talking about rules, but about real mechanisms that promote opacity: where you decide, who you decide and when you decide. Anyone with political experience knows perfectly well that many decisions are taken at dinner, in front of the coffee maker or at night, in an incredible ritual that wants physical fatigue as one of the elements of value in politics, a sort of war. Anyone who has made congresses knows well that the best decisions are made in the morning after a sleepless night, so that we are all much better, and that in fact penalizes women. Therefore, the timing of the decision on the great issue of the times of politics and institutions fully involves this crisis of representation. And then who decides? Well, in politics, each party will play its part with its statutes, but I believe that we are in the country's top institutional seat here, and I believe that we cannot afford to be expropriated from any decision in this field. I also believe that the paths of affirmation or mediation, I hope not of negation, must clearly prevail over the oppositions. I say this because it may not be clear to all colleagues, but the credibility of politics and the institutions is at stake. The distrust that exists outside of here is not born from nothing, but also from the awareness, that it is much stronger among people than it is in the political world, that the world is made by men and women, but in the institutions and relations with power there is a gender, the male one, that claims to have universality while being a part, and I believe that from this we must start. The surveys on local elections, for example on neighbouring institutions, state very clearly that people are willing to vote for a woman, not only because it is an element of change, but also because it is an expression of that part that has historically been less compromised with power and therefore a more moral part, and from this we need to start. Secondly, there is a problem of social analysis. As my colleague said before, young women have very big educational successes, they want to study, they want to go very fast, they reach the school goal, and when they arrive in the world of work they still take a smear, yet they are more valid than their male peers; moreover, suddenly, when you start to reach the highest levels, at the apical levels, there is the stop in the presence of a value that is socially, vice versa, accepted. It is therefore relevant, in my opinion, that we exercise ourselves on this issue, because I believe that no one can prevent women from discussing power. Let me say that I do not accept, and I find it very serious, that when we discuss power, the rebalancing of representation and the presence of women, a purely welfarist vision of women's freedom is opposed to this: therefore, before the kindergartens, before the work, after the equality will come. No, look, this isn't what we're doing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We are not there, because these are very important issues on which women, often in solitude, have conducted extraordinary battles, and we would also like to see some men, more or less young, exercise themselves on these welfare issues as a priority, starting from the plan on sexual violence, of which we do not yet have a great deal of concentration. These are very important issues, but they cannot precede that speech on rights, civil rights, Article 51 of the Constitution, which reformulates in some way equality as equal opportunities for men and women in public life. I invite you to reflect on this: equal opportunities are a dynamic value of democracy, they are far from quotas. I would really ask you - and I also say this to the press - not to stop talking about pink quotas, because here we are not talking about pink quotas, but about representation and the rebalancing of representation between men and women within the Italian and European institutions. Of course, I realize that there are many obstacles to overcome even among women, as we have also heard in the House debate. Since I believe that none of us, regardless of our political orientations, wants to go through the boss's pupa, because I believe that we all have a head, we know our value and we know what we are talking about, I think it is appropriate to do some further on this issue. I just remember that the entry of women into public life in India has led to a substantial reduction in infant mortality. 12:18 p.m. (De Biasi follow). This means that the whole of society has changed with the entry of women into social life, and I think that these institutions, which do not satisfy the citizens, will be able to change with a greater entry of women, with a look also different from that of men, with a look that has behind it a history of exclusions and miseries, but also a history of strength and great conquests. It is therefore the whole of society that changes. So I do not think we should talk about quotas, but I do not accept either, I do not like it, I am opposed to those who say that there are no distinctions between men and women, but it is only about quality. Too bad that, not with equal skill, but with equal mediocrity, he usually chooses a man anyway. So even on this, perhaps we should start to make some small reasoning. It is not true that there are no distinctions between men and women, because there is a history of division of labour, there is a history of separation between the sphere of care and the sphere of society and power. It is not true that there are no distinctions between men and women if for so many years we have talked about a society that was at the centre of the working man, and even today it is so difficult for women to have free access to a job and a career (not only to work, because that we already do so much: Italian women are those who, according to UN data, work the world the most absolutely, and it is not, of course, how many dishes men wash: let us try to raise the level of reasoning a little). It is a force, of course, I realize it, but if we had not forced into municipal councils and institutions of proximity, today we would not have male and female local ruling classes of the highest level. In some moments a forcing must be done, because the will is not enough, and above all it seems poor: therefore, it will be good to do it. We accept that this is a transitional phase: I too believe that the goal must be the equality of 50 and 50, i.e. an institutional world that recognises the existence of men and women. In the meantime, there are many intermediate stages: there is the quota (which I do not wish at the moment); there is the anti-discrimination rule, which is what we are trying to apply, the most dynamic one, which also allows institutional mediation. Of course, there is a political point that concerns the parties. Many times we have heard, at least in my experience, that, in the end, there are no women: it is not true, women are everywhere, women are everywhere; they want to compete with politics and power; they want to enter the world of decision. Of course, as far as politics is concerned - I am speaking for my part, I do not allow myself to talk about the political culture of colleagues who do not feel the same as I do - so, as far as the idea of the left is concerned, I believe that this battle of equality should also be mentioned by an overall political project. It is a political project that is still difficult to exist today but, having said that, it is not that for this reason I can admit that I am told that I have no right to discuss power until social equality has been achieved in this country. As Oliver Cromwell once said to the bishop, sacrificing the beginning of the secularity of the State: who are you to speak to me in this way? I'm telling that male world that it's not the time. Well, it's never the time: it's always the time of the Pavesini, I would say; if you don't start it is always and only the hour of the Pavesini. It is a little bit for such a high objective, and not because women are half the Italian citizens (which would also have its value, but I do not want to make a sociological issue of it), not because it is a matter of social justice to repair a wrong, to historical exclusion (it is not enough even this), but because I am convinced, with the United Nations, that the real way is to share. If we want to build a different society, we must learn to share between men and women: to share social aspects, to share everyday life, to share in politics, to share in power; not conflict but collaboration. I understand my male colleagues on one point, trivial but perhaps it is worth saying: it is true that if there is a woman there is no man; this is mathematics, so it is also necessary for our colleagues to make full use of it. The truth is inescapable: if there is a woman there is no man, and yet this cannot stop us with respect to a consistency that we have. In the construction of a Europe that is political and not just of the markets, of a Europe that is of the citizens, we obviously cannot exclude women from this path, which I personally find exciting. The condition of women - it has always been said - is the measure of civilization of a country, and this is so because it is from the freedom of women that in history has been born an enlargement of freedom for all. I understand that it can be painful, that it can be annoying, I understand that many electoral agreements have already been made (we are also very prosaic); we do not say that it is a quota, although the quota, even if not elegant, is very popular, but we give this Europe a chance and we give Italy a chance to enter Europe with an even higher head and with two points of view: that of men and that of women. I believe that this is a reason for the completion of democracy. Then everyone will continue to think of it as they wish, but we cannot call ourselves out as the Senate of the Republic and, therefore, as the highest institution of our country, which cannot fail to fulfill the fulfilment of the constitutional dictation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u24	Madam President, when I listened to the previous speaker who spoke on the left, I reflected on the fact that I myself was on the left. [[Comments from the Mixed-SEL Group]] , but I don't identify with the left one mentioned. There is a guaranteed left and a justiceist; a left who wants to respect the rules and the legality and a left - I quote the words spoken - who wants to make the forcings. With the forcings, I think we can no longer make vinegar: the forcings are such when the rules are no longer at stake and when we want to impose something different from democracy. Now we are in a situation in which the game has already started, and someone says that, during its course, it is necessary to change the rules and that certain goals are worth double, while others half. It is said that a football game, or a sports activity, must last not according to what one has prepared, but in a different way. There is the Senator for Life, Rubbia, who, of course, was lucky in this House, because when he was awarded the Nobel Prize, there was no rule that would impose alternation. Otherwise, if the Nobel Prize had to be awarded a year to a man and the following year to a woman, you, Senator Rubbia, would not have been awarded the Nobel Prize in that year, having received it the year before a man. I say this because it seems to me a little thin and weak the interpretation for use and consumption of Article 51 of the Constitution, of that Constitution made by the constituent Fathers having well aware that in Italy it was necessary to equate the genres giving each of them opportunities in the field of both working and political life, and also in the field of the active electorate. It was the founding fathers themselves, in 1946, who made it possible for women, through participation in the institutional referendum, to take part in political life. Let's not forget that only in the 1960s - I believe in 1958 - a socialist, Senator Merlin, in closing the houses of tolerance, had the courage to abolish a slavery of women (I also remember that in Italy post-war those women were deprived of the right to vote). As a Socialist, I can only welcome the equal access to elected positions for both men and women. This is the reasoning of a truly leftist one: a constitutionally guaranteed prescription, wanted and included in the Constitutional Charter also for the demands of the reformist and socialist forces. As a reformist I am convinced, as well as well as well aware, of the fundamental role played by women in society. We must not, however, forget that this is not a matter of fact arising from a condition or situations that have always been well cemented in our social fabric and - I say - in our mentality. It took battles, even hard, both in terms of women's emancipation and as regards the protection of women. I am referring, as I have already said, to the struggles for universal suffrage in 1946. However, wanting to establish by law a maximum limit for the participation of the two genres in the electoral contests seems to me something quite different from this. If we want to reason in terms of the measure we are debating here, it could be assumed that the active electorate, as well as the passive electorate that we want to change, must respect a gender balance in the expression of the vote; that is, women and men should vote in the same number. Yet we know that there are a few million women more; but no one comes to say that the active electorate that must participate in the vote must be as much a man as a woman. It is a freedom: everyone can and must participate. Is it possible to assume that something like this can happen, that in the active electorate men and women should be in the same number, or that even the seats should go to vote a man and then a woman? Absolutely not, because to express their electoral prerogatives, as active as they are passive, are not women and men, but citizens, beyond their classification in terms of gender; they are citizens, those who have the right to citizenship. It is not a matter that is based solely on the XX or XY chromosome. Abandoned the old pre-constitutional regiments, it was the simple character of citizenship, without any gender distinction, that determined individuals' right to the active and passive electorate. In fact, the next moment will be when, within the genres, there will also be equalization with transgenders. It is not possible to propose this, neither at this time nor ever. Men and women are first and foremost people, and I believe that this consideration cannot be ignored, either in this House or outside it. Then, if we are all people, voters, we should all be treated in the same way; or rather, we should treat other people in the same way that each of us would like to be treated, regardless of gender or gender. Having said that, there is also a question of selection of the ruling class, which cannot be entrusted to mechanisms related merely to gender difference or equality. Skills, potentialities, meritocracy cannot go second only to try to ensure gender equality within our institutions. As a reformist, I believe that the capable and deserving should be rewarded and, if they are able and deserving to occupy the benches of the representative Assemblies, as far as I am concerned, all women can also be without distinction. In fact, the same legal requirement under discussion, if on the one hand it provides for a gender balance in the composition of the electoral roll, on the other it represents a real limit to the possibilities of citizens, to whom - I repeat - the right of electorate is entrusted, regardless of its kind. Vivadio: if the active electorate, the one who votes, wants to vote on a woman, it can do so at any time, and we, already with this law, could have practically all women in Parliament. A non-candidate citizen, because the maximum ceiling for his gender on the list has been reached, could in fact be far more worthy of all candidates of the other kind. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Barani (GAL). I conclude, Madam President, by saying that democracy is such when the active electorate expresses itself and elects, at any time, the candidates it considers to be better and more appropriate in that particular role. That is democracy. Everything else is forced, which is not reformist and I don't think it's left-wing either. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u25	We welcome the students of the Enrico Mattei Istituto Comprehensivo in Matelica, in the province of Macerata, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that we are now out of time to make such an innovative law as the one we are debating today, even if it seems to be acceptable in this respect, because it tends to rebalance gender representation at the forthcoming European elections, but they are imminent. As has already been mentioned in this debate by many speakers, the collection of signatures for the presentation of lists has already started and it cannot be thought that they should now be revolutionized, frustrating the work already done and perhaps throwing away the signatures already collected. It would be schizophrenic and, although politics has accustomed us to everything, frankly it seems unacceptable to me. Among other things, we all know - it is useless to deny it - that the candidates have already been campaigning and that the internal alliances and cordades have already been made. An intervention is now totally inappropriate and - I repeat the concept - out of time. On the substance, I am concerned about a number of points. The dual preference of gender makes sense in electoral systems with a single preference, with the possibility of expressing a second gender, but certainly not in a system where preferences can be expressed as many as three. The speaker is an elector of the Nordest constituency, in which three preferences can be expressed. In these circumscriptions, of the two: either one or two of the preferences that can be expressed are reduced to one or two, and then the solution proposed by the text of law currently being considered in the abstract may be applicable, or, if the preferences remain three, it must be possible to express two of the same kind and one third of another. Logic says that, there are no alternatives. However, we recommend that we not complicate the lives of the electorate too much and - I add - also the presidents of the seats and the scouts: let us avoid excessive dirigism, which then leads to unnecessary disputes and interpretative uncertainties. There is also an attempt by the smaller parties to lower the threshold for entry into the European Parliament from 4% to 3%. After losing the battle in the House of Deputies on the threshold of national electoral law, today they try to revenge within this measure with some amendments. I understand that for some it is a matter of survival, but I personally believe that simplification of the national political framework is an objective to be pursued without delay, avoiding fragmentation, which then means ungovernability and instability. On the subject of European electoral law, I intend to introduce a further subject: perhaps it is worth considering whether preferences are the best criterion for selecting our MEPs today. The grabbing of preferences in colleges, especially if very large (and those in the European elections are very large), is very often achieved with clientele practices: the costs of election campaigns are very high and there is always the danger of the pollution of the exchange vote. In addition, this system often favours long-term politicians, the only ones known in such vast territories, but often little interested in European dossiers and therefore ineffective in the work of the House, as evidenced by the pitiful productivity indices expressed by the national delegation, a phenomenon repeatedly denounced by the most sensitive media. So why do we not think about introducing blocked lists in the European elections? This may be a provocation, but let's try to talk about it. I have tabled an amendment to this text which goes in that direction, with the aim of extending the blocked lists to the European elections. In fact, if there is an electoral competition in which the blocked list makes sense, it is precisely the European one: the European parliamentarians, in the opinion of the undersigned, must in fact be selected according to appropriate profiles of professionalism, because they must speak fluently foreign languages, have a strong sensitivity and competence on European issues and in essence be ambassadors of our country in a very competitive and meritorious assembly. Many of the parliamentarians we sent to Brussels or Strasbourg in the various legislatures, alas, in this respect were not up to the required standing. Among other things, precisely for this reason, no European country selects its MEPs with preferences, while many countries apply their blocked lists and many parliamentarians, for example the Germans, know in advance, even for several months, whether they will be re-elected and re-elected. The blocked lists would allow a much easier rebalancing of gender representation, even in the spirit of the draft law before us today. That is why, Madam President, I thought I should table Amendment No 1,137 which I would like to explain in the course of the examination of the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, debates such as today's debate have the merit of reminding us, at least indirectly, of those great choices in the field that Parliament's policy has at times had and has the good fortune to cross. The twentieth century gave us many of these moments. The last century was the scene of personalities, social movements, political parties capable of launching legislative initiatives capable of profoundly changing the living conditions of women and men, of responding to their deepest and noble aspirations, of fostering an ever higher quality of community life, of promoting the possibility of each one, of putting at the service of the common good the skills and competences of the most deserving, even if born in economic, cultural or social conditions disadvantaged. So it was - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - for mass schooling, universal suffrage, nationalisation of energy or agricultural reform. So it was certainly for the extraordinary achievements that the women's movement has been able to deserve, especially in the second half of the last century. But, if we must remember how much the twentieth century was certainly a decisive century in the overall growth of democratic spaces, we cannot ignore that much unfinished left us, asking us still today for a demanding commitment to the height of the great women and the great men who preceded us, even in these classrooms. The effective and full recognition of the female genius and the original and qualifying contribution of women to the society of the new millennium is one of the issues on which I believe, without much doubt, we are called to complete what is important has been done in terms of fundamental rights in the decades behind us. We know that it is certainly not enough for us to have a law such as the one we are discussing today to achieve the ambitious objectives I have mentioned above or that (to respond to some unnecessary controversy that has been mentioned recently on the subject of merit) no one is sure to achieve simply more women parliamentarians but good parliamentarians who are also women. Having said that, however, I would like us to avoid the temptation of "benaltrismo", hiding behind some trivial commonplace and giving up the possibility, also in this case, to implement choices capable of improving the quality of democracy in Italy and in Europe. Yes, the quality of democracy, because it is really necessary that we repeat our ambition, in a time of great effort for our institutions, of choices that re-announce the thread of trust between citizens and places of participatory democracy, that bring with more simplicity and immediacy the life and problems of people and families where important decisions are made on the life of the community, that humanize the sometimes cold technicalities of power, that overcome repeated rites often without even remembering the meaning, to return to gestures and procedures only apparently formal dignity and solemnity that derive from the fact that these places are born to be the last instance, especially of those who ask politics for redemption from a situation of discomfort. So let us take a step forward, taking up a positive action that has seen this Parliament in recent times finally say clear and shared words about the gender presence on the boards of directors of societies or about condemnation and about any positive action that can oppose the unacceptable drama of violence against women. We note that, as Europe teaches us in its most qualified realities, investing in women is good for communities, making them more creative, plural, balanced; that fostering the entry and success of women into the world of work makes GDP grow but also the number of children who are born and who say of our ability to look to the future with hope. Let's repeat then that the problem is not to give places to women as women to complete preset quotas, more or less pink (it happened that men of little quality have ended up on some list only to ensure representation to a territory or to complete the spaces available to a party current, we know): the objective instead is to create the conditions for the original contribution of women to enrich the institutions of politics, as happens fortunately in other social realities. With the awareness, however (let me tell you this), that this will not only mean "making room" for some more colleagues, but will have to force all of us to change significantly the nature of the times, ways and organization of our institutions, today modeled on schemes - one of our colleagues also recalled earlier - that are poorly adapted not only to the rhythms of a young mother's day, but that are structured on rituals and procedures closer to the approach of a very theoretical and "beautiful" dialectic declined to the masculine compared to the ability to find concretely the best shared and transversal solutions that - you will allow me to simplify - characterizes the anthropology to the feminine. I would like to conclude precisely on the specific contribution of women to this very time which we are used to call a democratic emergency, in some respects a serious democratic emergency, and which, precisely at European level, risks seeing in the coming weeks disintegrating and dangerous forces renouncing division and, not too veiledly, violence assert themselves. The story, which is often written to men, confirms that women have always had a sometimes hidden but important public role just when the social and economic crises have become more acute. Their most direct commitment emerged when at times even terrible were compressed and put at risk the minimum spaces of humanity, of relationship, of effective recognition of human dignity. This has happened in some places and moments that are well sculpted in our memory. Places and moments that have marked a leap forward in the affirmation and protection of human rights and that have a precise feminine connotation. We remember this: the capacity for resilience, self-organization and courageous denunciation by women has been largely demonstrated by the mothers of Plaza de Mayo, who are capable of not giving up in the face of the bloody Argentine dictatorship; by the women in black Belgrade and their denunciation of the crimes of Milosevic's dictatorship; by the South African women whose claims lie at the origins of the movement capable of defeating the inhumanity of apartheid. But with the same strength and constancy women have also been fully protagonists of the march towards democracy that characterized the history of our country in the second half of the last century. We remind you of the resumption of political participation in the Resistance movement, but then, also in the fifties, in that extraordinary function of cultural, social and political aggregation that were the great associations and the great mass parties. Years in which perhaps the first line in society was still masculine, but in which the change of culture and social models was being prepared, the fruits of which, as my colleague Petraglia recalled last week, the present generations sometimes enjoy unknowingly. I remember that in 1950 women enrolled in Christian Democracy were 35 percent of the members and 24 percent of the Communist Party. In 1954, the women participating in Catholic Action were half of the 2.5 million members and in 1964 the women enrolled in the Italian Women's Union were 220,000, but they had a circle for every 6,000 inhabitants: a capillarity that today political, social and trade union formations hardly reach. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like ours to be the awareness of those who today are called not only to give further fulfilment to a path of effective female protagonism, which also our Constitution does not stop calling us back, but above all to want a little more good to our democracy and the quality of our civil life. The possibility of having more women and better women in our institutions is also entrusted with the decisive game of restoring dignity and credibility to political commitment. A policy again capable of representing the highest and noblest way of offering service to its community and attracting again the passions and the best intelligences to engage them in the difficult but fascinating challenge of the future. I'm sure we won't miss this chance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u29	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u30	Madam President, I too want to give a testimony in this debate, which undoubtedly shows the importance of the issues we are dealing with. The measure we are debating today has various facets. Some of these relate to issues of great importance, which certainly require everyone's attention, because they are themes, such as gender representation, which are discussed not only in Italy but also throughout Europe. I would like to remind you that in some speeches, even last week, someone wanted to mention a measure which has been under discussion in the European Parliament just over the past few days and which concerned precisely this subject, which, because of its importance, I think should see the commitment of all of us. However, there are also aspects on which I believe that the Senate is at least out of time. For example, with regard to the part relating to the composition of lists between men and women, we are in danger of adopting a rule affecting lists on which certain movements and parties are currently collecting signatures for the presentation. In fact, we are already within the framework of the one hundred and eighty days planned for the collection of signatures. Moreover, as has been pointed out in some speeches, we are just over a month after the consultation itself, so we risk creating a vulnus that could then leave important problems open. In this respect, I think that the government should also give its interpretation, because in my opinion it is not correct to change the rules of the game while the game is in progress. Such a rule I think we would all have been prepared to approve it, as provided for in this measure, if it had been presented in good time, without problems relating to the collection of signatures in progress and when there was all the time necessary to be able to give certainty to the voters. This has not happened, and the Government will have to express itself in such a way as to give these clarifications to those who are engaged today. It is not easy, however, for a form of respect, not only for the movements and political parties that collect signatures, but also for the citizens and voters who sign those signatures. In fact, if you sign a list presentation on a list that has already been prepared, seeing names deleted can clearly create an embarrassment. Alongside all this, there is also another subject of great importance and of great topicality, which particularly concerns the provisions of Article 1 (1) (c) of the unified text, which reads: In Article 14, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: "The voter can express up to three preferences. In the case of multiple expressed preferences, these must relate to candidates of different sex, subject to the annulment of the second and third preferences." In this regard, the Group of Forza Italia, in the person of Senator Bruno, has presented its proposal, but I personally felt that I would make a different proposal through the presentation of a bill that concerns instead the possibility of a single preference. I believe that gender alternation, as far as preferences are concerned, essentially affects the right of expression of the voter. The European Union envisages a gender balance, but also in its official acts it has never intended - I read - to propose the imposition of quotas to rebalance the gender imbalance: the invitation is to the parties and political movements urged to set themselves the goal of having at least 40% women MEPs in 2014, as recommended by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is the hope, that is, not to impose, but to predict that the parties will give indications that there is such a possibility. We believe in this and I, in particular, believe even more in what I thought and I believe it to be the fundamental right, that is, the right to vote for whomever you want. For this reason, I have tabled a draft law concerning the single preference, in which I ask that the three preferences (with the possibility of alternation or not) be not provided for, but that there be, on representative lists of men and women, the possibility of voting on whomever you want. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has already expressed itself in this direction. I would like to point out, for example, that the Court, in relation to the mandatory nature of the man-woman criterion, has already expressed itself a long time ago, repealing the rule which required it. The reference was to the famous Mattarellum. The rule was applied for a couple of elections (if I am not mistaken, those of 1994 and 1995), then it was repealed. Today our Charter, in Article 51, provides for equal access and not guarantees of alternation or other formulas which may represent impositions of will. Among other things, in support of this thesis, I would point out that the subject has already been discussed extensively in recent weeks, in the House of Deputies, with the results of votes known to all. In that case, however, we were talking about blocked lists; instead, we are talking about lists which are not blocked, but which provide for preferences. So the point of my bill is to give a greater guarantee of freedom to all voters by being able to have access to this type of vote with the sole preference. We must also not forget that the Italian people themselves have already clearly indicated the single preference as a possibility of exercising the right to vote. I recall the referendum held in June 1991 (in which 62.5 per cent of those entitled participated), with a 98 per cent result in favour of the single preference. This was also reiterated by the Constitutional Court when, in its judgment repealing the so-called Porcellum, it wrote that it intended the expression of preference as a single preference, in line with the 1991 referendum, which was accepted by judgment No 47 of 1991 These reflections must make us understand the importance of the subject and, at the same time, the serenity with which it must be addressed. If anything is to be added to support, I think it is enough to remember what is happening in the rest of Europe. In all the rules that exist in Europe there are no forms of obligatoryness; indeed, in countries where there is absolutely no indication of gender representation (such as Finland, Denmark, Bulgaria, Estonia and Latvia, but I am talking in particular about Finland and Denmark), there are among the highest percentages of women's representation ever compared to all other countries. This means that, when the conscience and the formation of a people lead him to consider man and woman in the same way, looking at the skills proposed, the abilities and what everyone wants to give to the service of the country, of Europe or of the elective organ that you want, the citizen can express the unique preference, which is the most beautiful form of representation and voting, because it does not allow the stringed and those games of subpower that have sometimes favored and favored dubious characters. In this way, we can all hope to have what I said at the beginning of my speech. So the hope I make is that after this serene and civil debate the Senate can come to the definition of a path that gives citizens two fundamental elements for which we must respect them: certainty, as far as the first point is concerned, and freedom, as far as the second is concerned, with respect for everyone and the rights of all men and women. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u31	Madam President, women's presence in the European Parliament currently accounts for 27% of the total. It is an overall figure which, broken down by country of origin, reveals rather significant differences, relegating Italy to the last posts with a percentage of MEPs higher only than those of Poland, the Czech Republic and Luxembourg. For this reason, specific provisions that can contribute to a gender rebalancing in the number of Italian members to be elected to the European Parliament, thus bringing Italy closer to the European average, appear to be most appropriate. Votaz1con The text proposed by the Commission amends Articles 12, 13 and 14 of Law No 18 of 24 January 1979 laying down rules on the election of Members of the European Parliament to Italy. The rules affect the ability to indicate preferences in the vote and, at the same time, the gender distribution in the lists of candidates. A measure that allows Rome and Italy to move forward with respect to Strasbourg, where MEPs rejected a non-binding report on gender equality in the European Union, which asked, among other things, Member States where the representation of women in political assemblies is particularly low to consider the introduction of pink quotas. The report, signed by the Portuguese Cristina Zuber, was rejected with 298 no, 289 yes and 87 abstentions. Contrari the People, the Conservatives, the Europe of freedom. Much of the Green Group abstained as a slice of the Liberal Democrats. The draft law provides that, at the time of presentation, candidates of the same sex may not exceed half in each list, with rounding to the unit. In the list order the first two candidates must be of different sex. It provides that the circumscription electoral office shall verify that the list of candidates is respected as described above. Otherwise, the office reduces the list by deleting the names of the candidates belonging to the most represented gender, proceeding from the last of the list, in order to ensure compliance with the same provision. If the list, following the cancellation of the excess applications, contains a number of candidates less than the minimum required, it shall reject the list. It shall also verify that the lists of candidates comply with the requirements of Article 12, the eighth paragraph, the third period. If not, change the list order accordingly, placing after the first candidate the next one of different sex. Moreover, the provision provides that, within the framework of the three preferences provided for in Article 14 of Law No 18 of 1979, if the elector actually decides to express more than one preference, the choice must include candidates of both kinds, subject to the annulment of the second and third preference. In essence, at least one of the two or three preferences expressed must indicate the name and surname of a female candidate. Article 2 regulates the entry into force of the law. The approach of the law certainly finds consensus in the parliamentary group that I represent. On average, throughout the European Union, the pink representation weighs 27% on the number of all elected parliamentarians and in countries that are more open to women in politics, the 50% threshold is not reached. This is what emerges from the study "Actions for gender equality in the European Parliament, elections 2014" carried out by the European Parliament in view of the upcoming European elections to be held in May 2014. Produced by the Department of Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the Directorate-General for Internal Policies, the study compares the different degree of female representation in the countries of the European Union. The countries with the largest pink quotas are Sweden and Finland (both 43%), followed by Belgium (41 percent) and Spain (40 percent). The worst figure is recorded in Cyprus (11 percent) and Malta (12 percent). Italy is halfway down the road, with a rate of 28% of female representation. Just above the EU average of 27. The study, however, argues that the electoral system is not a determining factor in the election of more or less women. The data show that the mixed electoral system with open lists is responsible for both the best performance (the Swedish) and the worst (the Cypriot). To determine the possibilities of election of women, notes the study, is the interaction between the electoral system and the political party. With equal rules and conditions, in short, it is party action that decides the fate of its members. The basic problem that I want to highlight clearly and clearly concerns the timing and the way in which the measure is implemented. The bill was presented in the Senate on 9 January and has so far remained before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs without anyone stressing the urgent need to proceed quickly in view of the forthcoming European elections. Today, however, we want to speed up the measure at a time when the electoral machine is already heavily in motion. How can we question - we assume in twenty days, at the end of the legislative process of the measure, if it is successfully concluded - agreements carried out on the territory and candidatures already agreed and closed for a long time? The collection of signatures and the composition of the lists already launched today do not clearly take into account - and it could not be otherwise - the rules that are being discussed here. How could a party in a month and, above all, a new party fulfill the respect of gender equality, when it needs, on the one hand, to be rooted in the territory and, on the other hand, to include competent persons among its candidates? In this way one risks fulfilling only a legal obligation: filling a list respecting the man-woman alternation without addressing problems of a nature even selective in relation to candidates. Another strangeness is evident from the senate path of the measure: initially the bill presented to the Commission provided that within each list neither sex could be represented to a greater extent than two thirds of the total. We now come to a text which has been fired in the Commission so that in each list the same-sex candidates cannot exceed half. If the text had remained in its original version, it would have been easy to comply with the new provisions: a proportion of the sexes of 66 and 33 percent is easily respectable even in the course of work; but a proportion of 50-50 is difficult to respect and risks generating a mechanism of selection of candidates that clearly departs from that idea of meritocracy of which many are supporters only formally if they then endorse these questionable methods of changing the rules. The rules of the game as such must be stable right during the game because the risk is to distort the mechanisms. But even more so, there is a risk of creating even more discontent and mistrust towards the institutions. Try in a month to call into question agreements and words given on the territory. The risk is to get even further away from the people, from the territories at a time when the disaffection and credibility of the political system is already at its lowest, if not completely compromised. We cannot change a running law while the lists for elections to the European Parliament are already being formed. The rapporteur is also aware of this, who pointed out that the draft law provides for a triple gender preference, which was adopted in the Commission with a shared debate and which saw the contribution of the entire Commission, a male and female component, regardless of gender. You added that the draft law must be examined in terms of urgency, because the European elections are at the door. According to the rapporteur, it is actually a political responsibility to have arrived behind the European elections. The rule on equality - and I quote the rapporteur - comes after the current law has provided for two mandates, in a transitional way, to break down equality rules. But there is a problem of time: we went beyond the end of the hundred and eighty days to collect signatures for Europeans. The Commission has raised this problem and has spoken with the Government in order not to create conflicts. The Commission, which had already dismissed the measure, met with the representative of the Government who did not find a technical solution that would allow us to remedy this situation because there are already some lists that have started collecting signatures and none of us wants to interfere with the lives of the parties. Therefore, for the rapporteur, the simplest solution, both politically and technically, is to postpone to a second stage the rules on the composition of the lists and to stick to the principle of the percentage of 40-60. These statements give me some thought. If there are controversial points in the measure and if the time for the proximity of the European elections has expired, we postpone the speech or clear the current situation; we exclude the application of the new rules for the upcoming European elections in 2014 and we discuss calmly. The haste is a bad councilwoman; just observe the failures of electoral laws passed quickly to meet limited political needs timelessly. I conclude by saying that the rapporteur has said that she has had a positive climate (obviously in the Commission) and that until then she has not found serious objections, declared, so she can think of moving forward; she has said that she is going on like a train and that she is going to see what is going to happen in this House. If the rapporteur will allow me, I would like to give her some advice: we need to know the operation of the train, we need to know how to drive it, we need to listen to the needs of the traveller and the trainmaster and also to the directions and advice of the trainmasters. Driving the train only for the drunkness of the speed is likely to derail it. This is why Parliament exists: in order to allow the struggle of confrontation and the exchange of ideas which, even if driven by positive intentions, risk being a forerunner of controversial situations. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u32	In view of the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u33	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Technical Trade Institute of Udine, Cecilia Deganutti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u36	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President: "Pested at the tram stop and held for seven hours in a security cell at the police station despite having a broken rib." This is what several newspaper articles report referring to the case that involved Zeno Rocca, a young Paduan No TAV. Also from the news we learn how on March 10 Zeno, while waiting for a tram in the direction of the station in Padua, was approached by about ten agents of the rapid department who, coming down from a truck that had stopped abruptly right in front of him, after having pulled him, provoked and searched, forced him to pull out all the objects in his possession. The boy was explaining that he had just left the police station, where he went three times a week as he was required to sign, and was extracting the identity card, when he would be surrounded by the agents of the rapids and struck at the legs, chest, grabbed by the arms as well as handcuffed. Finally, he would have been in a security cell for seven hours without contesting the crimes for which he was detained and, above all, without having the possibility, despite the continuous requests, to contact a lawyer. Only in the evening Zeno, once released, went to the hospital, where a broken rib, cervical distortion and multiple contusions were reported to him. On the wrists the signs of the handcuffs tightened too tight. This is yet another case that follows that of Giuseppe Uva and many other episodes that certain politics and certain trade unions continue to minimize. Instead, it is time to put an end to these repressions by a third-world dictatorship police: rotten apples should be purified in the State Police and in general in the Forces of Order. No more humiliating climates inside these administrations! They are no longer individual episodes, but symptoms of a drift to which politics must, immediately, put a brake. In addition to the wish and the solicitation that the competent bodies, first of all the Ministry of the Interior, shed light on these facts, I appeal to all of you, colleagues (in fact not so many), and to the presidency of the Senate: we begin immediately to discuss the draft laws on the identification codes for the police forces. A 5 Star Movement text has already been deposited at my first signature from which you can start immediately. Let us keep up with all the other European democracies! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u39	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, today I bring the voice of some citizens, employees of the Cotir, denouncing their situation: Cassa Integrazione (for three months) by way of derogation for all employees who have the following qualifications: a picture, twenty-five employees and four workers. The employees were placed on a zero-hour working-time suspension supplement, with the criterion of rotation of workers with fungible tasks. And I would also like to denounce the ordinary folly that coexists in the political practice of those who have governed the Abruzzo Region in the last 30 years (I'm sorry to say, but you: PD, PdL, PdL, PdP minus L. or Pd.P. plus L., always you). The COTIR (Consorzio per la divulgazione e la sperimentazione delle tecniche irriga) is a limited liability consortium based in my city, Vasto, established in 1988 between the E.R.S.A., the Consortiums of Reclamation of the Valli dell'Alento and Right Pescara, Left Trigno, Sinello and Osento, Vestina, of the Valli del Sangro, Aventino, Moro, Feltrino and Osento (currently Consorzio di Bonifica Centro e Sud), the University of the Studies G. D'Annunzio, the University of L'Aquila, the Province of Chieti and the Municipality of Scerni, with the aim of creating structures, training staff and managing research and experimentation activities. The second Programme of intervention of the Special Project 35/Research, approved in 1982-1983, by the Ministry for Special Interventions in the Mezzogiorno, in agreement with the Ministry for Scientific and Technological Research, also after consulting the Committee for the Presidency of the Southern Regions, provided for the implementation in Abruzzo of the Centre for the Dissemination and Experimentation of Irrigation Techniques (COTIR). Under Regional Law No. 31 of 1982 and subsequent amendments and additions, the Abruzzo Region undertook to establish in its territory, also financially intervening, some research centers, including specifically the Cotir. With this law, the Region has not only undertaken to implement regional research centres, but also to intervene in their management with appropriate financial resources. The project, of approximately 25 billion lire, was financed by the former Cassa per il Mezzogiorno (Agensud) with the funds of Law No 64. Conventions were signed and, in short, good intentions end here. Instead, we come to poor management, in some cases even voluntary, to the bad practice of which is studded the history of Italian southernism and that of the centers of excellence. With the abolition of the ARSSA, the coordination function of research centres has not been assigned to any department under the Agriculture Directorate or other administrative and political authority; as a unique case of choice for development, never has a regional budget item been identified and assigned to this vital research centre. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u41	CASTALDI (M5S). Thank you. I am talking about a research center that has studied for years the aspects related to irrigation on the Italian territory and in the Mediterranean basin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have been given a few more seconds, but I would ask you to conclude. CASTALDI (M5S). This centre even has a spectrometer for nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, food traceability and characterization of some typical products. Finally, I am talking about a centre with projects approved for EUR 2 million. And I am also talking about a centre whose irresponsibility and political indifference condemns workers who have regularly worked in recent years not to receive their salary for 14 months! Congratulations to those who managed to kill only two hopes: that of the workers and that of the families. And that of good and useful research. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u44	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, with this speech I would like to urge the Government and the new Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities Dario Franceschini to respond as soon as possible to my question on the recovery and protection of the Church of Lauretana dell'Aquila, seriously damaged by the earthquake of 6 April 2009. The question is the 4-00755, filed on August 8, 2013. The Church of Lauretana is a real pearl of the artistic, cultural, historical and religious heritage of the city of Lauretana and is located in the square of the same name, where the annals indicate that there has always been a building of Marian worship, dating back to the construction of the defensive walls that took place in the 13th century. Despite its priceless value, enhanced by the presence within it of many works dating back to 1607, the Church of Lauretana has never been included in any of the official documents indicating the cultural assets of Aquila to be recovered and safeguarded after the earthquake of 6 April 2009. On all the report of the activity of the structure of the Deputy Commissioner Delegate for the Protection of Cultural Heritage following the earthquake of 6 April 2009, dated 28 January 2010, and drafted by Vice Commissioner Luciano Marchetti, in which, precisely, no mention is made of the Church of Lauretana. In addition, despite the municipal administration's declaration on 20 August 2010, by official act, the complex of the Lauretana area in the short term, therefore urgent to be rebuilt, following the agreement of 17 June 2010 between the mayor Cialente and the commissioner delegated to the reconstruction, it is still not possible to present any project aimed both at the separation of the Church of the Lauretana from the Institute of Sisters of Mary Help of Christians, built in the seventies, and at the recovery and redevelopment of the entire area. Immobilism and silence do not help to make clarity, rather they contribute to fueling the dangerous voices, circulated in recent weeks, that would see the area of Lauretana at the center of clamorous building speculations. A further important piece of history of the city of L'Aquila would be sacrificed in the name of profit and private interests. The new minister Dario Franceschini on 3 March visited L'Aquila and stressed that the culture and monumental heritage must be the vital element of relaunching the territory of Aquila (and on this we fully agree). The church of Lauretana is part of the right of this heritage and the silences surrounding the story are frankly incomprehensible. For these reasons, I urge the Minister to reply as soon as possible to Question No 4-00755, at my first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u45	Undersecretary Pizzetti may represent the urgency you have indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-210.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.23 a.m.
