ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u6	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to inform the House that, pursuant to Rule 94 of the Constitution and Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, we have tabled a motion 1-00322, of which we are calling for calenderisation for next Tuesday. I wanted to specify that we filed the motion with the prescribed number of signatures, that is more than one tenth of the members of the Senate, to ask the government for the distrust of what happened not only in Genoa, but for what is happening in Parma and Maremma. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government doesn't do what it should do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u8	CIOFFI (M5S). Ma'am, give me a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's provided for in the calendar. There will be a discussion on these issues. CIOFFI (M5S). President. - As the matter is a little serious, if the Group makes a motion of no confidence, you cannot prevent me from specifying... PRESIDENT. - The debate is The motions of mistrust are then scheduled for the Conference of Leaders. CIOFFI (M5S). As vice-president of the Group, I would ask you for a minute to explain the reasons for this motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Speak a minute, then there will be places to establish the schedule of works. CIOFFI (M5S). We have identified two types of government responsibility: one is of an omissive nature, as it did not intervene in a timely manner, and one is of non-supervisory nature, as it has not monitored what it should do and has not intervened in a precise manner. Moreover, the government is talking about sburocratization, but in this case it is a deregulation. We are going to aggravate an already very serious situation. If this is the direction of the government to think of solving the problems of the country, which is in dramatic condition with regard to the problem of the failure and loss of things and lives, well it is better for this government to go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u9	Motions can be scheduled by the Conference of Leaders. In the coming days, I believe Tuesday, there will be instead the discussion on the government's information on the emergency that has occurred, to which will be connected the discussion of motions on the defense of the ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u10	The next item is the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator will write on his card a single name. The person who gets the highest number of votes will be elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call is made, the ballot boxes will remain open until the beginning of the call on the question of trust. I therefore declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal. Mr Volpi, Secretary, made an appeal. (The voting operations followed). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind my fellow Members that it will be possible to vote until the call on trust, which will be around 7 p.m. The ballot boxes remain open, so we can vote without particular procedures, provided that we have not already voted, because of course we can only vote once. My fellow Members will also be able to vote in the course of the proceedings; the Heads of Groups may support the participation in the vote of the senators who come to this House, who will not be called but who will still be able to vote. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1637 already approved by the House of Deputies. I remember that in the afternoon session the Government put the question of trust on the approval of the single article of the bill n. 1637 of conversion of the decree-law of 22 August 2014, n. 119, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I call on the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the House on the relevant financial cover profiles, but I do not see them here. I would remind you that colleagues who still have to vote for the election of a Senator Secretary can do so by going directly to the prepared urn. (Senator Azzollini enters the Chamber). As President Azzollini has now arrived, I invite him to report on the profiles of the 5th Commission he chaired.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u12	Mr President, I will report very quickly, because the text that has been presented and on which trust has been placed is identical - in this way taking up good practice - to the text approved by the Commission and which comes from the House, and therefore does not present any further news. For this reason, accompanied by the technical progress report, which has been successfully verified, it also receives the budget Commission's nullity. The debate that took place saw only the intervention of a senator, who posed some problems of coverage which, moreover, did not concern the novelties introduced by the House, but the original text. The Government has, however, given answers that have confirmed the existence and appropriateness of the cover provided for therein. That's what I had to report, so we don't have any reports to make. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u13	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u14	Mr President, we are going to vote, if I am not mistaken, on the 22nd trust placed by the Government within just over six or seven months. I remember - not out of controversy, but by historical fact - that whenever the governments of the center-right have made use of this instrument, the voice of the supreme guarantor of the constitutional order has intervened and has risen loud, that is to say of the President of the Republic who, like Homer, probably in recent times has fallen asleep. I say this because we have been in this House for more than a year now examining decrees proposed by the Government approved at the end of the deadline necessary to convert them through the use of the trust institution. Basically, we are faced with the full and complete expropriation of the legislative function, and this applies to both the House and the Senate. I had the opportunity to say the other evening, quoting Popper, that the majority must not think that democracy is, in fact, the tyranny of the majority itself and that it suffices to have gathered - in this case with a Council President not elected by the people - a majority within the Chambers in order to proceed with blows of decrees and blows of confidence. I believe that among the many merits that can historically be ascribed to President Berlusconi there is one in particular, namely the fact that, until he ruled, Italy had a proliferation of vestals of democracy, of cerbers and guardians of democratic orthodoxy and of respect for the regulations and the Republican Constitution. Having passed into disuse that Government and that majority, in the most total indifference that connotes those who draw on dual morality, that is, the morality that applies to others and that makes grace of the morality that must be true for themselves, are continuing with a pseudo-democratic regime, but in the dictatorial substance, in which the form of government of the Executive goes to superimpose the legislative power and expropriate it. Senator Zanda said the other day that in the age of globalization decisions must be quick. Since democracy is a waste of time, within the framework of the democratic concept of Parliament's management we must not be shocked if someone comes here every now and then and, within four or five hours, by presenting documents which are, moreover, very often unknown to those who are to vote on them, must proceed in accordance with this principle of speed, in a telematic and globalized society, which therefore looks at the old parliamentary democracy perhaps as a burden or as a useless harp. If we want to draw a paradoxical consequence from this, we should say that he is better a dictator, because he decides in a few minutes also taking away what has become a burden, namely the exercise of the vote that, with the reform of the Senate, the Government has already conculcated to the Italian citizens. Cicero said that history is a teacher of life, and I hope to find in this House, with a government of different signs, the same good-timers who are distracting themselves in these months and weeks in front of this real fetish to put a trust every twenty days, because they will return to being the vestals of democracy. The sincere democrats, as the friends of the Communist Party once said to distinguish the left-wing independents, the Ossicini and the Rhone, who were yes-democratic, but were sincere because they played the left-wing. We come to the decree on our examination. This measure, like many others, is masked by the name: it has provisions on the recognition of international protection and to curb violence in the stadiums, but it also contains a whole series of provisions that have nothing to do with the object of the decree. Not that this can scandalize us, but it is a further proof of the riffazzonato, epidermal, farsesco way with which this Government, which claims to be able to revolutionize and reform Italy, carries on its normal management. Within this decree we have an extraordinary allocation of funds of as much as 113 million euros for the Ministry of the Interior, which should serve to improve the reception of the exiles who land on our coasts, and should also improve the reception regime in the places where these poor people are transferred. At the time of two o'clock: either we are making a measure to improve the issues of immigration and reception (I believe that this is a priority over stadium violence), or it is a cadeau to Minister Alfano, to whom, being vice-president of the Council, funding is likely to be tight, and therefore we must give him EUR 113 million. I remind myself and the bystanders, at least those who still have the ability to blush, that EUR 60 million were not found to bring from EUR 34 million and EUR 100 million to the food banks for the poor and the poor who belong to the Italian people, who are not migrants and do not ask for political asylum, but turn to Caritas or other national organizations to be able to disassemble a hot meal at noon or in the evening. Do you not think that everyone should be blushed when we charge 113 million euros - and Senator Azzollini said that there is coverage - and do we not find, even today, 60 million to feed the Italians who are below the level of poverty and poverty? Shame! Shame! Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Someone in here has pushed their backs or is wasting time, like the good Tonini (who is going to call outside the Chamber!); I quote him because he is one of those champions of Catholic solidarity, which this time does not itch, because he must keep the ally. Tonini, what happened to the food banks? How is it that you, the community of Saint Egidio and all the hypocritical fraternities, shut up? From time to time you use charity and solidarity for political purposes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of Senator Tonini]] Yeah, I'm mad at you. TONINI (PD). If I may be of use, I'd love to. D'ANNA (GAL). While we give 113 million euros to the Minister of the Interior, who is the vice president of the government, you did not propose to post 60 million euros for food counters. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For you are one of those who come from solidarity, charity, sacristies that do not smell of incense but of hypocrisy, I challenge you to make this proposal, because you are part of the majority. Gentlemen, be ashamed! The government's lords are ashamed! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u15	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u16	Mr President, after that of Senator D'Anna, I believe that my speech will be considered with rose water. Mr President, Article 77 of the Constitution provides for the extraordinary need for urgent decision. Article 77 of the Constitution opens with the imposition of a limit to the legislative activity of the Executive, so the Government cannot, without delegation of the Chambers, issue decrees that have the value of ordinary law; the second paragraph also reads that the exceptionality that characterizes the adoption of the decrees is specified by the expression "in cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency": I repeat it again. It follows, Mr President, that the meaning of the clause provided for in Article 77 has been completely distorted. It also follows that this Government has overly eluded the constitutional significance of the norm, transforming the decree-law into a purely political instrument, for the use and consumption of the majority, which has an extremely political attitude with regard to the aims it has set itself. For the umpteenth time, therefore, since the game is extremely useful, the Government uses this instrument in a totally improper way, emptying Parliament of its prerogatives. For those who think of abolishing the Senate in this way, I think it's quite normal. You have once again humiliated our work and the work of the Commissions. You have, for the umpteenth time, excluded the possibility of putting in condition the opposition to ring a series of amendments or agendas to ensure that the text was improved. Among other things, some parts of the text were acceptable: in some parts, the decree had a capacity to understand what is happening in sport and, specifically, in football; but, as happens very often, your decrees are a gardener, the one that gets into the cold rice, of things put together without the homogeneity of matter that the Constitution itself provides. This is where the donkey falls, ma'am. The donkey falls on those 113, 120, 130 million that are hijacked on operation Mare nostrum; two words that have never been mentioned in the title of the measure. They would probably have blown up even those who know little about politics, those who perhaps read the text of the decree only en passant in the newspapers. You didn't have the courage. Call things by their own name: it is a decree that serves to finance operation Mare nostrum. That's all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It has little to do with stadiums and violence. If most of those laws on the question of safety at the stadiums were correctly applied, there probably would have been no need for this decree. But you of communicating vessels are perfect connoisseurs; where there is some money, you make a decree and with that little tube, just of communicating vessels, the money is transferred from one chapter to another. But do not think those who listen to us from home that this money comes from Europe. It is 130 million that Europe absolutely does not give us, not least because this cooperation, which is always talked about, between the 27 States, in these cases, has not come at all. It is our money, I would say nostrum money, that goes to fill the crazy expenses of a humanitarian operation that has no precedent, because the approach that was given by this Government, starting even from the Letta Government, has been deficit and at least willful in the positions it has taken. It also has no precedent because 150,000 individuals have entered this country. We had already denounced it in October last year several times, but neither Letta, nor his successors understood what was happening and did not want to accompany the rescue operation at sea a decisive action of prevention and deterrent aimed at hitting the bases of traffickers of men in the Libyan territory. Action that, had already happened and had been considered a not positive thing, even if then it had turned out to be a genius, moreover, at the time of the Berlusconi Government with the then minister Maroni, when he went directly to the place to contract, given the inability for Italy to welcome these subjects. There's plenty for everyone, Mr. President. There are for all 27 countries that have had the inability to help with Frontex. They invented all the names of this world to change the name to the problem, but the problem remains. As we did this morning, we also denounced the whole issue of safety or insecurity in our health system at the time. We denounced the TB issue a few months ago and you gave us racists. We also denounced this morning the issue of the Ebola, which is messing up the cards a little bit to several states, not only Americans, but also Europeans, for the inability to keep the bar straight in order to ensure that the controls are absolutely timely and necessary. I would like to refer to and take this opportunity to recall a motion approved in the Regional Council of Lombardy, which calls for the provision of digital thermometers to Lombard airports for the detection of body temperature at a distance, such as those used in the United States, and for not a month to this side, and for the monitoring of passengers from Africa for about twenty days. This motion, Mr President, has been sent to the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, and we are just curious to see what kind of result it will have. That the decree was an omnibus had been understood for a long time, but that there was an unevenness of matter it was understood only after, because it was really tried to undertake the way of financing to an interior minister who, with a figure of 130 million, will only satisfy even more those who want to get on a boat and move to this country. Let us continue to tell ourselves the story of the bear, that these subjects want to go to Northern Europe: but when they reach the borders of Austria or France - not to mention Switzerland - they are bounced, as everyone knows. There is also an issue related to the fact that when we moved, in the last parliamentary term, to block the departures in the bud, the result was excellent. Then, however, we thought of going to bomb Libya, for issues related to that place in the sun that in the twenty years had characterized some ideas and politics clumsy. We are thus in a situation where about one million people are on the coast to push and enter this soft belly of Europe, Italy. We also put in our own, because we are masters to make all these people think that there is everything here that they want and that they can get everything. I was wondering, however, how many other things it would be possible to do with all the money spent on Operation Mare nostrum. We will give a great deal of visibility to the issue next Saturday 18 October, when towards evening in Milan there will be a great demonstration organized by the League against these landings and operation Mare nostrum, "Stop the clandestine." We will try to understand the response of the people, because it seems that the citizens have no say in the matter, while we will urge them, among other things, even in our referendum. I was therefore wondering, Mr President, how many things could have been done and could be done with all that money, rather than spending it on our own in an operation in which all the European States say that we are very good (and I think so!). And how many more will we spend on a problem that is far from being solved? In fact, since it has become quite simple - it's about going back and forth - it's clear that the movement to Italy will be increasing. Perhaps we would have had some money for our companies to save, for a few less taxes, for young people - among whom the unemployed amount to 44 percent - and for that 14 or 15 percent of unemployed at national level, including many people who will not easily find a relocation being in a 50 to 55 age group. Well, on October 18th we will make a great demonstration, that is very clear. It will be a demonstration that will bring many people to the square in Milan, who may not even have voted the League, but who will come to hear our verb. We are extremely proud of it, because it represents an ability to advertise something that for good buonists and good salons must be absolutely silent, and to which we will breathe... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u17	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u18	Mr President, as usual and, unfortunately, I would add, we are dealing with sensitive issues and issues for our country in a way and in a completely confused form. I say this because we really do not revisit any of the reasons - even if they were very forced - that on other occasions of decrees presented by the Government, even though they were rugged and heterogeneous, there could be, because perhaps there was an element that represented a line of homogeneity. In this case we do not have this either: we are dealing with sensitive issues, but absolutely separate. To this style, is added the absurd demand - and obtaining, therefore - confidence. These are sensitive issues, on which I challenge any Member of the majority, questioning his conscience, to give clear answers today. Personally, I manifest my limitations, but I just don't understand certain things. How is it possible, with regard to the drama of violence in the stadiums and the objective of making it stop to allow, for example, families to return to participate in these events, to make a whole list of measures, including that of charging the costs of the Forces of Order and the Firefighters to societies? By what means? I guess, having excluded others, through the price of the ticket. And I add: Forces of order and Fire Departments. What about the city police? And the costs that local authorities have to bear, for example in large cities, in the whole of the metropolitan fabric, costs in some cases copious and even higher than those related to what happens inside the plants? Increasing the cost of the ticket is a hypocritical and Pharisaic way of establishing that families will no longer participate in these events, without hitting precisely those violent subjects who have all the problems less than finding, at any price, access to those events. This is really contradictory. As always, honest and peaceful will pay. As always, as was the case when the so-called fan card rule was set, which harms constitutional rights by preventing a person who has no problem with justice, neither past nor present, from being able to go with his family or friends to attend a sporting event outside his region of residence: things from a medieval state! We do not want to go beyond these limits and give back rights to honest people, perhaps poor people, or rather, we will introduce the crime of poverty in a specific way soon. It already exists materially in our country, and it continues to clutter. Indeed, around an event that obviously moves the consciousness of many women and men in our country like that of violence in the stadiums, serious issues are introduced surreptitiously, which deserve an in-depth discussion, serene and scientific, such as the electric gun, the so-called Taser. In this regard, too, I challenge any MP of the majority to bring opinions or opinions, but certainties regarding the countries where Taser is already in use. I do not know if you know this: it has already produced hundreds of deaths and I am not referring only to the United States and Canada, many of which are under the heading "accidentally killed" because it is said that it was not in itself the Taser instrument that provoked them, but the conditions of the subject against whom it was applied. And excuse me if it's a little: a person who could have had heart problems, could have taken alcohol, which is one of the contra-indicated factors. What are we gonna do? Do we want to establish the death penalty for those who commit any kind of crime? So, actually, everything would have been expected, but not this. At least - I give you a tip - identify the heart of a decree, to that perhaps applied the confidence, propose a mechanism that guarantees certain times and very fast, but focus on some issues. Even in the general debate that took place yesterday, several Members of Parliament asked questions, to which they did not even answer and immediately passed to the incorporation of the rule into the legislative mechanism, a rule that becomes operational. Surely some order of the day will pass (already I imagine it) of some senator or senator of the majority who will say "make good use of it," "use carefulness with the gun Taser": this I have heard. Of course! But it is clear that we will have the problem and the responsibility will be entirely on us, out of date, from tomorrow, while - as has been said - on some of these issues we should have dedicated a specific moment, a serious and scientific confrontation. The same goes for our proposal to bring the serial number back to the helmets. See that I, like others, have received great appreciation from the Forces of Order for this proposal of certain references, obviously in the correct forms of guarantee of confidentiality and secrecy, because it guarantees that vast majority, thousands and thousands of exponents of the Forces of Order that every day carry out their work with seriousness and correctness in order to surely identify some rotten apples that exists; and we have unfortunately had tragic proof of it in the days, months and years past. But this rotten apple will not feel unpunished and hidden and it will not be necessary to resort, when possible, to some footage that will clarify how things have gone. It will therefore be an element of guarantee for the Forces of order, the honest ones, which are - I come back to say - the vast majority. Why is this impossible? Because it is impossible to achieve a result that might see divisions, but - I am sure - these would not go through the majority and opposition blockade. These are opinions and decisions that we could all make with full awareness. Actually this is what we have to do to change step, because otherwise we respond to today's emergencies with these decrees that make water from all sides, that do not answer, do not solve and do not even alleviate the problem, but produce new ones, problems that really, on this delicate front, there really would not be need. With this lightness we are proceeding with these issues. Can we suspend, take a step back? Let's think.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u19	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u20	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Ten seconds. I have seen a lot of attention while saying these things, but at a certain point, attention falls and individual responsibility falls. Let's keep it all the time. In this case, for this reason, we will vote absolutely against the confidence placed on the adoption of the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 119. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u22	Mr President, it has been recalled that we are at the twenty-second confidence demanded by the Renzi Government in recent months, which, beyond the absolute number, means that trust is now the ordinary method by which the measures are approved, which, in turn, are almost all decrees-laws. This means that everything that the Constitution has provided for and everything that all previous governments have always tended to be respected has been overturned in a heavy way. Each government has been accused, whenever it puts trust or most of the times it adopted a decree-law, of wanting to cut off the discussion, but all previous governments have made sure that a reasonable percentage of measures are examined in the way that the Constitution has foreseen. Here - now - the ordinary method of law-making is instead the decree-law; the ordinary method and I would say almost unique to examine it in this House is trust. To this it is added that, very often, in these measures there are delegations, perhaps very vague and also contrary to the Constitution, like those of the so-called jobs act (when you want to make some confusion you use words, maybe even grammatical, of another language, noble, but that is not ours), other tools are used, or the delegation is sometimes clear, but then you use it depending on how it suits you. A certain widespread trend today would speak of fixation for procedures and say that the important thing is to do things. So let's see things first. The results of this doing things is that problems are not solved: in most cases they are aggravated. All economic figures are worse and ISTAT is forced to give daunting data across the board; in other areas too, problems are obviously not solved. Here we have a series of measures that seem to me to be volious and with some aspects very similar to the Manzoni cries. Since you have not been able to apply the previous laws, which are of course there (it is always forbidden to commit violence in stadiums or elsewhere and it is always forbidden to rig competitions, especially if there are bets), all right, then let's do another Manzoni scream. Since the expression "manzonian grid" is often used, it would be worth taking a look at what the Manzonian cries are. This is the first chapter of "The Promises of Marriage," to which it is good to take a look. In fact, there is not only the problem of making a useless law, but also that of aggravating the penalties, of making them even unreasonablely heavy and of asking that they be applied even when you are not really sure of the guilt, or if there is only the suspicion of guilt - I mean of course the Manzoni cries properly said - so much so that in the end what triumphs? Arbitrary. In fact, the penalties are so heavy that no decent judge applies them, but it can happen - there is the example, always in the same novel - that someone, being a victim, is taken for guilty and is, in fact, the one who then pays in the end. The point, however, is this: the arbitrariness, the law, the Constitution, the Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate serve to ensure that there is a guarantee for everyone; that there is a guarantee for the powerful and the weak, for the rich and for the not rich, for those who are at that time in government and for those who are not in government because they are in opposition, or for those who will never be in government because they are not even in opposition, in the sense that it is the citizens who, for the most part, take much of their time to do something else, luckily. There is also a need for those who produce in everyday life. We too produce something very important in these classrooms and essential to the rest. We should lay the foundations for civil life, but if the rules are trampled on or made without the possibility of Parliament intervening, it means that the laws are made in hidden offices where the writers do not sign them, where the texts cannot be discussed, where opinions cannot be compared and where there is no transparency at all. So, the service is exactly opposite to what you should do. We give citizens a confused picture; we invite citizens to do what is done in these classrooms and, above all, in other government buildings, that is to say, using the rules, doing things conveniently and without transparency, not accountable to anyone and without having to explain the measures. In the rare cases where the amendments are actually discussed, we see a burst of yes and no or, better, a burst of no with some exceptions: the opinion is contrary to all the amendments, except those tabled by the Government. I remember, among the very upbuilding episodes of the recent legislative activity of the Senate, that, at the end of July, while the epochal and decisive - I emphasize the ironic - reform of the Constitution, for the decree of competitiveness containing dozens of very important measures - had been programmed about three hours to face the very reasonable number of amendments (which were about 500), given the large number of articles to examine and the importance of the arguments - in fact only one hour was used because after it was said that there was no more time and they could not be examined. At that time the government's amendments were approved with the results we see. Do they step on the rules? Do they go beyond the procedures? The role of Parliament, which, with all its imperfections, represents the people and is the only instance in which the reasons are confronted, where the citizens can control: but at least the results are there? Unfortunately, the results are not there and are exactly the opposite of what should happen. But history repeats itself: soon the so-called Italy unlocks the Senate, which had a very curious iter. It was announced in July and then was written during August, until September. We do not know who was heard, but certainly not the representatives of the people. If it was necessary and urgent why didn't it happen in July? The need and urgency is to make the decree-law, to expel Parliament. That is the real need. We have rules here that go completely the other way. There is total unevenness. Let us remember that a few days ago the Constitutional Court, with a judgment, in my opinion, very questionable, deleted in full the rules that concerned drugs because they had been approved in 2005, since then constantly applied and never modified by Parliament, which every day had the possibility to do so, because back in 2005 they had been put in the decree where there were the Olympics of Turin, which had nothing to do with it. In the same way, it has nothing to do with the Mare nostrum mission - which, by hypocrisy, does not even appoint itself - in a measure which allegedly would be for the violence of the stadiums. Where is the homogeneity of matter? Similarly, the organization of the Ministry of the Interior has nothing to do with the rules concerning explosive materials. But where is the homogeneity? I think we are counting on the fact that the Constitutional Court judges in one way the laws made by governments of a certain political part and in another by other governments, but it is not certain that this happens. The Constitutional Court is not certain that it is constantly biased; it may be that the Constitutional Court applies the same rules to the laws approved by the enlightened and decisive Renzi Government as applied to the Berlusconi Government and to other governments. And if he does, this provision is destroyed for two thirds. It is true that this is always the case; as has been said before, in this case too, the urgency was to give money for the madness represented by the Mare nostrum mission, in order to move forward without saying that it is Mare nostrum, and then hoping to pass it on to the European Union in some way, which has clearly told us that it will not do so. So, even if the Constitutional Court abolishes it, things have now been done. The beauty is that then those who do these things are those who do conferences, laws and school indoctrination on legality. What a beautiful thing legality when it suits me. When you don't like it, who cares about the Constitution, the Senate Rules, the laws, the Constitutional Court? The important thing is to make your own comfortable. As I said this morning about the procedures that have been followed, be careful, because when you violate the rules, the others will probably do so against us. I repeat again: let us remember how those who made a cheerful use of the guillotine at the time of the terror of the French revolution ended: they ended up under the guillotine. Attention. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u23	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to say that I will vote for this measure for the important elements that exist regarding immigration, the humanitarian capacity of our country, respect for human rights and the presence of rules concerning violence in the stadiums, considering that the issue of citizens' security in this field is very important. That is precisely why I would like to make a few remarks, but once again I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cociancich, for the punctuality of his remarks, also because we had also drawn up an agenda on this subject. There is no doubt about stadium violence that very firm action is needed, but I still think that, alongside these, I would have preferred an investment in this measure too on the prevention and culture of prevention and violence with regard to sport. I find it very important that sports societies be made responsible, there is no doubt about it, but I think that we can and must do more at an educational and cultural level in general. This does not mean, as has been said this morning by someone, talking about culture, but making sure that a common sense is created so that sport, and football for what is possible, becomes a sporting event and not that bilge of violence and corruption that we have witnessed in recent years. This is very serious because we are talking about the most popular sport, a sport that is accessible to all and I believe that we should give a stronger moral and ethical address. However, I would like to focus the few minutes I have left on the other subject, which concerns the experimentation and use of the electric gun. We have discussed a lot in the Commission and given a detailed opinion with observations. I hope that the government will also take our suggestions into account for the future, with all the humility of the case. There is no doubt that an electric gun is an alternative to the bullet, but this is not enough to justify a decision that I think has been a bit hasty for many reasons. Firstly, because the electric gun is defined by the name of the manufacturer and I would avoid writing in a law a methodology of this nature, which brings with it other possible accidents (yes, because there is only one company in the world that produces these guns); secondly, because we know that there are very conflicting opinions on the electric gun: there is a UN declaration that defines it as a tool of torture; there is a very strong perplexity of Amnesty International. I therefore think it is right to say that we are experimenting, there is no doubt, so there is no final decision. I would have liked and, speaking on behalf of the members of the Health Commission, we would have preferred that the reference to the relationship between the relevant ministries, including the health ministry, should also be made more clearly with Parliament's involvement. I believe that once the experiment has been carried out, within a year, if not less, there must be a report to Parliament to know how this gun has been used, how many times, in what types of event, on which people and what the consequences have been. All this is central to getting another weapon into the public security system. I would like to raise this criticism because I believe that the security of people has two faces: on the one hand, security in not being attacked and subjected to violence - and therefore the intervention of the Forces of Order is right - but then there is also the side of individual freedom against oppression, of which Italian history teaches us to have memory. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] President. - The debate is closed. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u27	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last football season there has been an exponential increase in the cases of violence in the stadiums: the questionable character who rose to the fore in the news such as 'Genny' in carrion and the painful disappearance, on 3 May, of the young Ciro Esposito represent only the apex of a very difficult moment crossed by the sport most followed in Italy. The statistics after a football match recorded real war bulletins and, compared to the previous season, the matches with wounded, both among spectators and among the Forces of the Order, saw a substantial increase. This has led to the use of an increasing number of security resources, with an increase that has exceeded, in just one year, an increase in the use of police forces alone of 14% of the staff, for a total cost to the community, quantified by the head of the Police, during the hearings held by the Commissions of Constitutional Affairs and Justice, of as much as 25 million euros: more or less as would cost the construction of a medium-sized and new stage. In our view, on this last point it is necessary to deepen: most of the clashes happen also as a result of desuous, dilapidated systems, often completely unsuitable to contain a regular sport competition. The large amount of state resources used to cope with the increasing use of Forces of Order could be allocated, otherwise, to incentives aimed at achieving more appropriate stages and, once again, in line with European standards. The comparison with stadiums such as Dortmund, Bayern, Chelsea or Manchester United, but also with smaller teams in major European championships, is merciless. Unlike what is said, the laws would be there. In 2002, precisely by Article 90 of Law No 289 of 2002, a fund was set up to improve or purchase sports facilities, initially designed for amateur clubs only and then extended to all other sports clubs. That fund, with last year's law of stability, has been increased by as much as 45 million euros and with the same law it was expected administrative simplifications regarding the issue of authorizations. It is always with a view to modernising the facilities that Civic Choice has asked that part of the proceeds that will come from article 3, paragraph 3-b, that is that share-part of the revenues coming from the sale of the tickets that the sports companies will have to pay to the State, was destined not only to finance the overtime of the police forces, but also to increase the fund for the modernization of the facilities of which I have spoken. It is in fact with the prevention that we can avoid the unpleasant events we have been forced to attend, and installations responding to the most modern safety techniques can certainly help in this regard. This would also allow sports clubs and their presidents to do something very simple: take on the burden of ensuring security within stadiums through stewards paid by the same companies; in the English Premier League it already works that way. In other words, we could avoid limiting ourselves to statements of principle and act concretely, because it is convenient to talk about freedom when the police then take the beatings and it is the taxpayer who pays the Forces of order that guarantee, or try to do so, even sometimes making mistakes, the security of the stadiums. Unfortunately, with the budgets already in red, the last thing the football clubs will want to do is spend money on security, or on more modern and hospitable stadiums, relying on the fact that football, to paraphrase the famous saying, is not too big to fail, but is too important to fail, and that therefore the Government and the Minister of the Interior will continue in any case to send the Forces of order to the stadiums. It could be concluded that the moral hazard is not only valid in the banking sector, but that gambling continues to apply in this practice. Beware that the decline of football is no less profound than that of the country as a whole. The figures speak for themselves: the public in the stadiums falls more than GDP, on average at a rate of 5% per annum. Professional teams have seen, within six years, double their debt and now the spread has widened between the revenues of our clubs, concentrated almost exclusively in TV rights, and those of the English, Spanish and German teams. The time has therefore come for a very dry turning point. I would just like to add two points to the chapter on international protection measures. In this regard too, we could and should have (but on this point, as far as we are concerned, we will return) avoided what we called tourism of international protection. Too often non-EU citizens find themselves asking many questions around Europe for the sole purpose of obtaining refugee status. In many cases, applicants have already launched the same application in a foreign country, often with negative results. These requests, in fact, come mostly from citizens repeatedly repatriated to the country of origin and who depart from this again in order to reformulate a new instance in another State without, moreover, the same being founded on no reason worthy of different evaluation. With this in mind, our Group had requested that the international principle of ne bis in idem should also apply to this case, denying refugee status to those who saw their practice already pending in another State of the Union or, even worse, had already rejected their application. This can only be achieved by providing the different territorial commissions (finally there will be different ones) for international protection, which rightly the Government's measure intends to increase, with databases suitable for carrying out these checks. Having overcome the critical issues that I have tried to point out, the judgment on the measure on our part remains positive, especially if we refer to the extension of the measure of DASPO against subjects that, although not being condemned or denounced, turn out to have held violent conducts, the forecast of the closure of the host sector for the matches defined at risk violence and the extension of the simplified discipline for the necessary adjustments to the requalification of the stadiums, with the hope that this time, indeed, such interventions can take the start. And it is with this hope that the Civic Choice Group will vote for confidence. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u30	ROMANO (PI). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, in thanking my fellow Members, Mr Susta and Mr Cociancich, and the Health and Health Commission for their work, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for Italy and I ask that I be able to give my speech so that it can be annexed to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u33	Barani (GAL). Madam President, we are faced with the umpteenth confidence placed by the Government, which changed the chorus of a famous song that said: "Marina, Marina, Marina, I want you to marry as soon as possible in "Trust, trust, trust, I want you to marry; O my beautiful Boschi, come and ask in Parliament." The Commission's uncertainty is becoming clearer and yesterday's vote on the DEF Update Note is further proof of this. That is why it is acting with confidence, not trusting its majority and continuing to mortify Parliament and the prerogatives granted by the Constitution to the legislative power. We are therefore faced with a defiance of legislative activity. I dare not think about what would have happened in the squares if President Berlusconi had done so: we would be in the civil war! [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] This de facto attitude feeds political confrontation at the expense of the issues of substance contained in the individual measures. We are forced to choose whether to accept and not accept the complete package, as if we were talking about an organized trip and I believe that President Renzi the organized trip did it from Florence to Rome. On the other hand, Parliament has the right and, at the same time, the duty to analyse, discuss and modify each part of each measure: we are once again deprived of this duty and this right, which first prevents a constructive confrontation which could produce appreciable results, but which in fact makes this House more and more like a ring, in which only numbers seem to be counted at the expense of content. We in the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group - at least for the two-thirds majority - will not trust the Government in this decree, although we know that there are different positions within us. However, we are a democratic group, which leaves us free to decide, precisely on the basis of what is the constitutional dictation, unlike what happens to many others, which are like those battery bears - battery that are not how long it will last, but at this moment enough - that give confidence and walk until the battery lasts, except then jump off the support. This situation is frankly mortifying, especially considering that often and willingly the Government's request to measure and show muscles through the matter of trust frustrates all the work of the Commissions. I remember that in the last parliamentary term President Fini, of which I do not have great esteem, more than once did not admit that the Berlusconi Government raised the question of trust and more than once was critical, all too much, because he was part of the opposition, as we have seen then. The President of the Republic himself, "sbianchettava": this is a very common expression in the former communist party, in which they knew how to blanch everything that presented those who considered enemies, that is to say the opponents who had to fight. Today it is the same President of the Republic who seems powerless: he writes and sends us letters, he urges us to make actions that are considerable and urgent that are homogeneous. With this measure, however, we find ourselves like the cabbages to snack: what does violence in the stadiums have to do with operation Mare nostrum? What's the deal? That is what an illiterate man would have said, who has made a career because he is a judge, since there is this dictatorship of the judiciary in Italy. As for the content of Mare nostrum, we believe we can say that we cannot share it because, colleagues, these foreigners in Italy cost us about 2,400 euros per month. We have our young people who are unemployed, we have the elderly and the workers who are unable to reach the end of the month; we have 14% unemployed and we commit EUR 2,400 per month per immigrant. Some of these resources will be given directly, cash; others will take care of the associations, which will have to keep them and which will therefore have a cost; other resources will be spent on the insurance issue. We therefore have an incredible amount of resources. And what does Europe do? He's watching us. He doesn't give a damn. Merkel is happy: the more non-EU countries arrive in Italy, the more GDP in Germany and its purchasing power increase; the more it weakens Italy economically, the more its banks prevail. So, in summary, we believe that there is a lack of urgency and the simultaneous entry into force of the rules laid down in the Council of Ministers. In addition, the content of the measure is imbued with heterogeneity. I have already spoken of Mare nostrum: there is a character of necessity that we frankly do not repent in the refinancing of this burden that Europe leaves only on our shoulders, and that the Government has included in this decree with triple fatal jump backwards with carpiato and cross screwing, deserving of a gold medal. But a gold medal for what? For the damage it does to the Italian economy and to the families, that they do not manage to reach the end of the month. This government is starving families. The need would perhaps be found in the needs of pensioners, unemployed young people and so many parents who cannot support their own livelihoods, their families, their children, and prevent them from sending them to study even when they have qualities and abilities. "Meritos and needs" is our slogan, I will never stop saying it. Instead, in this measure, with the refinancing of Mare nostrum they settle, they throw away and they waste all these resources. To do what? To make the Mediterranean a real tomb; it turns what was the cradle of civilization into a grave. In the light of all this, even less is the demand for confidence understood, which we cannot give to a very large majority. We can only regret the path this Government has taken, because we believe that on security in stadiums the Commission had to allow the debate and the contribution of everyone. The speaker is a person who was in Brussels in 1985 when the Juventus Cup Final was held between Juventus and Liverpool, which Juventus won well. There we had 40 dead, but Thatcher had the iron fist, ability and quality certainly far superior to those of Renzi, in fact now in the English stadiums you can go, as some of my colleagues said, with the family, with the children; it is a fun, a picnic. Here we go to war; here our workers, the Forces of Order, are at war. They are fathers of the family, workers, who know that they are endangering their physical and even legal safety, because if by chance to defend themselves they dare to touch a black block or a hooded one they are condemned and they all find themselves against. It is even asked to put the numbers to our Forces of Order; they are asked to number them as if they were imprisoned. And even those not in uniforms must be recognized. Let's write to him "Jo Condor" so black blocks, gangsters and thugs can get them right; so they also recognize them in street demonstrations against terrorism. But I say, do you realize that with this the complacent doctor stinks the wound and the patient dies? We do not need Italy to die; we need it to live. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked to have been able to tackle this issue without leghold traps and armor. Mr Malan, in a very correct way, said: give me the floor before you put your trust; at least let us speak. We would have preferred to argue, but you don't want to. I feel like I'm back in the 20s, but in the 20s there was an intelligent person named Mussolini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish your speech, Senator Barani. Barani (GAL). Beyond the merit of the measure, on which I repeat that there would be a lot to discuss as it is not entirely acceptable, not even for the part relating to the fight against violence during sporting events, our Group cannot give confidence. Of course, since we are a democratic group, unlike the Democratic Party, which is not democratic, we leave free those of ours who believe that they are trustworthy. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u36	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I will be brief by announcing the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, on the one hand, I perhaps understand my fellow Members who are no longer even prepared to make an explanation of vote: they clearly only announce how they will vote, because the script is repeated too often. We're ironic, but I don't think there's anything ironic about it. The expropriation of Parliament is such that, even before the opposition senators, the majority senators should perhaps make their voice heard. I remember, Madam President, the experience of the Prodi Government in the 15th legislature (2006-2008): despite the fact that the Senate had only one or two votes of difference, we welcomed the fact that the second financial law was passed without a vote of confidence. In fact, it was not only a bet, but it was also a strong exercise of participation, in which every senator, certainly in the majority and in compliance with the decisions of his Group, could have the opportunity to exercise his prerogative and his legislative function and also make his own contribution. This is no longer the case. I repeat: it has become, in my opinion, an unsustainable situation, which is independent of the objective situation. I believe that today's decree did not contain too many amendments. There was, however, also a willingness on the part of the rapporteur (I quote him because he said this morning that, specifically, the agenda for the trial of this infamous Taser gun could be accepted); instead, trust came. Therefore, the possibility of finding elements to make their contribution is also absolutely excluded. In this particular case, there were not a large number of amendments. Indeed, if we had examined the amendments, we would have already finished, perhaps we would have finished earlier. There is, therefore, something sick and pathological: it is no longer even a question related to contingency, to the fact that a Government, as provided for in our Constitution, can decide to put trust on an element that becomes fundamental and pivotal to its own program. No: the idea that there is an Executive, a Government, that decides and that the function of Parliament is only and only that of converting through trust, so without even having the opportunity to give its contribution, the decree-laws. I say it quietly. They are also decree-laws (we repeat them in an obsessive and continuous way) that do not have the constitutional requirements and are in open and continuous violation of the constitutional norm. Take, for example, the decree-law under consideration. The title speaks of violence in the stadiums and then inside there are various norms (some of which we share, such as those concerning Mare nostrum). The question of the increase in the means of the Forces of Order is included in this decree; the experimentation of this very questionable electric gun is included here too; other measures that have absolutely nothing to do with the title of the decree itself, that is, the fundamental matter that is that of violence in the stadiums. The homogeneity is therefore absolutely excluded, and I believe that urgency, as regards at least the rules against violence in sporting events, would also be absolutely questionable. Obviously, however, no one is more surprised by this situation - and I regret it - given this use and abuse of the decree-law. I hope then that the President of the Republic will make his voice heard because we cannot continue to humiliate Parliament in this way, expropriating it in a clear and definitive way of its legislative function. Constitutional reform has only made a first step to the Senate, it still has to make others and, therefore, we cannot continue to manipulate the Constitution and move on to produce decrees and acts that are in open violation of constitutional norms. Moreover, in this decree, on which for the umpteenth time the Government puts its trust, we are dealing with extremely sensitive issues concerning personal freedoms and that, with the excuse of intervening to suppress and curb the very serious phenomenon of sport violence, in reality introduce a number of elements that we consider very dangerous from the point of view of the freedom of citizens. They certainly intervene by limiting the individual guarantees that are typical of a democratic state and by abusing rules, such as those that had already been introduced with the DASPO, even extending very discretionary powers. I am merely an example of the application of the DASPO only through mere de facto elements and conducted also abroad, practiced as a group, and therefore contrary even to the principles of territoriality and personal responsibility in criminal matters. For the truth, many of these rules have, in my opinion, absolutely unconstitutional profiles and I hope that sooner or later there will be a judge who can send some of them to the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, it was necessary to understand preventively - this yes - it had to be the subject of a serious measure - how to return to action on sporting events - especially those of football, because you know that in smaller sports there is a very strong element of participation of children and families - through a series of prevention tools. Instead - I repeat - another choice has been made. I want to say with great determination that this choice will ensure that the application of these rules, which will be, alas, approved, will be extended; we have already seen, as in the case of late arrest, that these measures are then applied to cases which have nothing to do with violence at the stadiums. Given also the combined arrangement with the decree unlocks Italy, which makes strategic some works on the territory, we therefore believe that these instruments are absolutely questionable and that in the future they can be applied inside, as public policy, even to suppress - as we have already seen - movements that oppose some works on the territory. For all these reasons, we strongly announce the vote against the Mixed-SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u42	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to be disrespectful of this Parliament, but we can only emphasise once again the absolute opposition on our part to this decree and to this way of proceeding with the current government. This is a shameful measure (and I also address the representative of the Government, who should at least be in a very embarrassing position). For the umpteenth time we use and abuse the instrument of the decree-law, on which the question of trust arises for the umpteenth time, sinking the legitimate and democratic parliamentary prerogatives and preventing the citizens outside these palaces from having the real news of what really happened here. Our opposition concerns both the method adopted for the examination of the decree and the merit of the provisions contained in it, especially in the light of the passage that had not only here by us - lightning, between yesterday and today - but also in the Chamber. This decree-law, let's really say, is not the decree stages. It is composed of 11 articles, four of which partially concern the theme of violence in the stadiums, while the other sects speak of anything else. I therefore believe that it should be called more properly with its real name: this is not the stadium decree, as it passes on the news agencies, but the immigration decree. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is the reception decree - we want to say it out loud - which finances with an additional EUR 130 million new assistance towards alleged refugees, but which are mostly potential illegal immigrants. This is why we also announce here that the League will bring the theme to the square with a great event, which will take place next Saturday, October 18, in Milan, with a procession starting at 16.30, which will arrive in Piazza Duomo at 18, to say enough to the bankruptcy operation Mare nostrum [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Enough with this invasion, which we are subjected to every day, and enough with the millions and millions of euros that leave the state's coffers for the maintenance of a number of illegal immigrants unmanageable and now out of control! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We have already had more than 100,000 accessions and we invite all the citizens who can no longer join us than a government that thinks and cares about all the others, instead of them, all those anguished citizens who want to join us to make their voices heard and to assert their reasons. Why do we say this, speaking of this decree? Because in this measure, in a shamefully devious and hidden way, the Government and the Minister of the Interior, rather than dealing with finding and allocating resources for the real emergencies of our fellow citizens, allocate 130 million euros for the reception, subtracting them from the Fund expulsions. To the tune of 1,200 euros per month given to illegal immigrants, thanks to Mare nostrum, operation that costs us 9.3 million euros every month, we have 2.5 million pensioners in our country who live with less than 500 euros per month. Disabilities are given only shameful monthly subsidies of 250 euros, and resources are not allocated to the unemployed, the Cassaintegrati and our Forces of Order, which every day are exposed to any kind of risk on their skin, including for health, in the face of the dramatic situation of exposure to diseases that are spreading, such as scabbia, tuberculosis; not to mention the real danger that is coming thanks to the waves of illegal immigration and is spreading in the West, namely Ebola, [[Comments from the PD Group]] This government doesn't have to worry. In fact, it minimizes and irresponsibly pretends that the problem does not concern us. In the face of all this, we want to say what the truth is to those who listen to us. In this decree, new 130 million euros are allocated for immigration. I ask myself, and I ask Parliament, the Government and Minister Alfano, that there is no money here: why is immigration again financed with additional millions of euros, which already receives - it should be remembered - 300 million euros a year from the state's coffers? Mostly it is illegal immigration, because then I will say, ladies and gentlemen, what are the true figures of the real phenomenon, the numbers that say exactly the opposite of what the Government is supporting, namely that this decree goes to finance asylum seekers, while it goes to finance also those who ask for asylum, to the request to be able to obtain the state of political refugee, have no right. It is absurd to allocate this money to finance new reception exactly when we have a country where the vast majority of citizens are hungry. We have a country where youth unemployment is 44.2%, general unemployment is 12.5 percent, a million families have no income from work, 7 million workers earn less than a thousand euros a month, a country where there is a daily death of companies; and what does this government do? Instead of paying attention to their pensioners, instead of recovering resources for the Integration Fund, it increases by EUR 50.8 million - that is the truth! - the National Fund for Asylum Policies and Services and allocates EUR 62.7 million for another Fund, which has not been clearly defined, which has not been understood because it will not be understood what its aims are, money recovered from the Return Fund and the expulsion Fund, just what it would be useful to do! We believe - and we say so - that the truth is that this Government, as demonstrated by this decree-law, has the will to continue to maintain and finance Mare nostrum! We in the League say this to our fellow citizens, to the exhausted mayors, who no longer know how to cope with the disaster of their municipalities and territories, to those prefects - few and of common sense - who denounce themselves to the Government the impossibility to cope with new receptions and realize the absurdity, inability and total irresponsibility of this Government and its way of proceeding. Whether Mare nostrum or Triton - which is a different name to say the same thing, because this is how this Government proceeds: always mystifying the reality and telling lies to the citizens and mocking them - we clearly say that these operations must stop immediately. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. Bravo! Shame! Bisinella (LN-Aut). That our borders should be closed and protected, that rejections and removals must be implemented, as the alarm clock Spain did only a week ago, which refused within a few hours 2,000 landings. This is the only way to make it clear in Europe and to the Member States that they too must take on the problem and help manage an unprecedented migration phenomenon! VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. Bravo! That's right! Bisinella (LN-Aut). We must move on to the facts, just go to Europe just to chat! And let's make it clear to those who accuse us, always instrumental and demagogic, of racism and everything else, reporting the numbers I have spoken about: asylum seekers, those who really have the title of humanitarian protection because they flee from wars and situations of serious threat to their lives and that they certainly and have to be helped, are only a small part of those who land. The numbers of the Ministry of Interior say that out of 135,000 landings the applications for international protection were 35,000, the requests accepted for political refugee status are only 3.784! So what are we talking about? Of the 130,000 landings, was the asylum application granted only for 3,784 people? These must be protected, but all the others must not: they are illegal immigrants. That is what the European Commissioner said. It is right that the other states take care of the problem and we ask for it and we will ask for it with a loud voice next Saturday in the square in Milan among the people. We say that clearly and openly. [[The Senators Bisonella, Comaroli and Bellot show a T-shirt with the invading "Stop." Milan, October 18, 2014" while the other Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the same inscription.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u43	Conclude Senator and remove the cartels, please. I would ask the assistants to proceed with the withdrawal of the cartels. Where are the quaestor senators? Bottici quaestor, please proceed to the execution of the order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u44	Your time is up, please conclude. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Let me finish with one last line: there would have been much more to talk about on the subject of sports events and stadium violence. [[Senator Crosio displays a sign from the banks of the NCD Group bearing the above written text.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u45	Your time is up, since you're wasting time with the cartels.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u46	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Then we say loudly, and I apologize to the fans if I steal them a very effective slogan that I've seen recently... (Senator Crosio refuses to hand over the cartel to parliamentary assistants.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, deliver the cartel. I have to take your colleague's word off. That doesn't sound polite. Bisinella (LN-Aut). I would like to close, Mr President, by saying: do not close the curves, close the borders. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u49	Conte (NCD). Madam President, already during this morning's debate I stressed not so much the importance, but the need for this measure in relation to some serious episodes of violence that have occurred recently, but with similar seriousness in the past. It is a worrying signal of the degradation of typhus in the stadiums, in particular in the football stadiums; situations that require an intervention of the Forces of order even to a substantial extent, which are thus diverted from normal services on the territory. I would like to recall this morning's consideration, in line with the considerations of other colleagues, in particular Senator Maurizio Romani, of the need for this urgent measure, which has the character of repression, to be accompanied by interventions aimed at greater education in typhus; initiatives to be carried out by the various bodies and agencies involved in the practice of sport. Sports societies, sports federations, but also schools, parents and civil society: many can make a contribution, not so much to suppress (it is too late) but instead to prevent the phenomenon of violence in the stadiums. It is superfluous, but significant, to remember how for some sports (Senator Maurizio Romani recalled rugby this morning) violence does not exist. A different mentality is needed in the approach to sport by athletes, a different approach on the part of fans and above all different education in the practice of sport and typhus. To achieve this goal it is necessary to initiate a process whose results can only be achieved in the long term, being necessary to affect the behaviour, habits and sensitivity of people. We are in a European context and therefore the comparison with other countries is opportune; it is true that there are between the various European States the countries in which already accidents in the stadiums and outside the stadiums are frequent, but there are also countries where fans can attend in peace of mind the meetings without being locked in compartmentalized zones, without fences and protections. If Europe is to serve us, we also need it to follow these examples and seek this type-approval. However, the serious incidents that have occurred require urgent interventions that accompany others previously adopted, because it is necessary to bring typhus back to the stadiums within safety limits compatible with giving everyone the opportunity to enjoy this show, to return the stadiums also to children and families, so that it is truly a celebration for sport. With regard to the rights of each citizen, I believe it is important to ensure that those who want to be able to attend sporting events safely. The decree also contains interventions to deal with the difficult situation created by the consistent and persistent phenomenon of the landings of refugees on Italian territory. It is the subject of debate, criticism, controversy, political exploitation and demagogy. Here, on 31 October the Mare nostrum programme will cease, but the landings will not cease and there will have to be other forms of intervention, which will not fall, in organizational and economic terms, only on the Italian State. There will then be other types of controversy and new exploitations, because the issue - let us not hide it - is political. Perhaps, then, the criticism will say that we cannot give adequate answers to the problem; then, perhaps, we will awaken the humanitarian feeling and that of the reception. It's a movie I've seen. With this awareness, we of the New Right Center Group are preparing to vote on the conversion of this decree-law by voting on the confidence of the Government, sure to assume in this way a useful measure to the Italians and the Italy Country. I would like to take up an issue that has already been addressed in this House. This decree-law expires on October 21st and today we are on October 15th; the provision was assigned to the Senate only a few days ago. The theme is that of a fair distribution of the times between the House and the Senate. With more time available we could have deepened the decree and perhaps improved it. I therefore renew my invitation to the Presidency to identify, with the House of Deputies, the right forms of linking and time-sharing. By being able to work better, with less controversy and less trouble, we will certainly be able to produce better measures. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u52	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are today for yet another confidence, for yet another decree. It is now clear that Parliament has been emptied of its usefulness and role. We are no longer in a parliamentary republic; we are no longer in a real parliamentary democracy. We've become something else. The government makes decrees, makes changes to the Constitution, makes laws to delegate itself and also puts trust in it, now considering Parliament a useless harp without any raise of shields from anyone. By now we have become truly a useless harp, perhaps an uncomfortable one for our President-in-Office of the Council (in fact, for your President-in-Office). We are examining a decree-law which, once again, is unconstitutional: this must be clarified because it is not a matter of evaluation, but an objective fact. It is a decree that should be urgent and homogeneous, as the Constitutional Court says. It is so urgent that, announced on 3 May, in the light of the events that took place, it was then promulgated at the end of August. It has been four months and so all this urgency was not there, to show that in those four months Parliament could work quietly on a bill and - perhaps - do it even better. But let us also go on the subject. First of all the name: decree stadiums. Here, too, we should start a study of the names we give to the decrees. I remember the feminicide decrees, IMU, TARES and unlock Italy. It's become a fashion of the name. This is done in order to strike the emotions of the citizens, because - it is known - stadium violence is something to be condemned. We condemn it without if and without but, yet this serves to hide many other magicians, like a Trojan horse. So the name is to hide what's behind it. As I said, there is talk of violence in the stadiums. It is undeniable that it should be condemned, but I would like them to be condemned and there were certain penalties for all other categories of convicted persons (also the so-called white collars). It is pursued in the activity of repression although, as already widely demonstrated, the same did not bring any result, otherwise today there would be no need to raise the bar. We keep raising the bar, who knows what we're gonna get at. The increasingly empty stadiums, increasingly anonymous and increasingly distant from the logic of sport as a means of education for all. There is not one normally within this decree - one - that includes investments in education and cultural promotion, cultural growth, education on sport. You also rejected an agenda of Senator Serra, who committed the Government to providing for ways of bringing children closer to the stadium. We have not even accepted the increase in penalties for those involved in sports fraud, those that should be hit first. Even the television rights that could be an element from which to draw a large part of the resources that have been allocated to some interventions have not been touched. The famous article 9 of Law 41 of 2007 that we are going to amend is a matter now known to many of the parliamentarians who during the election campaign go to look for typhoseries, which are a pool of votes easy enough to win with simple promises during the election campaign. Article 9 simply prohibits the sale of tickets to those subject to measures such as DASPO, i.e. removal from sports facilities. It is correct; it is right, however, that the amendment of this rule provided for in the decree also provides that, when you are sentenced, from that moment, for five years, it is forbidden to sell tickets. I'm just taking a classic example of what's going on. A person suffers - even - up to eight years the DASPO, with removal from sports facilities and then maybe a sentence comes, after that person has rehabilitated, he has made a reeducational journey and has returned to the stadium, for a stupidity or the launch of a firecracker that has not had consequences and in which that person has not been active: he finds himself for another five years not having access to sports facilities. This is not a sanction that has an educational role because there is already the DASPO that should have this role, yet we continue the same with this unreasonable norm. Here too, we have tried to introduce a simple clause at the end of which it is forbidden to sell tickets to those who are convicted of acts of violence, provided for the same reason that they have not already been convicted of being removed from sports facilities such as DASPO. Then you have also added to the anti-mafia code, in the part concerning prevention measures (which usually start from Article 416 of the Criminal Code and other fairly serious cases of crimes against the State), to a pre-existing provision whereby even the quaestor, for those who have been the protagonist of acts of violence during sporting events, can take preventive measures as a prohibition of residence in a territory. It was not enough as it was written; you had to add more. A sentence is added to the standard whereby such measures may apply to persons who, because of their conduct, are to be considered to be committed to the commission of offences. I want to see what will happen and on how many occasions such a measure will be used in an instrumental and discretionary way, even at events other than sports events. The measure provides for another interesting thing with reference to the above mentioned procedure provided for in paragraph 5-a of Article 1-c of Decree-Law No 28 of 2003 converted by Law No 88 of 2003. This is a special procedure which provided forty-eight hours for the authorisation procedures for the adaptation of sports facilities. At the same time the conference of services could be convened and within twenty-four hours it had to express itself. It was a very accelerated procedure when the numbered posts and turnstiles were introduced into the stadiums, which by decree had to be put to work immediately. Well, this procedure is now also being introduced for retraining in the stadiums. We can already imagine that from tomorrow those who had to do requalifications in general terms in the stadiums will be able to avail themselves of this procedure surpassed with silence assent. In this measure, to put everything and more into it, you then introduced rules on international protection. In particular, I would like to represent how the territorial committees have been fivefold. A slight increase could be necessary to facilitate the work, but you have increased the territorial commissions from 10 to 20 and at the same time the territorial sections from 10 to 30, in fact for a total of 50 commissions; each of these, in fact, can have an exclusive presidency, while before the presidencies of the territorial sections were attributed to the alternates of the commissions. We will therefore have 50 presidencies, you never know: an armchair for everyone is always there, even for a territorial section for applicants for international protection. Then there is the derogation from the Internal Stability Pact for municipalities that have been identified in Sicily as being subject to migratory pressure. This derogation applies only to 2014 (it is never known that it can also go to 2015) and only a few municipalities have been identified. We had asked to be able to extend to all municipalities affected by migratory flows for expenses exclusively related to that type of intervention, but you opposed it. We asked for the extension at least to those with reception centres, but in this case too you refused. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to talk about the Taser electric gun, a further danger for future demonstrators. The decree-law in question introduces for the first time in Italy the use of a new weapon, that is the so-called Taser electric gun, which has been included by the UN in the list of torture instruments and is strongly discouraged by the Amnesty International body. This gun, which is considered a weapon of non-lethal deterrence, fires a 50,000 volt discharge (in the home, in the electrical socket are 220) that paralyzes the movements of the affected person, causing the muscles to contract and making the individual harmless, often with effects so negative that they lead even to death. Amnesty International claims that Taser has killed some 864 people since 2001. We tried to avoid in every way the introduction of this useless weapon, dangerous and totally foreign to our culture, but the pact between PD and Forza Italia provides that the fake central-left government introduces repression measures aimed at limiting, reducing and compressing individual rights and freedoms of expression and criticism. We hope and implore that the dead will not escape us again this time; however, if so, it is good for the citizens to know who is responsible right now. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] Imagine what will happen in a few years: there will be a Movement that will have to present a motion of distrust to some Minister who will surely have some bond of kinship or friendship with the society that will provide these Tasers, because surely this is a further brand, like the electronic bracelets. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u55	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done. On 3 May, as has already been mentioned, before the final of the Coppa Italia Napoli-Fiorentina, in the presence of the President of the Senate and the President of the Council of Ministers, all those who were at the stadium, but especially those who attended the game on television, saw that the game started with great delay and started only by courtesy of Genny's carrion, otherwise it would not have been contested. At the same time, the fact has become, in a negative sense, a global phenomenon highlighted by all international media. Unfortunately, the situation in football matches has been in these terms for about twenty years and saying this I also denounce the lack of my work, since for a few years I have dealt with this problem without reaching results. I remember that the phenomenon was imported by hooligans in the 1980s. England, the nation that has taught modern sport in the world, has even seen its teams excluded from international competitions, because one could not accept the devastation that hooligans brought to England and throughout Europe. The British have addressed the phenomenon through preventive measures, organizational measures and simple criminal sanctions, fast and consistent with the Anglo-Saxon legal and criminal system, which looks at the substance and indulges less than our formalisms. This decree-law instead does not deal with organizational problems and prevention: it hardens the sanctions, but they do not scare those criminals - excuse me, colleagues, but I define them for what they are - who indulge in these acts. First of all, we need to focus on the organizational aspects. Those who go to the stadium today are subjected to similar checks as those to which they are subjected by plane. Well, at many games we see that smoke cannons, signs and banners of tens of meters come out, which of course contain racist phrases or incite violence. Why is this happening? This has been happening for 20 years, but it has not been possible to protect itself. Soccer clubs and law enforcement agencies know at least 95% of those who perform these acts of violence on the occasion of matches: why do these people continue to operate and let themselves be operated? Until a few years ago, perhaps they were even helped by giving them tickets. Now this is no longer the case, but a game of truth about what's behind it has actually not been done. Well, if the government had wanted to try to put an end to a phenomenon that is - I repeat - worrying and difficult to deal with, it would have had to discuss with societies, also in terms of economic prevention, in order to find a way to address the problem, since the way in which we have dealt with it for twenty years has not produced results. And it is certainly not this measure that also sets the beginning of the solution to our problem: this is good to be clear. Colleagues Senators Gasparri, Malan and Mazzoni spoke with seriousness and concreteness of the problems related to immigration: their arguments well explain the reason for the no of Forza Italia also on this issue. I stress that we are running the risk that the psychosis of the war between the poor in the country and the risk that the many Italian citizens who struggle to live decently are induced to think that their condition depends on situations related to the problems of immigration; maybe someone thinks that they are being taken from them resources to devote them to immigration policies. Instead, it is necessary to trigger a virtuous path of coexistence, starting from serious and concrete acts, but it does not seem to me that this happens with this decree-law. For these reasons the Senators of Forza Italia will vote two no: one to the provision and one to the confidence in the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u58	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure deals with two important issues: the safety of citizens when participating in sporting events, more commonly known as security in stadiums, inside and outside, and the humanitarian emergency against refugees who, colleagues, have the right to international protection. Of course, security is a challenge that today characterizes our society, it is a challenge that we are talking about in recent years, certainly a new generation right, a constitutional right of rank, a right to be admitted gradually in our regulatory system. This decree deals in particular with the issue of safety in stadiums, sports activities. This topic, colleagues, has only been touched in the past years, until in 2007 it touched the peak of violence with the killing of police inspector Filippo Raciti: you will remember those dramatic sequences that we all saw on TV, it was during the clashes connected to the soccer game Catania-Palermo. The investigations, also on that occasion, confirmed what we knew and underestimated, what was seen and omitted to denounce: the connection of sectors of the fanship with common crime, but also with pseudo-eversive crime and with the same mafia crime. Colleagues, three were the main answers then, in 2007: the arrest in delayed flagency, a general tightening of the DASPO and, since 2009, the fan's card, with discreet results. A trend has been reversed, so much so that there has been a certain decrease in violence at sporting events. Recently, there has been a recovery, almost as if a certain addiction to the cure has been achieved that, since 2007, had entered our system and a certain violent dynamic has recovered. The murder has also returned (see the story of the young fan of Naples Ciro Esposito, hit last May 3 before the race between Naples and Fiorentina, final of the Italian Cup). Therefore, the path taken in 2007 to improve and ensure a higher level of safety is resumed. Of course, the need to better support the modernisation of the stadiums and neighbouring areas remains open. In the decree, there is a fund that improves this aspect, but the country is not yet able to compete with what has happened in other European countries, where the stadiums have become a great resource of socialization, of leisure, with the presence of families with many, many children. It is also expected that sports clubs will become increasingly responsible, an aspect that opens up new avenues, but which needs to be expanded even further. Sporting societies are a resource, of course they must accept a challenge: the challenge of legality, which must be combined with the sport economy. Economics and legality are not separated and should not be separated when organising sports activities and when structuring the life of fans within sports activities. In addition, the decree also provides for the growth of the organisation of sports clubs, because we believe that fans should know not only the line of rigour, the toughest penalty possible, but also the cultural way, the practice of non-violence in the same organized fans. But we also know that it is necessary to hit sports fraud, a sign of corruption often and repeatedly emerged in recent decades in the world of football. Here too, maximum rigour, because when corruption and match-fixing come out, the effect is devastating, credibility is lowered and of course also the sports world is read with the glasses of all time: the country, Italy, where events of a certain weight are organized and then, in the end, corruption meets. That is why the decree-law intervenes in order to extend the scope of the arrest in deferred flagrante during or while sporting demonstrations are taking place; increases the penalties for the crime of fraud in sport competition against corruption; inserts for the companies the prohibition to pay contributions, facilities or to distribute titles of access to persons sentenced for the counterfeiting and the abusive sale of the same titles, as well as to the recipients of DASPO. The decree also provides for the extension of the possibility of violation of the prohibition to introduce banners in the stages inciting violence and gives the Ministry of the Interior the possibility to close the stadium for guest fans for serious reasons of public order. The decree also tightens the discipline of DASPO, increasing its duration for relapses and extending it also for group conducts in Italy and abroad, of course for active participation in episodes of violence, threat and intimidation. A provision has been inserted in the House that has caused much discussion, but honestly this provision in Italy is indeed late, as it is present in all the main countries of the European Union. I am referring to the forecast that a share of between 1% and 3% of the revenue from the sale of tickets at stadiums will help to cover the costs incurred by the State for security and public order, with particular reference to the payment of overtime and public order allowances for law and order forces. There is talk of a significant figure, of about EUR 25 million. It is a way to expand, of course, with a state that stimulates the economic growth of sports clubs. The other aspect addressed by the decree-law is the growth of migratory flows, accelerated by the crisis in the Mediterranean countries, with the increase in demand for international protection by as much as 139 percent in the last six years. Of course, colleagues, our country is called to a very hard test in the reception and protection of those immigrants who have the right to be recognized as refugees. We have recently recalled the tragic event that a year ago saw the slaughter of immigrants trying to reach the island of Lampedusa. Italy has been moved, politics has been moved, but then we have often resumed a stale dialogue in the end, which becomes a conflict in this Parliament too, with the use of a language and an approach that do not tell the truth. It hides that we have a duty of international protection of asylum seekers and refugees; it hides that the reception, the rigorous and serious one, is not a limit for a country, but is a sign of a great civilization that we have in society today and that rarely emerges in the political debate. While it is true that the problem must be tackled in a broad way and must see Europe and the international community more present, this cannot, however, put us down and make us behave like cowards. Immigrants are human beings, they deserve respect and protection. The traffickers of human beings, colleagues, are the problem to be hit hard and with the greatest severity. In this decree there are also resources made available to the Forces of the Order: they are few, but also of the excellent resources. The Democratic Party also wanted to set up a fund to ensure that the State Police and Fire Departments could modernise. We have also supported those municipalities on whose shoulders the acceptance weighs entirely, making sure that national funds were created so that there was, from this point of view too, a shared responsibility and not delegated only to the Sicilian Municipalities which, I must say, are giving an exceptional proof of value, of self-denial, as well as financial and economic commitment. Colleagues, we are therefore faced with a decree-law that we must approve. The Democratic Party votes for confidence because it has ideas and believes that the security and protection of immigrants are not only a duty, but also a democratic commitment to which we gladly carry out. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u59	I declare closed the vote for the election of a Senator Secretary. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the scrub of the ballots. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Archeri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Brouglia, Bruni, Bubbico, Buccarella, Buemi, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanello, Candiani, Cantini, Chiacchione, Cipelletti, Cioffirinci, Cardinali, Caraero, Casaletto, Cassano, Casson, Castaldi, Ceroni, Cervellini, Cavaroli, Chiolini, Ciopolino, Ciopolino, Ciopolino, Ciopolino, Cioffinci, Cioffinci
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u60	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the single article of draft law No 1637.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u61	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1637 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 119 of 22 August 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fasano is drawn by lot.) They asked to vote first, and I have granted it, the Senators Secretaries, Barani, Berger and Di Giorgi, because they must proceed to the strip of the cards of the previous vote, as well, for strictly documented institutional reasons or for serious personal reasons of health, the Senators, Giannini, Nencini, Vicari, Zanda, Zeller, Formigoni, Nugnes, Sacconi and Colucci. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bianconi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippini, Filippino, Findin, D'Onghio Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippini, Filippini, Fincinocino, Fincino, Fincino, Fingo, Findi, Fingori, Fingori, Finforni, Finari Giuseppi Giuseppini The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Auricchio Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bignami, Bisinella, Blund, Bocca, Bocchini, Bondi, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Bell, Bignami, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocca, Bocchini, Bondi, Botti, Botti, Bruni, Bruno, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Bell Bell, Crymi, Crymi, Cris, Cappellett, Carrare, Carraro, Casaleetto, Castaletto, Ceroni, Cervelli, Cervelli, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Comaroli, Compagno, Compagno, Conti, Cotti, Cotti, Cotti, Cotti, Cotti, Crimi, Chromi, Crosio, Crosio, Crosio, Crosio, Crosio, Crosio, D' Gaetti, Gamano, De Petraro, De Petraro, De Petr, De Petros, De Petrrusrus, De Petr, De Petrusrus, De Petrus, De Pin, De Sin, De Sin, De Sin, De Sin, De Sin, De Sinio, De Sin, De Sian, De Sian, De Sian, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giottoottoottoottoottoottoottoottoottootto, G PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1637 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 119 of 22 August 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 273 Majority 137 Favorable 164 Contrari 109]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 119 are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u62	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a Senator Secretary: [[Senators present 279 Senators voting 279]] Senators got votes: [[Sibilia 198 Vacciano 20 Falanga 9 Mussini 2 Gibiino 2 Dispensi 5 Scheda bianche 25 Scheda nulle 18]] I declare Senator Cosimo Sibilia elected secretary, to whom the Presidency wishes good work. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u63	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Thursday 16 October, at 4 p.m. for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As already communicated to the groups for the short routes, the information of the Government on the recent alluvial events and the discussion of the related motions on the defense of the ground will take place Tuesday 21 October, from 12 to 14, with continuation in the afternoon and with the understanding that the vote on the motions will take place in the afternoon session. In addition to what has already been communicated to the House this morning, I would warn you that, as agreed by the Conference of Leaders, following the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council scheduled for Wednesday 22 October, a debate will follow which can be concluded by voting on motions for resolutions. These instruments should be presented before the end of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u66	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am only speaking to clarify the afternoon sitting scheduled for tomorrow at 4 p.m., which you have not informed us of.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u67	We have not said, perhaps I have missed it, that tomorrow's afternoon session of question time will not take place, because it is in conjunction with that of Parliament in a joint sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-332.ana.u69	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.28 a.m.
