ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting the votes on the amendments tabled in Article 1 continued. Waiting to decorate the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice, I take the opportunity to answer a request made last night by Senator Lepri, relating to the times: the 5 Star Movement has a residue of 3 minutes and 13 seconds; the Mixed Group has run out of time; the North League has 27 minutes and 24 seconds; For Italy it has 1 hour, 10 minutes and 39 seconds; For Autonomies it has 1 hour, 14 minutes and 8 seconds; Great Autonomies and Freedom has 8 minutes and 17 seconds; Civic Choice for Italy has 1 hour and 7 seconds; Democratic Party has 3 hours, 26 minutes and 33 seconds; Forza Italia has 2 hours, 16 minutes and 30 seconds. Then there are also times for dissenters.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u7	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as you can see, the Rules of Procedure are being completely unraveled in my hands. This will probably mean something, perhaps because of the blows you are receiving these days. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Apart from this initial line, I would like to see Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure read carefully. It provides that: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. I repeat, they have the debate suspended. Those are clear words! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, from the moment a senator gets up to make a point of order, on the agenda or on the order of business, the debate on the main subject must be suspended at that moment. We are not talking about the amendment or the vote, but about the subject: this means whatever the House is doing at that time, whether it is a general debate, an explanation of vote or a vote on the amendments. Mr President, as I asked yesterday... Mr President, I see the precedents are coming to you. It's too bad we don't have them. The only people with the power have the record. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] And when the precedents are used and are available only to those at the top, remember, Mr President, that there is a serious violation for those who are at the bottom and are not able to know the precedents. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now I'm sure you'll quote me a precedent, but maybe there's a thousand more against it, of which we have no knowledge. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Make known all the precedents! The offices make public all the precedents, even for oppositions, so we can fully answer! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u8	Senator Crimes, you anticipated me and you're taking those for granted, but they're not precedents. I have a parliamentary report, which is public and there is nothing secret or secret. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] So I read from a parliamentary report: The organisation of the discussion in accordance with the constant practice of the Assembly Therefore, the organisation of the discussion, which is defined by the Conference of Leaders, is based on the constant practice of the Assembly, including every aspect of the general discussion, the examination of the articles, the amendments and the final vote. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] I'm reading: In particular: Illustration of any proposals for non-transitional examination of articles, proposals for deletion, vote on proposals themselves and agendas, including statements and announcements of votes, illustration, discussion, expressions of opinion and votes on amendments and articles, related declarations and announcements of votes, proposals for separate votes, incidental issues in general, including statements on the Minutes, questions for preliminary and suspensive opinions, references to the Rules of Procedure, for the order of business, and therefore this aspect is expressly indicated - - for the voting order, matters relating to items not included on the agenda, declarations, final voting announcements, final vote on the draft law, including explanations of vote. In accordance with practice, in the time reserved for the Groups, it is also understood that of the senators who, registered in the Groups themselves, intend to disassociate themselves from the positions expressed by the Group to which they belong, and so on. We are also talking about the time allocated to the Commission. I continue reading: Even in the context of contingent time, the time limits laid down in Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure and the other articles governing the duration of interventions shall continue to apply to all interventions. Having said that, however, I cannot continue a debate by completely removing the word from a Group, so be quiet (I was going to say: "state serene", but I prefer to say: "stay calm". [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You will then have the floor to intervene, of course, possibly with common sense and save the possibility of moving forward. Of course there will also be groups that have more time available and, as has often been the case at the Conference of Leaders, there are also disposals these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party Group gives 30 minutes of its time to the 5 Star Movement to allow that Group to continue the debate and explain its positions. Montevecchi (M5S). We don't want 30 minutes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I had announced that there is this availability and I am sure that if there will be further need, there will be this availability. [[Senator Airola's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u14	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I have been given a copy by the offices of this scheme entitled 'Contingentamento dei tempi' and referred to the various groups. I must say that I was surprised to note - I would like to smile - that at some point, from the 15th onwards, of this scheme which you also mentioned a moment ago, we write: "The time relative to those who are called "dissensient Democratic Party, dissenting Forza Italia" (...)" (Translated with Google Translate) I would like to know who has decided who is dissenting, who are the dissenters and who are, what they will have to disagree about in order to be called dissenting, whether dissenting can only be defined what will ultimately vote against the Group's indications or whether it can be defined as such only what will vote against an amendment with respect to the Group's indications or whether it will vote against three, four or ten times. It seems to me that it is not the right way to set up a scheme and therefore to report on this extremely limited time, I am very surprised. I'd also like to know who gave these directions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u15	Maybe I read in vain. I repeat: "In time it is understood that of the senators who, registered in the Groups, intend to disassociate themselves from the positions expressed". When there is a position of a Group and someone asks to speak in dissent, that time is calculated for the Group's dissenters. This does not mean that each Holding Company can also manage the time within its Group, as happened for another Group, in order to give up one part of it and not stifle dissent in such a way that it can express itself in all its democratic manifestation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u16	Mr President, of course I accept your suggestion, but I would just like to ask for a clarification. Since the Democratic Party has practically not made any explanations of vote and there have been some statements from senators such as Senator Corsini or myself, who were not openly dissenting because the Democratic Party had not said anything, I would like to know who is deciding on this, because the times are extremely limited and I do not believe that it is the staff of the office who allows to give these indications. I would ask for greater flexibility and the possibility of making statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u17	As everyone who intervenes knows the position of their Group, I would like those who intervene to be able to declare whether they are in disagreement or speak for the Group. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] Then, as often only one speaks for the Group, it is clearly the Parent Company that decides who should speak, whether it should speak in accordance with the Group. Anyone in a group, therefore, knows whether they speak in dissent or not. I would also like to say this in order to help the work of the Presidency and those who work to calculate the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u20	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that in parliamentary practice there is the institution of liberality in terms of time, but I must say to you, Mr President, that we could also, given the availability of time, grant the Five Star Movement some ten minutes, but I believe that it is a transfer that must conform to a minimum of rules and a minimum of uniformity. If we can see ourselves as Group Leaders in the interval already foreseen from 13.30 to 15 to define it, this transfer of time, however, can only be conditioned (I want to use this term exactly) to the good use of the time that is granted. That means that the groups that think they can take advantage of the time that we, Major Groups, give up, must use it within a certain economy of the works themselves, because if the time that we allow must be used for pure obstructive purposes, frankly, in my opinion, this cession has little reason to exist. So the proposal that I make is also addressed to the group leader Zanda and to the others: let's see five minutes at the end of the morning, during the suspension, let's make an analysis of the overall time available, let's check the availability of those who receive these extra minutes, having already used theirs (and we are not even halfway through), but let's make sure that the minutes that are granted are used within the labor economy, always remembering the initial proposals that some groups made, our first, that were to be able to concentrate on the real problems that are being discussed in this House. Otherwise if all the time allowed will be used in the next few hours to make a campaign again exclusively obstructive, tomorrow morning we will be in the same condition and at that point, frankly, the act of individual liberality would have little reason to be.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u21	Senator Romani, of course... (Senator Crosio addresses Senator Romani.) Excuse me, Senator Crosio, do not distract Senator Romani. Senator Romani, since there is a president who rules, this will seek with common sense and collaboration to ensure that these minutes are used not for obstructive purposes, but to express the needs of participation in the debate. You can reunite and clearly decide on your availability, but know that there will be attention on the part of the President - you must know - so that this time is actually used for the purposes for which it was granted. Please, Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u22	We'll see about that. I reply to Senator Casson: whenever dissenting speeches are not declared as such by the Senator who is speaking, the President of my Group points out to the offices that this intervention is in dissension. Therefore, the accounting of the Group's time and times for those who disagree, from our point of view, are perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u25	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, it is more appropriate for Senator Crimi to speak on the same subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. Please, Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u26	Mr President, I have mentioned a part of the Rules of Procedure to you. You are confirming today - and therefore this is not a concession or otherwise - that, for the umpteenth time, the Rules of Procedure are being relegated to the will of the majority and to a political decision taken at the Conference of the Leaders. I would warn you that when a regulation is bent on the will of a majority it is a spiral of death! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] It is a spiral that ends with disaster, because if the majority bend the rules from time to time according to their own political will, what happens is: today to me, tomorrow to you. And I would never want this to happen, because we would like the rules to be written rules - as the Constitution should be - not for a political force, but for all political forces, to guarantee everyone. This is what's happening. We are not interested in concessions, Mr President. I have told you that Rule 92 specifically states that the time limit for the point of order will be suspended. This part of the Rules of Procedure is being violated once again, by the will of the Conference of the Leaders, as you have said, and by the political will of a majority of which you have guaranteed (as you said yesterday) that you will achieve political will. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u27	Since this question had already been asked yesterday, just by its Parent Company, Senator Petrocelli, an answer had already been given. So there was the full awareness that you were using these times. So, perhaps I was wrong in granting too many speeches, which are qualified as references to the order of business, but then become real interventions. I take charge of this and, humbly, I say that I have made a mistake in making too much talk. However, it was not for me to consider the timing, but for the Group or the individual senator. So, from now on, when you ask to speak on the order of business, or you make a specific and concise speech on the order of business or I will take the floor. So we will avoid that a liberality granted to intervene those who want to intervene is used to say that the word is removed. I don't allow this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u30	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I would like to address President Romani, President Zanda and, of course, all Members of this House to make a request for a different sign. I would like to remind you that the points of order may possibly be used in a obstructive way, as President Romani has pointed out, but it is also true that the debate we have been having in this House has covered, for a very long time now, exactly the Rules of Procedure. And I would not want to see any further discussion of the Rules of Procedure in the course of the work. For example, if there were to be a question of legitimacy on certain secret votes somewhere, we would still have to discuss the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm proposing this. From my point of view it is superfluous, although of course thankful, that there is so much magnanimity, in relation to the times, by the Groups that still have many minutes at their disposal. A gesture of mutual goodwill could, on the other hand, be to recognize what is happening in the light of the Rules of Procedure, namely that the speeches on the Rules of Procedure are not counted for quota purposes, and, on the other hand, to develop quota time as planned. I also remember that last night, although raised at a very late evening, the question raised by Mr Azzollini posed a problem of this magnitude to untangle which most probably will take hours of discussion. Therefore, my appeal is to the common sense of the majority and of all because, by giving up the obstructive use of the instruments of the Rules of Procedure but, at the same time, by promoting a real debate, we would succeed in realizing a decent constitutional text. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u31	Senator Mauro, thank you for your speech, also because it goes in the very direction of what the Presidency will try to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u34	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you know perfectly well that, especially on Tuesday, when the case of the maxicangaro came up, the Council of the Rules of Procedure has apparently focused not only on the specific matter, but on the general rule. So it is clear to everyone that it is a little strange that, for example, the speeches my Group has made, and I personally, recalling, as you know, why I have read them, the analogy with Rules 85 and 85 (a) of the House's Rules of Procedure - I take this example but I could make others - are counted within the time allocated for the debate on constitutional reform. I say this because at the Conference of the Leaders, Mr President, when it was decided to harmonise the timetable, specific questions had been asked about the issue - which in this particular case was absolutely relevant, so much so that the junta for the Rules of Procedure had to be convened - and it seemed clear to me that the points of order could not be counted within the time allocated for the debate on constitutional reform. I say this, Mr President, because it is good that it remains in the proceedings, especially because the beginning of the examination of the amendments, in particular, has been deeply marked by issues absolutely related to the Rules of Procedure, so much so that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has then been convened, on various requests, and has pronounced itself on an application that was obviously not linked only to constitutional reforms, otherwise it would be quite strange that the Junta could always determine on specific cases. I would like to stress this, Mr President, because at the Conference of the Leaders we had specifically asked - and I would remind you that we had been reassured about this - that the debates on the Rules of Procedure were not counted. Having said that, Mr President, I take note of the generosity of the Leader of the Democratic Party and the Leader of Forza Italia, who evidently decided that everyone in this House can have their liberal concession of time, except SEL senators, as you will have noticed from the statements of my fellow Members Zanda and Romans. I don't know if I'm making any more jokes about this. I think this is very significant. Above all, it is significant that liberality is linked to what one says, since if the argument does not like liberality it is evidently not exercised. We could, Mr President - I am sorry to say - perhaps have the speeches written so that colleagues can judge whether or not it is possible to pronounce them. [[Comments by Senator Cervellini.]] Bravo, Massimo! Of course, we are very honored with such aversion and for the fact that only we want to prevent ourselves from speaking: we will take note of it, given the climate that has been created. As far as I am concerned, however, I have asked you for the floor, Mr President, on another matter as well. Last night we made the request to put it on today's agenda... [[Brusio.]] I don't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u35	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). If you like, I'll repeat again the concept to Roman Senators and Zanda. I've moved on to another subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They listened to you, Senator, please continue because your time is already up and I am giving you the floor. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Ah, why is this counted too? Sure, sure. I'm talking about another matter now, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Any incidental matter falls within the time available. Please, Senator De Petris, I'm giving you the floor. If you want to get to the point... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I'm trying to get there, ma'am, but I can't talk to this buzz. Mr President, yesterday we asked to be able to include the Gaza issue on the agenda of this House and we voted. We were told that the Foreign Affairs Committee had already been convened. In this regard, I would like to point out, even if President Casini is not present, that the Commission is convened only and exclusively to discuss the Libya affair. I am speaking this morning because of the fact that the President said things that were not true yesterday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The expression "Developing the international political situation" is so broad and generic that it can include any... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No, ma'am, we checked. I'm sorry. That's why I intervened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This was said by the President of the 3rd Casini Commission. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I read the agenda. However, the problem is very simple. The Joint Commissions are convened from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. for this very reason. If you really want to allow a serious discussion after the Minister's communications, I think there is a need to give more time to the Commissions. Almost all the members of the Commission and President Casini have called for a large number of participants to replace the debate in the House. About one o'clock: or we can talk about Libya as well as Gaza and have news about this... [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] or we can participate and then we need to extend the time allowed for the work of the Commissions and then we need to move the time of the start of the resumption of the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u37	This request seems to me to be acceptable, given the importance of the issues. So I certainly believe that the interruption of the House's work may be longer than expected, i.e. from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. from 1.30 p.m. to 4 p.m., allowing audiovisual recovery so that anyone can participate and also from outside follow the Commission's debate. With this prediction, I think we can proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u40	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I were to conform to Senator Razzi's philosophy, I probably shouldn't speak. However, I have listened to a number of speeches and then to a nail that I really cannot agree with. There is a degree of generosity in this House: passing time from one group to another, then perhaps Senator De Petris is right when she asks why one group and why not another? But this belongs to parliamentary practice, it doesn't upset me any more and so if that were the only reason I wouldn't speak. However, Mr President, I have also heard a conditional concession and I have heard you say 'there is a President, it will be the President who will determine the proper use of time'. I would like to be clear on one concept, because if this precedent passes, there is an orderly change with a very strong compression of every Member of Parliament. Time is granted or not allowed. The use that the Groups then want to make is a problem that all of them belong to the autonomy of the Parliamentary Group and individual parliamentarians. No one is allowed to intervene on the use of that time, because otherwise we should imagine the possibility of withdrawing that concession whenever unwelcome interventions were to be made. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] Therefore, in the meeting you are going to make, free the Groups to allow time for the other Groups; however, it is forbidden for anyone in this House, regardless of the role he plays, to be able to review the interventions that individual Groups or individual Members will take in the context of the time allowed to them. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u41	Senator Palma, thank you, for once again allowing me to point out that, if the intervention is on the order of business, we must talk about the order of business. That is the point of my speech. Nobody here wants to take someone's word off or interfere with the substance of the speeches. In any case, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u44	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am always speaking on the order of business and I hope that it is outside the quota, because my intervention is certainly not an instrumental one. In fact, I would like to give you just one piece of information. Yesterday Mr Crimi recalled that Minister Mogherini, about a couple of months ago, after a shift due to a commitment abroad of the Committee that I honor to preside, had given us the willingness to participate in a hearing on 31 July. This hearing in COPASIR was absolved two weeks ago for an international commitment - we have been told - by the Minister. Therefore, all of us, without polemics and uttering words, have accepted this justification, naturally understanding the importance of the moment. Now we note that the Minister is coming to the House. I find myself in the situation of being the President of COPASIR and also a member of the Foreign Commission. Yesterday I asked, in vain, to be able to discuss with the Minister in this House, as this is the right place to overcome even a problem - if we want to - of equal dignity between two bodies, namely the body I chair and the Foreign Commission. I am sure that if I were to take part in the work of the Foreign Commission today, I would be wrong to the importance and dignity of the Committee I chair, because I would agree to see my participation in the Foreign Commission as a minority of the Committee of which I am President. These situations cannot be implied. I remember, among other things, the willingness shown by many other government ministers in office. Mr Pinotti, who attended a hearing of our Committee, is here today, and he has provided us with important information both in terms of content and quantity, as regards the specific tasks that belong to the Control Committee on Services. I therefore believe, like other ministers, that the same consideration should exist on the part of all the members of the Government. What happened could only be overcome by a debate in this House. Unfortunately, as it has not been and it is with great regret that I say to everyone, and to you in the first place, that for this reason I will not be able to participate - I do so deliberately - in the meeting of the Foreign Commission, although I am a member of it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1952. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1952, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1953, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1954, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1955, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1956, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,1957, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1,1957 and amendments 1,1958 and 1,1959 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1960, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u48	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask whether you could add the first signatory to the number of the amendment. It gets a lot easier. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] I don't understand. Let the President answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u49	No. Please do me a favor, if you want to be quoted as a signatory, let me know and I will quote your amendment. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I was saying that for more clarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, if you're in front of the file, you'll see it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1961, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1962, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1,1963, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1964, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1965, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1966, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1967, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1968, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1969, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1970, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1971, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1972, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1973, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1974, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1975, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1976, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1.1977.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u52	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, we are writing the Constitution. Using the verb at the present time and using the verb "power" are two different things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u53	Then we proceed to separate votes. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1976, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1977, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1978, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1979, on which the secret vote has been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u56	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it happened to me some time ago that I had a discussion with some mothers. We were talking about the health of their children, who are small children. On that occasion I came to mind my first experience in the Senate, when I was a member of the Special Commission for the examination of the draft laws of conversion of decrees-laws and other urgent measures presented by the Government, chaired by Senator Bubbico, in which the case was discussed. Often we have been faced with ethical and delicate issues regarding the health of people with the defect of finding ourselves not contingency times, but extremely rapid operating modalities and, if we want, also hastily, induced by the emotions of the press, with results that from the scientific point of view, even ethical and moral, have occurred far from the balance that must inspire those who make the laws at the time when writing them. What is proposed in this amendment is to give a wide audience in the choice of the fundamental rules that concern life, the right to life, health, health protection, the end of life and everything in between. Let's think about what could happen with a single Chamber that intervenes only according to an economic pressure, for example when the Government, having to narrow the strings of the stock exchange, decides to make a law hastily to reduce the age up to which the Executive supports the right to health. All this, I believe, makes us understand how sensitively and weightily these issues need to be addressed and that, therefore, not only the Chamber of Deputies, but also the Senate of the Republic continue to have a say in these kinds of choices. I believe that there can only be support for this kind of attention, and I believe that the Government will agree with that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u59	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I appeal to your personal attention, to that of the rapporteurs and to the proposer for a profile which concerns the order of examination of matters. I recall that this amendment, as has been said not quite exactly, provides that in the matters referred to in Article 29 (family and marriage) and Article 32, paragraph 2 (mandatory health treatment) the relative competence to equal bicameral laws is conferred. The entire subject matter of the legislative procedure (i.e. the whole area in which we assign different competences to equal laws or to laws by ordinary procedure of the Chamber or by enhanced procedure) is dealt with in Article 10. It is no coincidence that this article amends Article 70 relating to the legislative process, because this examination is subsequent to that relating to the composition and election of the Senate. In Article 10 we discuss, that is, how to reform Article 70 after defining the composition and electiveity of the Senate. There is an obvious relationship between the degree of representativeness of the Senate and the matters assigned to the equal legislative process. My request (which, as I have said, is addressed to the rapporteurs, to the proposer and to you in particular) is therefore to consider whether this amendment should be discussed in its own place. Should we discuss here, now, a matter assigned to the equal legislative process without defining the Senate? I would remind you, Mr President, that this matter is subject to a secret vote when it is dealt with in substance. It is true that there is a precedent: I am referring to the transition from the State to the Regions of some of these matters, but also in that case indirectly, we could refer to a change of substance. Indeed, it is a little strange that the secret vote on the decision is to assign this or any other matter to an equal legislative procedure. In any case, I want to evaluate this consideration for a second compared to the main one.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u62	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I rise quickly at first instance to ask for my signature to be added to this amendment. I have already spoken to Mr Candiani about this and I hope he will confirm his consent. I would ask you to add this signature because on the two very important and sensitive issues mentioned in Amendment No 1.1979 we had tabled two autonomous amendments. So we share the request to intervene equally on the theme of the family (on everything that the relations between spouses mean) and on the matter of health treatment, the so-called biological will, and related issues. I say very quickly (because, if we are going to discuss or question the secret vote, we will have to go further) that, in my view, the Presidency has correctly admitted the secret vote on this issue, precisely because it refers in detail and specifically to Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. In this he finds comfort in the precedents of the Senate, with regard to the XIV legislature, in particular the amendment of Article 117 of the Constitution in the matter of devolution. In that case, the secret vote by the Pera Presidency was admitted in matters relating to compulsory health treatment, as referred to in the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution. Reference was made to admission to the secret vote where the texts were referring, precisely, to this article of the Constitution, unlike the proposals that should relate exclusively to health programming or the health fund. There is also a specific reference to ordinary law as the precedence of this Senate. We refer to the Schifani Presidency, which had admitted several requests for secret voting on these subjects, which concerned - I quote some of them - dissent on medical acts, rejection of health care and treatment, withdrawal of consent to health treatments, therapeutic behavior, hydration and nutrition. I would just like to mention these issues, to point out how far we are within the rules and case studies and to ask for Amendment No 1, 1979 to be voted in accordance with the procedures already accepted by the Presidency, by secret ballot, given the personality and sensitivity of the issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, do you accept the signing of amendment 1.1979 by Senator Casson? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u65	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am addressing the content of Senator Candiani's Amendment No 1.1979 in two respects and with two different considerations. One refers to the intervention with which Senator Candiani presented his amendment. Of course, there is no one in this House who cannot recognize the very high civil and consequently political value of the content of the provisions of Articles 29 and 32 of our Constitution. There is no doubt that these are fundamental articles that regulate essential parts of the life of our country and of each of us. But the issue we are talking about today is something else that needs to be looked at. We are discussing and working on an important reform of the Constitution, which has as its objective (Senator Candiani and the Group of which this is part should know him well and appreciate him) to transform the Senate into a Chamber of Self-Government. We're not turning the Senate into a House that has political specializations. With a Chamber of Independents these issues have nothing to do with it, we could find many more, we could find many other issues that the Constitution provides and that, with equal arguments of equal strength, we could ask for them to be included in the competences of the new Senate. But we would do a work of great constitutional disorder if we had access to this thesis. We must, vice versa, keep the vision of the new Senate compact, through constitutionally homogeneous legislation, because only in this way will we be able to build what we have imagined and on which we are working, namely a Political Chamber that gives confidence to the Government and that has integrated all the task, power and faculty of legislation and a Chamber that has instead a particular and defined specialisation. So I have this reservation about the content: a definitive reservation about the will and position of the Democratic Party Group in the Senate. Another question, Mr President, is your decision to allow the amendment under consideration to the secret ballot. You see, Mr President, I must ask you to review your position for specific reasons and for more general reasons. For specific reasons, because I think that secret voting is a matter of great delicacy and as such must be treated: it must be treated very carefully, being careful to use it well. I believe in the secret vote, but I think it should be used for what the Constitution provides and for which our legislation admits it. The secret vote is granted in the matters that Senator Casson has just mentioned, when asked about positive rules, which directly affect those rights. We cannot think that it can be granted, on those same subjects, when it comes to rules that affect the legislative process, which serve to attribute and divide the competences between the House and the Senate: these are completely different things. Mr President, I take advantage of the fact that we are talking about this issue in order to make another consideration, always on the secret vote, but of a more general nature. In the history of the Republic and in the history of Parliament's work on the Constitution, we have had other examples, which I do not want to recall, of Parliament's abuse of constitutional institutions of great delicacy and importance, which we then had to bend and change and which we are practically going - even correctly and positively - almost to the abolition, because of the abuse that has been done. I want the secret vote to remain intact in our Constitution, Mr President, but I want to vote with the secret vote on the rights of linguistic autonomy, I do not want to vote with the secret vote on the number of Members, because for this second category of votes, our Constitution does not provide for it. I also say this to the oppositions, rather I say this to the oppositions even before the majority, because these are rules that the Constitution has provided for their protection, when it comes to the vote of conscience: these rules have not been included in the Constitution to try somehow for political shortcuts. They are not rules that protect the free shooter political, not moral: this is the substance of the matter and this reasoning must guide us in granting a secret vote or denouncing such a concession. If we abuse it, Mr President, Parliament, the country and democracy will suffer the consequences over time. That is why I ask that decisions be taken very rigorously and with great care, because I fear the process that we can start, when we have to abuse them for political reasons and not for ethical reasons, as the Constitution provides. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u66	Since the decision to admit to the secret vote is mine, I would like to point out the distinction between the Rules of the House and the Rules of the Senate. The term: "engraving" on rights - as has been pointed out - is used by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, while our Rules of Procedure contain the expression: "they adhere to the civil and ethical-social relations referred to in articles (...)". (Senator Bruno raises his hand repeatedly.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked to speak to Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Be patient, ma'am. I've had my hand up for three hours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruno, I was responding to the surgery. You haven't even signed up yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u67	You should have someone next to you to tell you who raises your hand. I have already told you this to the Rules of Procedure Board and I repeat it to you here in this House: you cannot continue to chair in this way. You look one way and you absolutely don't see what your collaborators tell you. Be patient. TONINI (PD). But there's an assembly in front of it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, he's right. Senator Quagliariello, please. Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Senator Bruno, not this time: I went to the presidency to ask to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruno, please don't talk about orders of precedence. I'll give you the floor right after Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking only on one point. I am not going to talk about the secret vote or even about the substance. Yesterday we heard, with regard to an important amendment, Senator Azzollini's amendment, a speech appreciated by the whole of the House, made by the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, who not only entered into the substance, but rightly argued why this matter should be dealt with at the time when we were going to deal with Article 81. We are doing a constitutional reform and I believe that, apart from the differences between the majority and the opposition, we all have an interest that ultimately results in a product that has its own consistency. Then, then, on this result, we can have different judgments. What worries me about the questioning of this article and also about the issue that is opening up on the secret vote, (which we will do at the time), is that this matter concerns the legislative procedure, Article 70 and therefore Article 10 of our draft law. We run the risk of dealing with that article after having unpacked a series of topics according to personal tastes; and therefore, when we have to deal with the issue of which subjects should be bicameral, of which areas should be provided for an enhanced procedure or not, in fact, we will close the fence and the oxen will already be out of the stable. That is why, Mr President, I ask you, just as we wisely put an amendment aside yesterday and placed it in its place, to do the same today with regard to this matter, regardless of what the judgements are on both the secret vote and the substance and content of the amendment. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u71	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must say that my speech is in line with what Senator Quagliariello said. In fact, it is the same situation that was created last night with regard to Article 81. We still have to deal with - Article 10 deals with this - what matters may be equal, what the House will have to deal with and what the Senate will have to deal with. I therefore do not repeat the remarks made by the previous speaker. On the other hand, as regards the request made by President Zanda, it is clear if you were to believe that your decision should not be reviewed, when you consider it appropriate you may have this article voted, even by secret vote. However, I should like to point out to you that the arguments put forward by President Zanda see who is talking to you very much about those same considerations. In fact, we are talking about competences, so we are not on the subject of either Article 32, or Article 29. So, if you were to believe that your decision on Amendment No 1.1979 could be revised, my request is as follows. As a matter of priority, let us put this amendment aside or put it in Article 10. Otherwise, we can go ahead with the work and use the suspension period to convene - if you consider it appropriate - the junta of the Rules of Procedure to review, if necessary, its decision on the admissibility of the secret vote because, without prejudice to its determination (we have already said so in the Junta: you are the dominus of this matter and you also assume responsibility for the decision), where there is a doubt, the junta of the Rules of Procedure could open a debate and possibly, together with you, decide what to do. [[Applause from Senator Chiavaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u74	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would have expected everything in this debate, but not that people's health would be used for technical obstruction. We are talking about the LEA and the health of the citizens: already it is a matter that Title V has delegated to the Regions with 21 health systems, one different from the other, already we should, with Article 10, bring back the supremacy of the State in this important matter, but then we fight it between Chamber, Senate and Commissions and we never manage to review the LEAs that have been blocked for 12-13 years. We continue to bureaucratise, while health care needs quick and immediate answers. There are - we have debated it and someone has raised it - drugs that treat hepatitis C and heal it, but we have not yet managed to put them in the prontuary, because we have iter farraginosis, whereas in other states, France, Great Britain, Spain or the United States are already available to the citizens. Colleagues, family and health are not exploited and are not obstructed. On this subject, on the health issues of our citizens, we need speed, and that is why - and I shall say this later, when we examine Article 10 - we need to bring health competence back to the head of one House and we must take it away even from the regions, because we cannot have 21 different health systems with a bureaucracy that blocks the solutions that concern the health of citizens: on the health of citizens and on the family we do not play and do not joke. So I will vote strongly against this proposal and invite everyone to do the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u77	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to point out how appropriate the proposal made by Senator Quagliariello is. Above all, I would like to point out that it highlights the fact that the Candiani amendment does not concern the issue of the protection of rights, but rather the organisation of Parliament, a subject for which, even historically (and perhaps then we will return), the Rules of Procedure wanted to maintain the clear vote. This is because the two things are closely connected: the protection of rights, which here would like to be attributed to an equal competence between the House and the Senate, is a function and an exquisitely political competence. Surreptitiously, this amendment, legitimately but with the same philosophy as the Azzollini amendment voted yesterday, wants to deny what the Senate has repeatedly stated with the votes of yesterday: that the Senate does not become a political Chamber or a Senate of guarantees, but a Senate of the autonomous, body of connection with the competences of the Regions. The precedent that is invoked (we have also talked about it in the Giunta per il Regolamento) in my opinion is not relevant, because an account is to transfer the competence from the State to the Regions and, therefore, to remove the protection of a unitary state legislation that pertains to the national political direction of the protection and the discipline of the rights (because this could relate to an infinite range or, in any case, all those indicated by Article 103 of the Regulation) and, with the transfer to the regional competence, to fragment the legislation that protects the rights; other account is to refer to the legislative procedure with which the function of regulation of the rights by the State is exercised. In my view, the precedent is therefore absolutely not relevant, even as far as the secret vote is concerned. So in order to avoid interfering with this vote on a matter related to that of the organization of the Senate and the House and their functions in the legislative process, while adhering to the proposal of Senator Quagliariello, I declare that I am opposed because this amendment is consistent with another philosophy that the majority of the Senate has repeatedly rejected yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u80	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we are obviously witnessing an attempt to bring the Presidency back, with regard to what has been agreed in the outcome of the Junta for the Rules of Procedure, its steps, the assessments that have already been made and the determination already made by the Presidency on the criteria for the eligibility of requests for secret voting. It is appropriate to remind the House and colleagues who did not participate in that Committee on the Rules of Procedure that the determination of the Presidency (by virtue of which the secret vote is admissible for all those amendments relating to the conferring of legislative powers on a branch of Parliament) was the result of a thoughtful and in-depth discussion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The ratio, which we believe to be acceptable, underlying this decision is obviously the following. If the fourth paragraph of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure indicates the deliberations which pertain to Articles 13 et seq. of the Constitutional Charter as deliberations which may be subject to a secret vote, there is no one who sees whether or not to attribute a legislative power to a branch of Parliament, on being able to legislate in relation to those civil relations, brings with it the need for the ratio underlying the fourth paragraph of Rule 113 to be respected. Mr President, since you have already decided on the point and have determined the conditions under which we are voting, we believe that no provision or amendment of the assessments made so far would be inadmissible. This is the position of the 5 Star Movement on the spot.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u83	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not want to go into the matter. I have listened to the previous speeches and in particular, an alternative posed by Senator Bruno: the provision of this amendment, also shared by other senators, that is, the convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure. With regard to this second possibility, I would like to represent you, Mr President, that I am not a substitute for the Rules of Procedure Committee. I would ask you, however, not to use the time to suspend the work of this House because I cannot participate in the Council of the Rules of Procedure because I am committed to the Committee on Justice in voting on the decree-law relating to prisons. I therefore ask you, in the event that you do not decide for the provision and decide for the convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, to use a time other than that indicated to you by Senator Bruno. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If there are no other speeches on such a delicate subject...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u86	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I apologise but, although I may seem a little savant compared to the previous speakers, I would like to say here a word of truth, otherwise this becomes a sanhedrin in which everyone tells his own truth to hide it from others. You have decided on this amendment, because it is a matter that affects citizens' rights, to allow the secret vote, and I believe very well. If anyone is afraid of this mode of voting, fearing ambush, and shatters a whole series of theories to remove this kind of trial and determination from the House, he does so by drawing on a Pharisaic way that hides the real question: one is afraid of the secret vote. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to maintain your determinations, which are in complete assonance with what the Rules of Procedure lay down, and I ask you not to delay any further, because it gives me the feeling of the one who clings to this House in order to be able to receive some support with respect to a determination that she has already taken on. Since, as little as it may seem, I fully share your determinations, which are in line - I repeat - with the spirit and letter of the Rules of Procedure, beyond what the Leguleans have just said here, please do not go back to your determinations, because, you see, President, the truth is a bit like a knife that does not have the handle: wherever we take it hurts us. So, please, and I urge you to move forward with the secret vote on Amendment No 1.1979, tabled by Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u87	I'd like to point out that it's not a tergiverse, but it's just... [[Comments of Senator D'Anna]] . I am giving the floor to all those who request it to have a contribution from everyone on a very important subject that deserves a discussion, so much so that I also give it to Senator Bruno, who I imagine wants to answer for personal fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u88	Mr President, this is not a personal matter. To those who say that the secret vote is accepted by someone and is not accepted by someone else for who knows what device, Mr D'Anna, I want to say that we have a Rules of Procedure and we have the speech of the President, whom I believe we must all respect. The President, in his speech, had to say that all the matters referred to in Article 10 are not subject to secret voting, if I recall correctly, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Well, if that is the case, we are asking you for a different position, not for the pleasure of asking him, but because, as we discussed yesterday, that is where this subject should be included. So it is not a whim or fear of the secret vote, Mr D'Anna, but respect for the speech, as the President has said. We can't say once it's okay and the other, if we don't want to, it's okay. I believe that consistency must be such that, once the problem has been solved, if the amendment can be placed in Article 10, as a consequence, given what you have said, there cannot be a secret vote. [[Applause from Senators Bianconi and Chiavaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u91	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I am only suggesting that you do not reach the decision to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, for a very simple reason which we have already discussed a great deal in this House. This is a decision that you have already taken, and if you decide to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, with the majority and minority relations that exist, you would, however, restrict the rights of the minority. Therefore, in this situation, it is up to you and only you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u92	Thank you for recognizing me from time to time some of these faculties. I would like to make one point. The Presidency is asked to do something that is the responsibility of the proposer, who is the dominus of the amendment. Any assessment of what Senators Quagliariello, Bruno and Sacconi have represented on the hypothesis of renumbering, of moving this amendment into another article is the responsibility of Senator Candiani, to whom we ask light on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr President. What I certainly agree with is the signing of the amendment by Senator Casson. As far as the other elements are concerned, I have not found any fundamental reason to change the positions and, above all, the place in the article which, on the contrary - I stress - brings an extremely important issue to our debate, Mr President. Perhaps - let me say this to Senator Monti - even more important than what he judged a subject last night not to be closed hastily. In this case (I see next to him the other senator for life), woe to think that he hastily closes with a single Chamber that decides on issues that concern ethics, rather than the health or care of citizens! Let us not make this mistake and bring this amendment to a successful conclusion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u94	The secret vote has already been convened and a session of the Committee for the Rules of Procedure has taken place and the decision has matured after all opinions have been expressed in the Board for the Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that there is no reason to return to decisions. However, it is necessary, as required by the Rules of Procedure, for the request to be made by at least twenty senators. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u97	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the request has been made by Senator Bruno, and it seems to me that others (including Senator Quagliariello) should put aside the amendment. I did not understand an answer to that proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u98	The provision is not in availability, if there is no agreement of the proposer. In any case, it is the speakers and the Government that should express themselves, always in the presence of the availability of the proposer. I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment, partly because originally an opinion had been expressed contrary to Senator Finocchiaro and a favourable opinion from Senator Calderoli. I should like to know whether they are confirmed for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u99	Mr President, I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u100	Mr President, I confirm my favourable opinion. If you will allow me, I would take this opportunity to explain why I believe that the opinion should be favourable. I believe that Article 55, where we are talking about the legislative function, is the seat of Article 55, as is already stated in the text. I recall the previous paragraph of Article 32, second paragraph. It was a request of the then DS - I do not know if they had already become PD - inherent precisely in the same subject, namely the obligatory health treatments in the 2004 reform. On the merits, I have always been an opponent of the perfect bicameralism. I believe that this is correct in relation to constitutional matters, but it is equally correct and necessary when it comes to such a sensitive matter. In fact, I do not want to think that there can be a majority of government that has the helm, the leadership of the House and can intervene with respect to the fact - for example - that, above a certain age, one should no longer be assisted by the Health Service, that is, if the terminal patient has to be assisted. I believe that the so-called shuttle, in this case, is not only useful, but also mandatory for this assessment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I do not think this is an excessive use of the secret vote, Senator Zanda. The President granted two secret votes in relation to the basic principles. So it seems to me that we are in an absolutely legitimate field. I therefore confirm my favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u101	I ask Senator Finocchiaro if he wants to justify his opinion against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u102	Mr President, I do not think it is the substance of the amendment. When we discuss the competence of the Chamber and the Senate on certain subjects, we will have the opportunity to choose and decide which subjects must belong to a perfect bicameralism, which obviously remains in the reform for the most important matters, and which instead must be entrusted to the other systems, such as the simple call and the reinforced call. We talked about this yesterday. I find that the possible approval of this amendment would create an insane imbalance in the bill: where we describe the functions of Chamber and Senate, we would in fact introduce a part - as Senator Quagliarello said very well, anticipating us from Article 70 - which describes the equal legislative procedure for two really important issues, such as those of Articles 29 and 32 of the Constitution. My opinion is therefore completely unassessing on the content of the amendment, but it concerns the systematic correctness of the text. And if this assessment normally assists us, or should - alas - always assist us when we treat ordinary law, the more it should assist us when we think about constitutional matter, and even the rewriting of the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u105	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Colleagues, have we complained that the rapporteurs do not intervene and then, when they intervene, do you complain? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bruno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u106	Senator Calderoli, don't go into the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u107	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I have heard so many of them that I can answer them once in a while. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't care how many I've heard! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. President, may I apologise on behalf of all... President. Thank you, but I don't need it. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Each time I brought with me the minutes in which you unanimously gave us the proxy. The proxy is there and has it when things go well. But when... President. Senator Calderoli, we don't trigger any more provocations. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. President, someone in the past said that thinking wrong is a sin, but almost always you get caught. When someone for aesthetic and functional reasons claims that we should move this amendment from those relating to Rule 70, I would like to remind you that the President granted secret voting on this matter only to Articles 1 and 18. Therefore, moving it to Article 70 would only prevent the Senate from being able to express its vote freely. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u108	The theme is about functions. As it affected the functions, the difference I specified is between functions, mode and process. It's just a little bit more precision. I therefore call on the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u109	Mr President, the Government's opinion, of course, does not concern the choices of the President or the Assembly, but only what is required by the amendment in the vote, on which we confirm the contrary opinion of the Government. [[Comments. Senator Marton nods to ask for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u110	The secret vote has been requested and it is supported.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u113	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, in view of the time, to withdraw all the cards of the senators who are not present in their place. I'm asking you for it, please and be fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u114	Senator, you have prevented my precaution, which is precisely to guarantee the secret vote as much as possible. I would therefore ask the Assistants and Secretary Senators to check whether there are any places where cards are placed without corresponding to them to the senator's presence. (Senator Manconi's card is indicated, which is not in the Chamber.) Please pick up the card for those who aren't here. Cardinals. He's out here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If he's out here, we'll let him in and get his card back. [[Senator Manconi returns to the Chamber and inserts the card into the voting system. Protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] There are requirements that we must consider, but we have done well. Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.1979, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Fattori returns to the Chamber and inserts the card into the voting system. Comments from the PD Group.]] We've been waiting for Senator Manconi and we're also waiting for Senator Fattori. I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Favorables 154 Contrari 147 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-SEL, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Senators Di Maggio and De Pin. Congratulations very much.]] I'm suspending the session for ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 11.24 a.m.) The session is resumed. I ask the senators to take their seats and return to the Chamber. [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, the session is resumed, if you hadn't noticed. Please take your seats; we are about to resume with the votes. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1980, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to Amendment No 1.1981, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1982, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1983, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1984, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1, 1985 tabled by the rapporteurs and on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, which is essentially a correction. In fact, it provides that in paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. In the second sentence of the fourth subparagraph, the words "exercised" shall be replaced by the following "exercised" functions: I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1, 1985 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1986, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1987, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.1988, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment No 1.1989, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u117	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking in a personal capacity. I belong to the Forza Italia Group and voted against in the secret vote. It was a secret vote and it doesn't matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't declare it. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr. President. After the vote, the Senator Vicari shouted: "Congratulations to Forza Italia!" Since you, Mr President, are the guarantor of our seriousness, I think that each of us has the title for some comment on the other groups: we are in democracy and all this is acceptable. I would ask you, however, whether it is acceptable for a representative of the Government to make a dignified appreciation of a group. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC]] It's just a question, the one I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1991 (text 2), of which the rapporteurs have proposed a new wording, which I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u119	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). You have to answer!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u120	Mr President, we propose to the first signatory, Senator Russo, and to the other signatories, the following new wording of the amendment: In paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. The third sentence of the fourth subparagraph of Article 55 is replaced by the following: It participates in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation and assesses its impact. The new amendment, 1.1991 (text 3), would end at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u121	The new wording therefore provides for the deletion of the words from: "and maintains the link with the committees" until the end of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u124	Although his time is limited, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u125	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I shall be stealing a few minutes for a matter of consistency. I am a signatory to this amendment, which is similar in its content to Amendment No 1.1915, which was first signed by other Members and which was rejected. Therefore, on a matter of consistency, I withdraw my signature to Amendment No 1, 1991 and I will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u126	The Presidency takes note of this. I ask Senator Russo if he accepts the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u127	Mr President, allow me, by accepting the rewording, also to point out the satisfaction of an amendment which accepts, I recognise, the work in the Commission and the reports of all the Groups, and which is also testified by the subscription that comes from all over the House. As far as the substance is concerned, it includes important competences which are the result of joint and shared work and I would like to thank the House for that. [[Applause from Senators Manconi and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u130	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I would just like to put a question to the proposer of the amendment, so that we can have full confidence in the expression of the vote. The amendment states: "Participate in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of European Union legislation, evaluates its impact, maintains the link with the specialised committees of the European Parliament." With reference also to what was discussed yesterday in the evening, I would like to ask the rapporteur what this means with regard to budgetary powers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u133	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to make a small correction to the inexactness of the reformulation, which we have also mentioned the previous time. The reworded text reads: "Participate in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of European Union legislation, evaluates its impact, maintains the link with the specialised committees of the European Parliament." After the words "normative acts" the following should be added: "policies" which were missing in the previous text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is clear what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u136	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, as Senator Mussini has already said, Amendment No 1, 1991 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Russo, to whom I too have added my signature finding it of common sense, has been reworded and accepted, while Amendment No 1,1915, which contains the same indications, is being amended. I would like to ask why, if Amendment No 1.1915 is rejected, the other is retained and, without an explanation, reworded. This is not consistent. I therefore withdraw my signature from Amendment No 1,1991 (text 3) precisely because Amendment No 1,1915 was not accepted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Rather than not having been accepted, it was decided against it: whether or not it was the House that decided to accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u139	FINDING, rapporteur. In fact, Amendment 1.1915, in the area of competences relating to the European Union, reproduces in the same way the text which has been approved by the Commission. The new part that you included is according to the provisions of your Rules of Procedure, a reference that is useless to write in the Constitution, because it is clear that the action of each House is regulated by the Regulations, which, as you know, are sources of a constitutional nature. In any case, there was no change in this part of the text approved by the Commission, contrary to amendment 1,1991, at the first signature of Senator Russo, which also introduces the participation and evaluation of European Union policies. That is why there was an opinion in favour of Amendment No 1, 1991 and an opinion contrary to Amendment No 1,1915. [[Comments of Senator Mussini]] That's it, Senator Mussini, I'm sorry. I read the text approved by the Commission: "Participate in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of European Union legislation." In your amendment it is written: "Direct to the training and implementation of EU legislation. The amendments are therefore identical, it is the reference to the Rules of Procedure which, in our opinion, was, as the lawyers say, ultra-rheo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u142	TREMONTI (GAL). Mr President, I believe that for some centuries now the legal rules must have and cannot but have an effective and non-wanderful, propagandistic character, and general statements, such as: The Empress will take care of the peoples of Carinthia. The rule we are debating is clearly intentional, it is not at all disposition and I believe it puts us in an almost ridiculous situation. Our Constitution provides that the Italian law is subject to the constraints deriving from the European Union, where constraints do not mean only those referred to in the first paragraph of Article 117 of Title V (and therefore not only the great principles and not only the Treaties), but also the administrative acts of the Union are a source of constraints. Ours is the only Constitution that provides for submission of our system to constraints arising from administrative acts, these reinforced by the Constitution. So that the Senate, whatever it is, participates in the formation of the European Union's legislative acts is simply ridiculous, because it is not in the legislative mechanics, in the development of political forces and it is not even in the text of our Constitution. The Senate, if it is competent in this matter, will do so for the implementation of those constraints, often not lucky for our country, but that it is the source of European legislation itself is simply absurd.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u145	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Russo, in agreement with the spirit of amendment 1.1191 (text 2), also in its rewording, to be able to add my signature. I believe that the participation proposed in this amendment is extremely positive, also in order to avoid the infringement procedures that affect our state for membership of Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept, Senator Russo? Mr Russo (PD). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u148	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to contradict Mr Tremonti, but in European mechanics, certainly more baroque than Gothic (so it is more like us than in Northern Europe in some ways), there is something called the "ascending phase" which certainly has its limits in European law and yet it is an important thing, which is involved (I admit, at present, more in the form of intentions than in the form of implementation) the national parliaments. In this rule it is a question of whether involvement in the ascending phase concerns only the Chamber or should also concern the Senate and therefore the system of autonomy that the Senate represents. And the choice is that this ascending phase must see the protagonism of both the House and the Senate in equal matters, without prejudice of course to all the problems of system, which however concern Italy as regards Germany net of the relationships of force. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u151	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Russo to be able to add his signature to his amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Russo, do you accept? Mr Russo (PD). I accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u154	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to return a moment to Amendment No 1.1915, which was rejected earlier and which is very similar to this amendment, but to which the rapporteurs have not had the courage to suggest a rewording. They have had an eye on the fellow Member of the same party, Senator Russo, who has instead been proposed a rewording of the amendment to bring it closer to everyone's wishes. I believe that this should be stigmatised, because Mr Mussini and Mrs Bencini have made it clear that the text was very similar and if there was an ultroneal part, it could have been removed by rewording to allow a favourable opinion to be expressed. Since we are talking about the Constitution and have seen the clashes that have taken place (we have also seen it very recently with the secret vote), I think we need more attention to the correct and acceptable proposals of the opposition, from those who hold the House and from those who, like the rapporteurs, can express an authoritative opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u155	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1991 (text 3), tabled by Senator Russo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes amendments 1,1992 to 1,2002.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u158	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, why is Amendment 1,2002 also precluded, which concerns the issue of the supremacy clause? It is a completely different issue from that of the previous amendments, also because it is clear to everyone that, if the Senate you propose is the representation no longer of the nation but also of the interests of the Regions, it is absolutely essential that this type of Senate has a substantive control over the regional laws that the Government considers contrary to the national interests and, therefore, that in some way imposes the clause of supremacy. This is a sensitive issue and I call on the rapporteurs to reflect on this issue. Unless you want to give this expertise and power either.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u159	Senator De Petris, the Presidency agrees with you and, as is usually said, admits the charge and asks for clemency. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.2002. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1, 2003 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1, 2004 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, repeatedly points out to the Presidency that he wants to speak.) (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u162	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I wanted to advise you not to vote on this amendment, because its rejection has a preclusive effect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u163	On the other hand, the Presidency does not consider it to have any preclusive effects, since the vote on Senator Azzollini's amendment 1.1926 has been postponed to a later stage of the debate. I also believe that President Azzollini agrees that this possible preclusive effect cannot be determined at all. In any case, even if the Presidency continues to believe that the rejection of amendment 1/2004 has no preclusive effect, if the rapporteurs believe that these effects are there, we certainly cancel the previous vote and ask the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, to speak on Amendment 1/2004. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Of course, Senator Bonfrisco, who tabled the amendment in question, remains open to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u164	Mr President, I urge Senator Bonfrisco to follow the same path as Senator Azzollini and to reformulate it, but not to put it to the vote at this stage of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u165	As the shift of that amendment would have led to the revision of all those dealing with the same subject during the coordination phase, if Senator Bonfrisco agrees, we can use the same procedure as the amendment tabled by Senator Azzollini. I would ask both of you to accept this request. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I welcome you, of course, President. I would have asked you myself to follow the same procedure and thank you. Mr Azzollini (NCD). President, that's all I have to say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 1, 2004 is transformed into an amendment, which will be postponed along with that of Senator Azzollini, with a new numbering. Amendment 1/2005 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2006, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2007, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2008, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2009, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2010, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2011, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2012, tabled by Senator Ferrara Mario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,2013, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "six hundred and thirty" in question. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,2013 and amendments 1,2014 to 1,2053 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2054, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,2055, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the following words are taken: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.2055 and amendments 1.2056 to 1.2060 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2061, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, essentially identical to Amendments 1,2062, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 1,2063, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,2064, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2065 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u168	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that Amendment 1.2065 be taken into account and that it be voted on. [[The Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group indicate that they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u169	I call on Senator Milo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,2065, which was withdrawn by the proposers and subsequently taken over by Senator Crimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u172	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Very kind, ma'am. I just wanted to sign amendment 1.2065 together with my colleagues Mussini and Maurizio Romani. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. Amendment 1,5000 has been withdrawn. We move on to agendas G1.28 and G1.1897. [[Senator Crimi once again points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u173	Mr President, I wanted to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,2065, but I will do so on another. At this point choose which one! This is what we're doing! When you tell me, I speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u174	When he asks, he'll have the floor. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] It seems to me that you have also had the opportunity to make an amendment that has been withdrawn by others. Thank you, President! The chance! Thank you! MORONESE (M5S). It's not a concession! AIROLA (M5S). Your Majesty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agendas of G1.28 and G1.1897.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u175	Mr President, I am opposed to the G1.28 agenda and to the G1.1897 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u176	The opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u177	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.28, tabled by Senator De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 in the amended text. CRIMI (M5S). But the extras? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The additional amendments will be voted on later. Senator Crimes, it disappoints me. These amendments are intended to include additional articles after Article 1, so we cannot vote on them first. CRIMI (M5S). You see it takes a break! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, you need a break, too. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Turano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.3 tabled by Senator Cucchetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u180	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we have tabled Amendment 1.0.6 not so much with the obstructionist understanding, because - as you can see - our Group...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u181	Senator Buemi, excuse me for interrupting, but I have to explain to the House why you are intervening on an amendment following what we were about to vote on. Amendment 1.0.4 to be voted on in the first part would, if rejected, lead to the foreclosure of Senator Buemi's amendment 1.0.6. I say this in order to ensure that everyone follows his speech carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u182	Thank you, President. It was my limit not to explain it. As I was saying, there is no obstructive understanding, of course. We still have a great deal of time to intervene. I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the objectives of this reform. Amendment 1.0.6 does not address the issue of the eligibility of first and second degree of the two Chambers - an issue that has already been addressed - but would like to clarify an element of misunderstanding that continues to remain: if the reform of our bicameral system is dictated by an economic need, framed in the policies of savings and public spending that, in our country, is facing. This seemed, in fact, to me the starting point of a few months ago. Basically, the perfect bicameral system had costs and produced inefficiency. So, on the basis of the level of costs, our amendment proposes that the number of Members and senators should be reduced to 400 and 200 respectively, obviously addressing the issue of savings in serious terms. In fact, it does not escape anyone who, by reducing the senators by 100 units and by 200 units, the savings that would be achieved would certainly be more significant than what is achieved by keeping the number of Members identical to the current one and reducing instead of 200 units the senators. There would be a big difference in the level of savings because, in the case of Senate reduced to 100 members and represented by regional councils, it would certainly be significant but not corresponding to what would be achieved if the savings on the side of the House were added. Obviously this reduction would solve some other problems that we face in the subsequent amendments, namely the balance of numbers between the House and the Senate in the election of constitutional bodies, such as the Presidency of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court. This amendment is intended to propose this reflection to the House. Of course it is a contribution that we make; we know that our consistency certainly does not affect the relationship of forces of this House, but we would like once in a while the elements of merit to exceed those of quantity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u185	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify. Does Amendment 1.0.4 preclude amendment 1.0.6?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u186	Yes, because for amendment 1.0.4 the vote on the first part is scheduled, until the words: "is" of "is."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u187	I shall then withdraw amendment 1.0.4 to allow Senator Buemi's amendment 1.0.6 to be put to the vote, which seems to me to be addressing this issue by highlighting a principle, that of balancing, by clearly confirming that the relationship between the number of Members and that of senators is twice that, and is therefore intended to ensure that balance. This would be a constitutional principle which could also avoid future other deformities, once and for all sanctioning the principle of proportionality between the two chambers in order to ensure, in the exercise of the vote on the guarantee bodies, a balance between the two branches of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u188	Senator Crimes, I would like to point out to you that by withdrawing amendment 1.0.4 it does not achieve the desired effect; in the sense that it should also request the withdrawal of amendment 1.0.5. Also, I'd like to know if the other co-signators accept your withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u189	Mr President, I was waiting for you to come to the vote on Amendment 1.0.5 to say that I would withdraw it. It's a matter of timing. Let us withdraw both amendments and turn them into agendas which I shall have to send to the Presidency in a very short time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u190	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u193	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise because, having been made the decision, which is absolutely inconsistent, to consider the amendments that offer a different proposal in terms of the number of members of the Assemblies and therefore of the two Chambers, I would like to point out that the absolute inconsistency of this concept is being overcome. In fact, it is quite clear that compared to a proposal that presents a balance of the two rooms, it is not irrelevant and absolutely indifferent to be able to offer a range of hypotheses that hold harmoniously and consistently together. Therefore, what is different is to propose together 500 members for the House and 250 for the Senate or different proportions or even numbers. Since, on the basis of the principle that has passed in this debate and which we do not agree with, then there are amendments to this effect tabled by us which are probably not going to be put to the vote, we support amendment 1.0.6 on which we will vote in favour. However, let us once again point to a criterion of inconsistency which is guiding us in the work, so that we are dealing with obstructionism as a necessity which would avoid absolutely inconsistent decisions, because we are all, so to speak, forced to converge on ways that do not correspond to the proposal that we want to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u194	I must therefore assume that all the other signatories of amendments 1.0.4 and 1.0.5 to Senator Crimi's first signature obviously agree with the withdrawal. Amendments 1.0.4 and 1.0.5 are therefore withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.6 tabled by Senators Buemi and Longo, until the words "The number of Members" are given. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.0.6 and amendment 1.0.7. are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.0.8 and 1.0.9 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.0.10 to 1.0.20, with the exception of amendment 1.0.15, are precluded by the rejection of amendment 1.0.6. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u197	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to make a note: I wanted to understand whether or not the first signatory is the dominus of the amendment, as you have always argued, since only in this case did you request the opinion of the co-signators. So when the first signatory withdraws, it should be the dominus, so I was taught by the Regulations, but we know that they are dancers. However, I would like to refer you to another question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Perhaps you have not noticed that the other amendments have only one proposer. CRIMI (M5S). No, ma'am. We can go and see, but let's forget about the specific case. Mr President, I call on you to urge President Boldrini to convene Parliament as soon as possible in joint session to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court and the lay members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. My intervention is not obstructive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is absolutely outside the context of the agenda. CRIMI (M5S). It is a reference to the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The order of business does not allow the joint sitting to be requested. We caught his call and he'll reach the recipient. CRIMI (M5S). Since we have two major guarantee bodies blocked, at least we vote for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u198	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.15, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.21, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.22 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u201	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the amendment presents a subject that has already been touched on several times during the debate and also focused on by other previous speeches. In fact, it is expected that there will be 500 Members of the House, giving guarantees of representation to linguistic minorities. The proposed amendment provides that the Constitutional Law establishes within the five hundred Members elected by universal and direct suffrage the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities, without prejudice to the twelve Members elected in the foreign constituency. I do not think we need any more words to describe what is contained in this proposal. President, I would like to draw your attention. As the proposer has the option, I would ask that the amendment be put to the vote separately and that this proposal be taken into account. I read the motion for a separate vote. As regards the first vote: After the article insert the following: Article 1-a (Amendments to Article 56 of the Constitution). In Article 56 of the Constitution, the first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following: "Constitutional law establishes within the 500 Members elected by universal suffrage and direct the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities". With regard to the second vote, I should like to leave the 12 Members elected in the foreign constituency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani read the text 3 of the amendment, which is contained in the annex, for those who wish to follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). First we vote and then we discuss! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Ferrara's protests.]] Will I have the right to speak or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, were enrolled to speak the Senators Ghedini, Casini, Quagliariello and Luigi Marino. On the request for a split vote, Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I have not heard the wording of the motion for a separate vote. I ask that it be repeated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I repeat, following the text of the amendment in the annex to page four. As regards the first vote: In Article 56 of the Constitution, the first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following: "Constitutional law establishes within the five hundred members elected by universal suffrage and direct the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities". As regards the second vote: Without prejudice to the twelve Members elected in the foreign constituency. I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on amendment 1.0.22 (text 3), tabled by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The request is not approved, as it could be visually assessed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u205	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we had already established in previous sittings and in previous votes, sticking to your statement on the substance and reasons for secret votes, that secret voting would be guaranteed in a strict manner on the subjects for which the Constitution provides. We therefore call for a different vote by separate parties, so that it is clear that the secret voting party is closely linked to the protection of representation or to the definition of the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities. We therefore call for the vote on the amendment to be divided: a first vote from the beginning of the amendment to the words "universal and direct suffrage" and a second vote - on which I believe she will admit the secret vote - on the words "the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities". Finally, I would like to point out - and I would ask you if you would like to put them to the vote - that the words'slow' remain the twelve Members elected in the foreign constituency, since this is already provided for in the text in force and in the text voted by the Commission. Finally, we rejected the proposal relating to the part concerning the election by universal and direct suffrage, yesterday, with dozens and dozens of votes, having already rejected it for the first time on Tuesday, with the rejection, by secret vote, of the text of amendment 1.88. I therefore believe that, if we are to stick to the substance, to the substantial vote on the amendments, it is out of place to re-produce a vote on this issue. [[Applause from Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u208	To be fair, Senator Candiani, on the request for a split vote, I must ask - as I did before - for the vote of the House. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). You can't! CRIMI (M5S). The House voted 'no'! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Candiani. I give the floor to the proposer of the amendment, but I do not accept any further discussions. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that it would be useful for everyone to reread the shorthand of the sitting on 29 July, the other day, when I myself asked for a split vote which was accepted, put to the vote and rejected by you. Following this request there was a speech by Senator Ciampolillo, who asked for a split vote. You, Mr President, did not allow it by closing the debate, as it was already voted on. This happened two days ago. I think, for obvious reasons of symmetry, you can't find a different behavior. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u209	Thank you for quoting the previous one, Senator Candiani. However, Senator Ciampolillo did not propose a different... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] This is my memory: it was a general request, which is not... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u210	Mr President, I think you are looking for a balance. It is natural that what is under discussion is much more than what can appear by reading the words. We are talking about the fundamental freedom, for a senator, of being able to express oneself without suffering political compressions. This is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure protect it precisely. We have already witnessed, again this morning, attempts to force your own person and the Senate House itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u211	Look what attempts I've made to force on my person I haven't felt.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u212	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I believe that you will have no hesitation in choosing in the most respectful way for the democratic vote of this House, which, I remember, is expressed by applying the secret vote, without being subjected to any pressure. The attempt, on the contrary, not to admit, or in any case to render this motion for a secret vote ineffective, also runs counter to what our Rules of Procedure have to say about the meaning of the same article, at a time when it may be separated. In fact, the fourth paragraph of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure provides what can be admitted by secret ballot, but this issue has already been overcome. We must then refer to Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, which defines how the amendments may be divided. It is permissible to vote separately, but each party that is maintained must have a meaning. What we proposed earlier had meaning, which the House rejected. The House therefore voted on this, considering that the amendment should be put to the vote in its entirety. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-ILC Groups]] and Mixed-MovX).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u214	You have the right to do so. She's the proposer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u215	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I repeat the reasons for the request. We have asked you, Mr President, to follow the criterion you have already used, for example - and I repeat this - in the split vote and in the allocation of the secret vote on amendment 1.88, in which the split vote was intended to protect the secret vote, which is certainly permitted by the Rules of Procedure and provided for in the Constitution, but only on the subjects for which the Constitution strictly governs it, and cannot be used forcefully to put to the secret vote unplanned and unprotected subjects in the Constitution, on which the Assembly and the senators, even more freely, by clear vote, have the right and the duty to express themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group and the NCD Group]] I do not understand why we should vote secretly on the numerical composition of the Chambers. What right do we go to harm? What protection are we going to ask for? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in a consistent and precise manner. [[Applause from Senator Pignedoli]] and therefore to accept the request I made a moment ago, and please state the part of this amendment on which you believe you should ensure that the secret vote is protected. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi and Chiavaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u218	[[Senator Palma's comments.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is clear to everyone that, precisely in order to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, Senator Ghedini, we cannot attempt to do what has been done with regard to amendment 1.88. In order to break it, you have in fact brought to the vote a gerund, that is, a phrase that did not make any sense from the point of view of Italian. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC Groups]] and Mixed-MovX). If you do not want to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, at least respect the Italian language, please! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC Groups]] and Mixed-MovX).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u221	ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, I'd like to... [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] MORONESE (M5S). Stop! LUCIDES (M5S). Let's respect the order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since a note has been made on a previous request, I call the Parent Company, Senator Zanda. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Please be quiet. It is useless to continue with all this gazzarra, on this topic anyone will talk about it. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you what is the rule that presides over this debate. I asked you for the floor before, when you voted on the previous request for a separation of arguments and you did not give it to me, I believe that you should do so and should not give it to me, because in these cases the word is not given. Now you are again opening a debate in a case where the debate cannot be opened. You must have the vote, we have the right to vote on this separation of an amendment, just as we have the right to vote with a clear vote on what the Constitution requires to be voted on by a clear vote! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] This is what we are asking for and nothing more, and we must be able to vote for it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] WHITE (NCD). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u222	I follow the enrollment order in giving the floor, because on this subject, since I have to decide and I have already decided, although without having placed the theme of separation, whether it was different or not, so my previous decision (I checked the minutes)... (Senator Fucksia goes to the chair.) Please, a little silence. Senator Fucksia, get to your seat and stay in your place. If I may resume what I was saying, as Senator Ciampolillo made a generic request that, as such, was rejected... ( [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I have the report in my hand and I have checked, on this new request to vote separately, I think I can hear those who request it, because precisely the subject is sensitive and since I will have to make a decision, I ask those who have signed up to talk about explaining their positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u225	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I would like to put a point to your attention and to the attention of this House. You are in a position at this moment to put a procedural change to a vote by which the majority, expressing their request for a split vote, could determine the outcome of what is the subject of the amendment. In the face of this option, you are in the same condition as Solomon, that is to say, you know that you are the one who is in the faculty, and also absolutely in the duty, to decide on the secret vote. I therefore trust that you will not subject a principle to the conditioning aspect of majority voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u228	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I apologise to all of you, but I would like to speak with a small premise, if you will, of a personal nature. I was lucky enough to serve in the country for about 25 years as a magistrate and by four legislatures I believe I serve my country as a Member of the Republic. I always imagined that ours was a great Constitution, a still modern Constitution, a Constitution still at the forefront and I always imagined that the modifying approach to our Constitution should be serious and completely detached from the interests and conveniences of the moment. That Constitution - you have reminded many - was the result of an agreement of opposing parties that, in seeking moments of mediation, looked to the future and tomorrow of this country. I have been listening to speeches in this House for a few days, of which I clearly understand the reasons and the reasons, all based on bureaucratic and regulatory quirks, as well as on the legitimacy or not of separate votes, that is something that has nothing to do with the intent of those who want to seriously amend our Constitution. And behind the usage of the eligibility of the separate vote on linguistic minorities, a different objective is sought than that of the amendment of the Constitution. Then I would like to say one thing, Senators: do you really think that an amendment without the mandatory rule that the Chamber of Deputies is made up of 500 people, as our Constitution states today and - as we shall see - is enshrined in the Commission's text in the article on the Senate? The number of Members, in its precise indication, disappears in the Constitution and becomes an inscribed within another rule built precisely in this sense so as to allow, through the representation of linguistic minorities, the secret vote. Do we really think that we can change our Constitution, even from a lexical and grammatical point of view, bending the constitutional writing to the achievement of another objective, all entrenched, perhaps for lack of trust in our people, behind a secret vote? A secret vote that makes sense - alas, in this legislature we have forgotten it at least on one occasion - in order to guarantee the conscience of individuals to move freely outside the pressure of the powerful on duty or of an equally powerful public opinion. But it's a secret vow you have to explain to me. What reason can you have in saying that there must be 500 Members? What freedom must be guaranteed to the individual senator in saying 500 instead of 400 instead of 600? And, similarly, what freedom must be granted to the senator or the Member in ensuring the representation of linguistic minorities? Are you really convinced that the mere reference to linguistic minorities, not in the sense of touching on the substance of their rights and their protection, rather in affirming it in the Constitution, protecting the representation of linguistic minorities, is something that, within such a built-up amendment, can guarantee the secret vote? I would like to say that - and then, Mr President, let us do everything we have to do - all that is allowed - alas for a practice that is often not noble - within an ordinary law, the instrumental use of certain mechanisms, even in the regulations, must be relegated to a constitutional law! But what is the point of writing within the 500 Members, when in our Constitution, as in the Constitutions of the whole world, a paragraph is dedicated to indicating the number of Members? I ask the senators (just to remember that those who will read the reports of these sessions tomorrow will laugh at what we are doing), not to bend the writing of our Constitution to party interests and to achieve an instrumental objective such as dropping the reform; because we do not want this reform and we want another one. If this is our goal and yours, then let's face to face! Each of us has the courage to vote clearly on the desire to break down a reform. That is all I want to say, concluding: who needs the secret vote to find courage, courage does not have it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u231	CASINI (PI). Mr President, it is clear, but this is part of our parliamentary life always, that the various issues for the purposes of eligibility for one type of vote or another are in many cases instrumental uses. I do not blame Senator Candiani, because he did his job, but Senator Ghedini's request is impeccable, partly because I would like to remind you that on the subject of the number of Members of the House of Members we have already voted on several amendments and several others have rightly been kangarooed by her, on the basis of the principle that had already been voted on on the issue of the number of Members of Parliament. We now, using the escamotage of the quotation of linguistic minorities, are going to vote again on a principle on which the House has already expressed itself, affecting one of the basic issues governing and presiding over the life of a Parliament: we never vote on the same subject for more than once! In fact, having already voted, as we have done, on this subject inevitably precludes a subsequent vote. Now you are probably right to have announced this morning the secret vote on this amendment. I do not dispute that decision, but new facts have taken place today. The new fact is that the Senate has already spoken about the number of Members from the other branch of Parliament. This makes it not only plausible, but inevitable to accept and submit to the Senate vote, the request of Senator Ghedini, because this request keeps firm the spirit according to which you granted the secret ballot, that is, the spirit of the protection of linguistic minorities evoked in amendment 1.0.22 (text 3). At the same time, Senator Ghedini's request protects us from an issue from which we must escape, for the simple reason that we have already spoken on it this morning and other amendments have been made to lapse, by her and not by us. So the principle is the same. I believe, even as the former President of the House, that there is no alternative but to put the amendment to the vote by separate parties. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u234	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I think that this is a fundamental principle. I lived a time when the secret vote was the rule; a time that we cannot remember with pleasure because, thanks to the secret vote, a large part of that public debt has been produced, whose burden weighs on the public policy of our country. We have passed, through the reforms of the House and Senate Regulations, to an exceptional dimension of the secret vote, to a dimension that is traced back to the Constitutional Charter, and, in it, to the issues considered more sensitive. What we now have to decide is whether this limited dimension of the secret vote only refers to these issues, whether substantively the regulations should be read in this sense, or whether instead a parliamentary formalism can prevail which allows implicitly, incidentally, to make the House decide by secret voting matters which, on the contrary, deserve the most explicit evidence of the vote of Members. It is this principle, this choice, as Mr Ichino advised us yesterday, between a formal reading and a substantial reading of the Regulations, which we must make. Formalism is the worst enemy of our democracy. If we want to regain the centrality of the person, if we want to bring every public action back to the substantial dimension and free ourselves from the traps of formalism, we must make choices, also here, that put back to the secret vote what is of the secret vote and to the clear vote what is of the obvious vote, beyond the coherence of the Italian language, because there is coordination to solve formal profiles of this type. I appeal to you, President, for this choice in favour of substantiveism against any formalism that kills democracy. I hope that you will make this choice in correct terms and that we can all feel part of this House, as otherwise would not happen. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u237	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to point out that our Rules of Procedure do not only provide for the secret ballot of constitutional bodies, but require that this should not be done. If we go into the history of the amendments to our Rules of Procedure, that is the difference between our Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. When, in 1988, as Senator Sacconi recalled, the discipline of the secret vote was changed after a long discussion, President Spadolini, with the famous praise Spadolini, demanded that there should be a clear vote in the matter of constitutional bodies in order to prevent the senators, behind the secret vote, from preventing the reform of the bicameralism that was already discussed at the time, and that he found in the senators the strongest resistance. Therefore, he claimed that the discipline of the Senate did not include, as in the Rules of the House, the extension of the secret vote to the matter of constitutional bodies. So, Mr President, I think we cannot agree to go back 30 years and allow the Senate and the senators to hide behind the secret vote to prevent constitutional reform. We are debating who does not agree to do so by a clear vote, but to keep the secret vote on this matter is not to protect the dignity of this House and of the senators. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u240	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I'd like you to listen, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you find that I don't usually listen? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Please listen to me because then there are senators who... president. But do you find that I don't usually listen? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Excuse me. Absolutely not. I am not a constitutionalist, I am a worker who has been lucky enough to live - thanks to so many workers who have believed in it - the good experience and to be here. So I'm trying to bring their voice to this House as well. I think that the Constitution is 60 million Italians, among whom, Mr President, there are so many workers, housewives, normal people, as I usually say. Here, every time there is a problem - I see it like this and I apologize if I'm a little raw - there are professors trying to say theirs. I would remind these professors that, unfortunately for the Italians and for this House, they are neither Aldo Moro, nor Di Vittorio, nor De Gasperi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Unfortunately, they have been here for thirty years - I say this with regret - and not only do they not feel responsible for the crisis that Italy is going through, but they always dump it on others. On this reflection I think that everyone should examine conscience: I think there is a great need for it. Mr President, I would ask you very kindly, with full respect - I assure you - not to reduce this debate to what we are witnessing, with general words and everything else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u241	Your request, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u242	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). The request is to adopt the same measure because the Constitution belongs to everyone. Nobody here wants to block reforms. We want to put a stop to this reform which has nothing to do with respect for democracy, because this means that more and more areas of democracy are being reduced. I therefore ask you to adopt - I am sure you are able to do so - the same method adopted two days ago and therefore to give everyone the opportunity to express themselves with fair and fair conditions for all. It doesn't seem that way right now. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u245	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, when the secret vote appears at the doors, the ninety calibers take part. Excuse me if there is even a small hill among many high peaks. Here you are really playing to reverse the state of things and since Pontius Pilate also had the truth in front but did not want to recognize it, I think you are making the same attempt to mystify the facts that are elementary. The first is that the freedom of expression of a citizen, of a Member of Parliament, is more guaranteed by the secret vote than by the obvious vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Otherwise, put in the Constitution the fact that you no longer vote in the cabin: we pass in front of the seat, we express ourselves freely and we go home. The second issue is eminently political and we had the results no later than 15 minutes ago. In other words, in this Chamber, which - including myself - is a Chamber of nominees in which a draft law is being discussed which will make the nominations of the nominees, i.e. those appointed to the square, the dominant fear is that they will not be re-elected. Therefore there is a discrasia between the occult and the obvious behaviors that is born in each of us (I also put myself, although I am far beyond the limit of caution) from this unconfessed blackmail, from this unconfessed fear of the Baston leader, of the party leader, who marks at the index the dissimilar behavior of the parliamentarians. So, the fact of wanting - as Senator Mauro says - with the artifice of the separate vote, to change in substance the amendment proposed by Senator Candiani is not only a forgery, but it is also a device of low league. What's the matter? Either we vote clearly or we vote occultly: we need the same courage. I'm not of the opinion of Senator Palma, who I like better when he's an arsonist rather than a firefighter during his speeches. The problem is that since it is a subject that affects - as well as the other amendment by Senator Candiani - the civil rights of ethnic minorities, the delicacy of the subject would require - as the President of the Senate seems to have already absent - the secret vote. That the peculiarity and value of the vote can change in the way in which the vote is expressed, I think it is a huge one. I don't want to quote again, but I read somewhere that democracy is the thing that allows lice to devour the lion. Therefore, in the secrecy of the vote, I believe that the individual senators can, with serenity of mind and without any prejudice and psychological pressure, freely express their vote. Therefore, I urge President Grasso to keep the vote by secret ballot, convinced as I am that the government will again go under with the numbers also in this case. I conclude by saying that someone is concerned that the reduction of Members from 625 to 500 may create complications. As I have already told the friends of the Democratic Party, the complication creates it for you who already find, with this law, a number of MPs allocated by a majority of less than the number of MPs you currently have in the Chamber of Deputies. So, do us the courtesy! We have now thrown our hearts beyond the obstacle. No one's running for us. But isn't it better a lion's day than a hundred sheep's? [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Cardiello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u248	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I will make two brief comments. First of all, I would ask you to maintain the same criterion with regard to any subsequent requests for unpacking of amendments, the same line you followed last time with Senator Ciampolillo. Secondly, I would like to make a comment on the basis of what Senator Sacconi said. This is not about taking formalistic attitudes. It's simply about complying with the rules, rules that sometimes come back comfortable, sometimes they come back uncomfortable, but that always have to be. If the Rules of Procedure stipulate that on the subject of linguistic minorities one can vote by secret ballot and - I say this incidentally - free from party discipline constraints well then it is freely decided according to its own convictions on the Constitution of the Italian Republic. And above all, it should come from those who do not agree, who respect this regulation, who respect the rules that allow this House to continue to move forward, even when the majority - relying on the same rules as they now demand flexibility - force and conculcate the legitimate demands of the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u251	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, we understand that this is a rather delicate time and I would like to make my contribution to making a correct decision, but above all consistent with what has happened in recent days. How could I disagree with Senator Zanda when he asks and says we have the right to vote? This right will obviously not be denied. How could I disagree with Senator Ghedini when she asks to proceed by analogy with what has happened in recent days? But I would suggest a variant, I would give you the input to go by analogy with the cases exactly similar to what we are now facing. I remember that in recent days there have been four precedents with some senators of my Group, Senators Cotti, Marton and the aforementioned Senator Ciampolillo [[On the bench of the Presidency, Senator Latorre approaches President Grasso to speak to him. Protests from the M5S Group.]] I would kindly ask my colleague to leave President Grasso... Mr President, it is a minimum contribution to your decision, but I would like it not to be disturbed by my colleague in the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u252	Of course, the subject was different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u253	PETROCELLI (M5S). Exactly. All the more reason. I was reminding you that, in my view, analogies should be made with exactly the same cases. The specific cases I was referring to also concern my Group. Senators Cotti, Marton, Ciampolillo (already mentioned) and last - very precise case - Senator Puglia had a very special treatment, different from that reserved to Senator Ghedini. I wouldn't want Senators of the Five Star Movement to have any treatment other than that that might be reserved for Senator Ghedini's request. You mentioned earlier, with regard to the case of Senator Ciampolillo, that this was not an articulated request. In fact, he did not continue Senator Ciampolillo, blocking him as he articulated his request for a new split vote by saying the textual words: "It has already been requested and voted." So he blocked it. At the 295th sitting on 30 July, there is a much more specific case that I would like to refer to them. Senator Puglia asked her: "Mr President, I would like to propose, again on Amendment 1,1492, a different division of the proposal for separate voting." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The senator was making a proposal and you, Mr President, interrupted him by saying exactly: The request for a split vote has already been rejected, Senator Puglia. Senator Puglia repeated: "So isn't it possible?" She ended by cutting off the speech with a no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr. President, I wouldn't want you to give Senator Puglia unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u254	At the end of the debate, I will reply to you on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u257	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that we should tear the veil of hypocrisy which, in fact, is enveloping this debate, taking into account the debate that has taken place in these hours. I say this because there is a fundamental problem, beyond the Byzantine artifice of the dispute over the Regulations or all this. The combination between the previous vote and the fact that we do not now vote on this amendment - I say this as a man in the communication - threatens to cast a shadow on the type of work we are doing. We run the risk of giving the idea that the constituent spirit which should be living in this room is actually under pressure. I believe that the majority and the government should be the first to accept the idea of secret voting for a very simple reason. At this point I could easily turn the accusation made by the President-in-Office of the Council, namely that those who are in here legislate and change the Constitution and that, if they do not want to change it, it is because they think of the chair. The opposite can happen: if you are afraid of the secret vote, I imagine that those who move and take a position do so by thinking exactly about the purpose of which the President-in-Office accused us. I therefore appeal. I said that last time: perhaps it was better not to admit the secret vote or not to decide it, but now we are really in danger of giving the idea of an outside-conditioned Chamber. I would like to address my colleagues in the PD in particular. The texts of the constituent assembly should be reread. On April 23, 1947, a communist president of the constituent assembly, Umberto Terracini, decided to accredit the secret vote. He did so independently with institutional sensitivity on an extremely sensitive subject. There was a long discussion and in the end who gave the last push saying basically: "We are a minority, we are 104 communists, but we do not accept the challenge of the secret vote" was Palmiro Togliatti. Imagine that after 60 years there is a minor institutional and democratic sensitivity on the part of the PD Group lets me think a lot. I think that from this point of view we give an image for which then there was a work in the constituent Assembly in which the constituent spirit hovered, while now we risk reasoning on a very important text, at the basis of our Republic, thinking of something else, with interferences that give an original sin that we will regret in the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u258	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u260	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, thank you for the debate you are allowing on this matter. I have always been respectful of the decisions that are taken both in this House and in the Commission, in the building as a whole, unlike others who always have something to object to, but it seems to me that the decision on the secret vote on this amendment has already been taken abundantly and must be a peacefully consolidated fact within this House. Senator Casini is right when he says that everyone here is doing their job and, therefore, that Senator Candiani has tabled his amendment and, consequently, has requested that this be voted for separately. This has its value. Just as it's worth what Senator Ghedini said. The fundamental fact is that, as everyone learns the lesson in this House too, one always tends to look for the solution that can be most favourable to you. Since you, not later than these days we have spent, referred to precedents dating back to 1996, we are now paying your attention to the precedents of which you are the protagonist. I hope that at least you will want to stick to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u261	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u263	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I shall try to be brief. As a senator in the first legislature, therefore with little experience, I have begun to understand the Rules of Procedure a little bit, partly from its reading, partly from the practical use made of them in recent days. I understand one thing: the decision on the secret vote is the President's and it is an unappellable decision. More than 900 requests have been made, some have been defined and we have moved forward. I also understood that the proposal to unpack an amendment was decided - this too - by the President in an unappellable way, or decided to have it voted, without debate, by the House. The House then decides whether or not it considers the amendment to be unpackable. This House has already decided for no. So, I'd move on because, at this point, I'm not comfortable with a political part that's being obstructive, in fact. I would remind you that President Zanda has risen several times asking for the Conference of Leaders to be convened in order to speed up the work; now he has obviously slowed them down artificially, bringing out an argument that does not exist. I would like us to hurry to release the ministers and other members of the government as soon as possible from the obligation to be present in this House. I am very sorry to see Minister Pinotti constantly present in this House, knowing that today, in India, the maròs have received another slap from Indian justice and that there has been yet another postponement of a decision that we have been waiting for a long time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to see the other Ministers and Undersecretaries, but I no longer want to mention them, because it seems to me as an example that can be enough. I think we should really hurry and not go into detail about this, because, honestly, we should read the amendment, it is a tragedy. Someone opposes voting what? Universal suffrage is directed to the Chamber of Deputies? But are we questioning this too? Even when this value was combined with the 500 and not with the 630 Members (live God!) What's the problem? Let's move on, let's vote. Everything clearly says that it has already been decided to go to the secret vote. Nothing's going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u266	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I appreciate the fact that you have been chairing this House for days without being changed by the Vice-Presidents. I appreciate that because it is a delicate moment when we face a measure that concerns our Constitution. I believe, however, that you have allowed too broad a debate on the secret vote or not on this amendment, which in my opinion (I think it differently from many of my colleagues who have spoken) was not even admissible. Why? This amendment has three main points. The first states that the elected Members in the foreign constituency must be 12. We are not voting on a confirmation: we are voting on the amendments, certainly not - I repeat - a confirmation. The second point: there were at least four votes in this House on the number of Members and, as far as minority languages are concerned, at least ten votes. But how many times do you have the House vote on the same subject? [[Applause from Senators Casini and Sacconi.]] That is not possible, Mr President. She had to make a decision. Allow me, I have been here for days and this is the first time I have asked for the floor. On this amendment it was you who had to say that we had already voted; instead it allowed such a broad debate on the secret vote or not. But the problem is not whether the vote should be secret or not, it is that we have already voted on these issues. As far as the 12 Members elected abroad are concerned, I have never seen an amendment which provides for confirmation, but always changes. [[Applause from Senators Giro and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u269	SCALIA (PD). Mr President, Senator Matteoli anticipated what I meant. We have already voted on the number of Members, approving Article 1. So there is clearly no amendment 1.0.22 (text 3) in the part where it indicates a different number of Members. It would be absurd, if it were put to the vote in this way and if it were approved, to add to the constitutional law an article 1-a which contrasts with Article 1. Therefore, of the two: either it is separable and we accept the proposal for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ghedini, and then we vote on the part concerning linguistic minorities with the secret vote and we declare that the remaining part is not included, or the amendment is all foreclosed. I don't think you can get out of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u272	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like briefly to make a small contribution to this decision, which is very difficult (I suppose it is one of the most difficult for you). With this decision, you will impact on two types of freedom: the freedom of an opposition senator, Senator Candiani, who wants to propose this amendment, rightly linking the issue of linguistic minorities to the composition of the new Senate, and the freedom of those who are to vote on this amendment. You see, Mr President, we are all here without a mandate and, in an ideal and perfect world, that alone would be enough and there would be nothing more to ensure the freedom of expression of all. But unfortunately, Mr President, we do not live in an ideal and perfect world; we live in the real world, which is imperfect, and therefore there are human weaknesses. Precisely to cope with these human weaknesses there is the institute of secret vow. I stress the adjective 'human', because these are not only of a political part, only of the PD or only of Forza Italia. In fact, my political history in this legislature - the details of which you know well and will remember well - makes me say that they concern everyone here and that there is no one immune from these human weaknesses. That is why I would ask you to accept the request for a secret vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u273	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u275	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, I have asked to speak to justify my opinion on the new wording of Senator Candiani's amendment 1.0.22. I will try to explain the reasons for this, since - as is clear to all - this amendment has content which has resurrected a debate which, of course, formally concerned the voting procedures (which I do not allow to enter), but which in fact looked at the substance and substance of the amendment. My opposite opinion could begin by expressing itself at the end of the very short reading that I shall be doing. Article 56 of the Constitution: The Constitutional Law establishes the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities within the five hundred members elected by universal and direct suffrage, without prejudice to the twelve members elected in the foreign constituency. This would be the first part of Article 56 of the Constitution. I do not discuss the preceptive quality of this standard, yet I could do so for a long time. This rule, for example, could give rise to a first objection. If the constitutional law establishes within the five hundred Members elected by universal and direct suffrage the minimum number of representatives of linguistic minorities and the only claim that the House of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage is what our Charter says today in Article 56, which continues: The number of Members is six hundred thirty (...) and so on, with this wording we could have a hypothesis, obviously entirely hypothetical, probably absolutely pessimistic and catastrophic, for which the House of Deputies certainly has five hundred directly elected deputies and then maybe has four hundred fifty appointed by the Government. I say this not because here we demand to have the cloths of the Constitution rinsed in Arno, as did the Constituents, entrusting to the linguists the last draft of the Constitution, but at least we must have the awareness that every word we write in the Constitution weighs, as it must weigh in the fundamental law. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Including the Gerunds? FINDING, rapporteur. With this amendment, the possibility of an interpretation that is what I have said is absolutely possible and constitutionally legitimate. This is the first reason why I am against the first-signed amendment by Senator Candiani. But I am also expressing this opinion for two more reasons, which have already been raised in this House by my fellow Members. What is the novelty of the Candiani amendment? Is it the protection of linguistic minorities? Is it the universal and direct vow? Is that the number of 500 Members? President Casini said: "We have already done this." We have dealt with these issues with serial votes - with the kangaroo system, as we say - tens of times in these days and dozens of times this House has spoken by majority, rejecting the two principles - I would say more: the two statues - both on the fact that the vote by which the House is elected is by universal suffrage and direct as on the number of Members, which has been tabled in many amendments to scale. Divine Senator, perhaps we did not vote for the amendment which provides for the number of 500 Members, because it was absorbed by an amendment proposing the number of 545 or 393 or 264 Members and so on. Certainly the concept, the statement - rectius - the will of Parliament not to alter the number of Members as provided for in the current Constitution has already been formed in this House dozens of times. That is the point and that is the substance of my opinion against it. The rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, will deliver another opinion. Colleagues, it is not for me to assess, not the consequences of a vote on the text - that is a matter which belongs to this House, which is sovereign, and to the free determination of each of our colleagues - but the effect of a secret vote establishing a principle that has been rejected dozens of times by clear vote: I refer to the effect on the goodness of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Quagliariello, Casini and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u276	If there aren't any more surgeries, I'll try to answer them. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SACCONI (NCD). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said, if there are no other surgeries. Do you want to report any more surgeries? Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to answer the question of the split vote, which Mr Petrocelli put so precisely. The Assembly, pursuant to Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, shall vote on the split vote only once. If the request for a split vote were accepted, the Assembly would then be asked to take part in a number of proposals for separation. Therefore, as has already been decided, the new request for a split vote cannot be accepted, in accordance with the numerous precedents that have been mentioned and to which I refer. However, in this case, I would like to stress that the assessments I made were on the original text. The text has undergone two rewordings, in fact we are in text 3 and therefore the text 3 of Senator Candiani's amendment 1.0.22 in my opinion, as it is designed, would in no way be divisible. Turning now to the question of the secret vote, I would remind you that on 23 July, following the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I set out to the Assembly the general eligibility criteria for over 900 applications, including in the favourable assessment, the precise, precise reference to linguistic minorities. Subsequently, at its meeting on 29 July, on the subject of linguistic minorities, the Assembly voted by secret ballot on amendment 1.32, which was entirely a replacement for Chapter 1 of the draft law, and this was done after the adoption of a request for a split vote on the first part of the amendment, closely related to the representation of linguistic minorities, and after the absorption of the part concerning respect for gender balance following the adoption of amendment 1.1713 at the first signature of Senator Fedeli, in text 3 which was approved. In other words, the secret vote was properly limited to a question directly attributable to the provisions of Article 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure on linguistic minorities. Therefore, even in the light of the very recent previous two days ago, the secret vote on amendment 1.0.22 (text 3) is not acceptable. MARTON (M5S). Afraid of the secret vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.22 (text 3), tabled by Senator Candiani. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene]] . (The vote was followed). [[Very lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[He lives, repeated, protests from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL groups. Applause from the PD Group.]] I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.28 a.m. and resumed at 16.19 a.m.) The session is resumed. Colleagues, I've read some agencies. You saw that it was 1.30 p.m. and, as we agreed, the hearing of Minister Mogherini had to begin in the Chamber of the Defence Commission. So at 1.30 p.m. the sitting closed and it has recovered now, and the hearing of the Minister has also ended. I do not think I have to explain it, but I want to give it to you because you know that I have decided on the secret vote after examining 920 requests for a secret ballot. My assessment, and the subsequent decision, was to admit the secret vote for the protection of linguistic minorities as an unchangeable fundamental principle of our Constitutional Charter provided for in Article 6. I therefore considered that principle to be absolutely valid, as well as the matters referred to in Article 113 (4) which, according to those admitted, concern the family and health, precisely because I considered that those functions were worthy of parliamentary protection and the mere fact of depriving them of parliamentary protection and evaluation could be something upstream of the subject of the evaluation. But that is not the point. I would like to point out that I specifically specified, also in my speech, when I admitted the secret vote for the protection of linguistic minorities, that all the instruments allowed by the Constitution, our Regulations, precedents and practice would have been used to innovate, provided that the decision on the protection of linguistic minorities was not used to have other parts of amendments for which the clear vote is provided and not the secret vote voted on by secret vote. I'd like that to be clear. That was my decision, and these were the principles that inspired me and which I stated before moving forward. I have maintained my faith and consistency with those principles, taking decisions that from time to time have displeased different parts. In the specific case of Senator Candiani's amendment, his repeated rewording of the initial one, which I evaluated in the initial phase, and the sovereign vote of the Assembly, which rejected the request for a split vote, put me in a position to review what had been my assessment on the basis of those principles that I had stated. As recently formulated, and also as a result of the decision I said to the House, which did not allow separate votes, the amendment could only be voted in its entirety. And since it contained two components subject, as you know, to two separate voting regimes - a secret and a clear one - I felt that I was applying the general rule of our Rules of Procedure of clear voting. Moreover, I would remind you that this House had just voted by secret vote on the subject of family and health, another amendment signed by Senator Candiani. I believe, in this way, that I have respected, both in form and in substance, the rules laid down in the Constitution and in our Regulations, without accepting that these rules bend from time to time by any party interest. That's what I want to say. I also want to say that this is what I have done and what I will continue to do as long as I play this role, even at the cost of displease anyone and different parts. I wanted to make this point. Whoever decides, of course, often makes decisions that are uncomfortable for those who receive them. Precisely because everyone has been unhappy, I believe - precisely - that I have remained in a third party position and I will continue to make all my assessments, having in mind this principle, as long as I play this role. Thank you and excuse me. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u279	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have let you make your speech, without interrupting it at all, even though you do not believe one of the words you have spoken. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There are some colleagues in this House who are long enough to say that we have already seen the Rules of Procedure being enforced, but like those that have been done these days - at least in memory of those who speak - they have never, never seen each other. What you say, Mr President, may serve as a modesty to cover up what has been done now, but you cannot deny what you said a few days ago about the pressure and your jacket pulled from one side to the other, until it has been disfigured. She said so. Big pressure has been put on something here not according to rule, but according to opportunity. Whose? Who in this House has the opportunity; certainly not the opposition. You, Mr President, cannot say that you did not see Mr Candiani stand up and, if you had not seen him, you cannot say that you did not hear the whole Group of the North League asking for the floor immediately after the vote. You have decided to close the session and, if you will allow me a tone that I used very strongly, run away like thieves do at night. You're here and you're talking. He should have done exactly as he did in this sitting at least five times: he cancelled the vote, gave the floor to the authors and then put the amendment back to the vote. We were ashamed of the spectacle that came out of this Senate. There are men who have absolutely no ideas and those men are to be pitied. Then there are men who have ideas, but let them bend or do nothing to defend them: those ideas are worth absolutely nothing or those men are worth absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and from Senators Mussini and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u282	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, although you have tried to justify your sudden exit as an agreed thing, what happened before for us was an escape and your eyes show it when you took the vote, after announcing your decision (which followed a long debate) without taking into account the request to speak from the presenter (who also had every right to withdraw the amendment) and without even giving an explanation of vote on the subject, with so many arms raised by all political forces. Mr President, that is the escape we have witnessed; we have seen a serious fact: it is yet another violation. You have spoken of choices and every time you make a choice there is one party that will surely pay the consequences and the other, perhaps, that will benefit. In these days we have seen choices that have benefited only one party; we have not seen any choice that has allowed oppositions and minorities to see their rights guaranteed. That is also what happened today: you have suddenly opened and closed that debate, one minute after the closure of the sitting, and you are well aware that there were still explanations of vote to be taken. We have only discussed the secret vote and the split-up of the vote, but not the substance of the amendment. This is already the first serious fact. You said that you made a conscious and clearly thought-out decision. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In fact, some interventions and the pressure - so we define it, even if everyone can have the perceptions that he wants and, if she does not perceive it on her, we see it instead, more than perceived - have led her to have to make a different decision. The first secret vote this morning was a demonstration that there is a problem of holding the majority in this reform. It was an important amendment from the point of view of the meaning of individual Articles 29 and 32, but not relevant from the point of view of the overall structure of the reform. It is obvious: it does not change the overall structure of the reform; yet that vote has led the government to go under: it is a demonstration, it is a signal. On this amendment, which does no harm to the general system, we give you a signal: there is a large majority here which disagrees with the general system of this reform and not with the whole reform or with the need or need for reform, because on these aspects, on the other hand, many agree. The overall structure of this reform has been defined by several parties as inconsistent, non-homogeneous, uncoordinated and will bring more damage than anything else. I shall conclude by asking first of all for that vote to be cancelled because you, Mr President, have the right to do so: you demonstrated this when an amendment by Senator Bonfrisco was put to the vote in contrast to one who had already declared that it was rejected, you cancelled that vote. You have, therefore, this faculty: restore at least this passage; restore your original decision, which was ruined by a road accident. In fact, just as Senator Ghedini, starting from the first amendment, tried to create these artifices to avoid getting to the node of the issue, today Senator Candiani put a small stick in the wheel that turned very well in which Senator Ghedini asked something and President Grasso replied already knowing, more or less, the request and the course of the matter. He therefore put a small stick, that is to say, he had the proposal not to split the amendment first voted. So, you had to find another escapismage, because we had already identified a target. I shall conclude, after requesting the annulment of the vote (which I consider necessary, Mr President, and therefore I do not think it can be avoided), by reading a few lines. "I would only like to be able to understand why so many men, villages and cities and nations sometimes endure a tyrant who has no strength but the one given to him; he has no power to harm, except in that he is tolerated. Where did he get so many eyes to spy on you if you didn't lend them to him? How can he have so many hands to take you if he didn't get them from you? So be determined not to serve anymore, and you will be free." Free: that is the word that should represent the vote of every senator in this House. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u283	I repeat that the secret vote that was previously admitted, even in the opinion of many senators who spoke, concerned the installation, the system of all the reform. Therefore, it is a question of the fact that the principles relating to functions have been introduced into Article 55. I do not think it is the right measure to say that this is not important, but that the number of Members is important. CRIMI (M5S). So, we need to modify the implant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I continue to argue that, where there was a request for a secret vote in relation to the function, this was admitted as I had decided. I repeat that if we change the cards on the table, we must allow further assessments, different from the previous ones. I did not want to go into any further details on the rewording of the article and the initial assessments I had made; even the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which this amendment was specifically mentioned, certainly took this into account and the decision on the secret vote was determined - I repeat - by the assessment made on 920 requests for secret voting. Perhaps three have been accepted (plus one more that has been accepted for an amendment on Article 18, paragraph 1, tabled by Senator Casson). Therefore, I repeat that, given the principle, I have applied it while trying not to make an evaluation prevail, through escapitation. Having to choose between black and white (there was nothing else to choose), I decided to apply the general rule, always required by the 5 Star Movement Group, that is, the clear vote. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] CRIMI (M5S). The Rules of Procedure should be changed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The clear vote is the general rule; the secret vote has been accepted for the protection of minorities, on which we had already voted; therefore, the Assembly has voted with the secret vote. Therefore, there was only a clear vote to be applied. This was the very simple reasoning that I have made, without having underwent - I assure you - pressure from anyone. Moreover, the fact that even some meanings and judgements of this kind are attributed to the expression cannot leave peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u286	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we need to understand how we should regulate ourselves. I will not linger to reason on the secret vote, partly because we have listened to his explanatory statement: as far as we can have different opinions, that was the determination and we have accepted it. However, another kind of problem arises. The first is the right of each of us, who have tabled amendments, to intervene on our amending proposal in order to withdraw or transform it. The second is to know the effects of the vote on the basis of the following amendments: how many and what are those foreclosed. In fact, the Senate has the right to vote with absolute awareness on the effects of the vote. In this case, the world has risen in front of us, everyone has seen and could not fail to see the request and the right of the presenter to intervene on the fate of that amendment and of each of us, because of that decision, to make the amendment and bring it to the vote. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, GAL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups]] In the same way, none of us who still had the right to speak in this House could be excluded from the exercise of the explanation of vote. Now, if we go on pretending nothing, Mr President, we are not in a position to create a climate that will allow us to amend the Constitution with conscious, voluntary and free participation in oppositions. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] The oppositions would be forced to take a very serious decision, because they would feel excluded from the examination of this measure. That is why I ask, Mr President, and I support Senator Crimi's request, to review the decision on the outcome of the vote on this amendment, to re-examine its vote and to re-vote it, giving Senator Candiani the opportunity to speak on the fate of the amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u287	He asked Senator Falanga to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u288	Did you give me the floor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, I hadn't seen Senator Campanella, reporting to me now, and I'll give it to him later. I am also informed of Senator Candiani's request for intervention. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Now he saw it, before there were fifty of us and he didn't see us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Council, when I hear requests for intervention I... COUNCIL (LN-Aut). You're number one! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u289	Thank you, President. You see, ladies and gentlemen, making speeches pointing out the Presidency's unsatisfying attitudes to the truth seems to me to be quite ungenerous. Far from me, however, the idea of taking on the role of defender of the office of the presidency of this Senate, I have neither the titles nor the abilities, but I have to say a few words about what happened this morning. Throughout the morning the votes and their results have led to a very special climate which, in my opinion, does not honour this Assembly of the Senate of the Italian Republic. When, in fact, the secret vote for a particular amendment is allowed, the result is totally reversed, in the sense that the dissidents and oppositions that do not emerge at a time of clear vote emerge, in the secrecy of the vote. This means that what is wrong is not in the progress of the work, it is not in the government of the work of this House, but in our consciences. Those who have a clear desire to approve, to share a rule, a draft law, even if it is constitutional, must do so in a calm, clean, public way, both when we vote clearly and when we vote in a secret way, and not do a deal of the convenience of law as we did this morning ( [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group).]] My colleagues invite me to conclude, but I have to vent. There have been moments this morning when I wanted to leave this House and leave! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When in a House of a Parliament we see behaviour of hypocrisy, dark behaviors that do not convey the authority of a popular representation to the outside world, then there is some discomfort in that Parliament to be part of it. I voted in a certain way, and I would have voted in the same way both by clear vote and by secret vote. I therefore say to my fellow Members that if we want the work to continue, we must try to bring out our intimate determinations and vote in the same way both when the vote is clear and when the vote is secret. If that had been the case, the Presidency probably would not have had to find arrangements and adjustments to avoid what, in my opinion, had already occurred on the same morning with the previous vote. It is an invitation: let us continue to work, freely expressing our opinions. Only in this way can we give outside the image of a free Parliament, which expresses itself in absolute freedom and which does not play a game of convenience and does not, as I said earlier, do, of the right, a store of convenience. [[Applause from the M5S Group, LNP-Aut and Senator D'Anna. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u292	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, in the words you said at the beginning of the sitting you reminded us that the general rule of voting in this House prefers to have a clear vote. He also pointed out that the protection of minorities could make it appropriate to disagree with that general rule. He also pointed out that the two issues, the subject that could be voted on with a clear vote and the subject that could be voted on with a secret vote, were included in that amendment which could no longer be broken down. There were, therefore, both elements. What happened was that the considerations that led to the general rule were considered to be more important than the considerations that led to the particular rule in defence of minorities. Now the interest in defending minority voting is the vulnerability of that vote. There was, however, another interest in that clearly vulnerable vote, as it had been vulnerated a few tens of minutes before with another amendment: the majority's interest in controlling their Members who had already rebelled. Now, therefore, I wonder the reasons for your choice in the light of the considerations I have just made. Objectively, his decision has favoured the political interest of the majority. This for me, which I have never mystery of my opinions even when it could be uncomfortable, is rather sad. The majority is already defending themselves very well with its numbers: they are the rules that defend the minority and, with that, freedom. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups. Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u293	Colleagues, one representative per Group may speak on this subject. However, although the Divine Senator has already spoken on behalf of the League, I give the floor to Senator Candiani who feels entitled to intervene and I think it is correct to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u294	I call you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u295	Mr President, I believe that this morning the limit has really been exceeded in respect of the rights of those who sit in this Senate. And that this happens within a measure such as the one we are voting on, of constitutional reform, appears at least very serious; on the contrary, I ask myself whether these continuing violations of the Rules of Procedure do not seriously question the whole measure so far dealt with. Mr President, this morning, as you have pointed out several times, having signed the amendment, I wanted to exercise my right to intervene in order to choose which life to give to it, then allowing others the possibility of subsequent choices. President. - I have not even been able to vote this morning, like other senators. The vote shown on the screens does not correspond to the will of this Senate. There was no explanation of vote. I am not reproaching her for her behavior, also because she would take the floor, remove the image and everything would be obscured, as has happened in recent days. However, I want to mean one thing: the discomfort I feel in this House in the face of a minister who is the only thing he knows how to do is tweet; he does not respond when he is asked for an opinion, the opinion of a government that is not there, of a government that uses these means to shelter itself from the freedom of expression of senators! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups]] President, I have been voting secretly since I was eighteen years old, going into the secret of the urn to lay down my vote. What should I think, that in a few days that too will be superfluous? What do I think, if I don't vote for what Senator Zanda says, that's not okay? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] What do I think, if I speak inappropriately, perhaps in disagreement with what Senator Verdini thinks, then I have to leave the Chamber? This is freedom for individual senators today! I'm ashamed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] I'm ashamed of the history of this Senate. I'm ashamed of how you run this Senate House. I was wrong in the secret vote for the President of the Republic: I voted Napolitano. I wasn't wrong when I didn't vote for her. Be ashamed, because you trample on our freedom! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups. Congratulations.]] CHOIR OF VOICES BY LN-AUT, M5S, ILC- JOINT AND MOVX GROUPS. Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. Until this crazy lady finishes, I'm gonna suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 4.53 p.m. and resumed at 4.55 p.m.) The session is resumed. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.55 a.m. and resumed at 16.56 a.m.) The session is resumed. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You really don't want to go ahead? All right, then please the senators. Quaestors, assistants and Group President... Let's get started. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Whoever gets the riot gets kicked out of the Chamber... CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...and do not take part in the votes throughout the sitting. You have made your demonstration in this House. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Let us now take this seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u296	Colleagues, I have a communication to make. On 30 July 2014, Professor Giuseppe Tesauro sent the following letter: Mr President, I have the honour to inform you, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 1953, that the Constitutional Court, meeting today at its headquarters in the Palazzo della Consulta, elected me President. F.to Giuseppe Tesauro. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u297	Let us start with Amendment 1.0.23. URAS (Misto-SEL). Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras, we understand. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.57 a.m. and resumed at 16.59 a.m.) The session is resumed. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX- JOINT. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the parliamentary assistants to identify the senators who create the turmoil. The sitting is suspended in order to expel all those who do not allow the work of this House to continue. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S, LN-AUT, SEL- JOINT, ILC- JOINT, MOVX JOINTS. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If this is the answer not to continue the work of the House, the sitting will be suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.59 a.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) The session is resumed. We want to continue to understand what we have to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u300	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have asked you a specific question. I would like to speak again because you, Mr President, have even apologized to me about the kangaroo, the first kangaroo, the 600-page kangaroo, both in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and in the Chamber. When he put Amendment No 1.88 to the vote, he did not put the House in a position to know which amendments would have been precluded (he should have said so before the vote), so much so that I, before you put the amendment to the vote, raised my hand to ask you to speak. I would add that I could not even take part in that vote, having my hand raised just to ask you exactly that question. Mr President, you know perfectly well that it was your duty to do this. The first mistake he made, we discussed it and he recognized it. Therefore, we are now firmly asking you, precisely because the rule has not been respected for that vote, to cancel the vote. In fact, you first, indirectly, referring to the secret vote, surreptitiously announced what other amendments would be foreclosed. I repeat now, at this moment, not before. You, Mr President, know perfectly well that we must understand what rules we must play. Otherwise, Mr President, it is difficult to hold onto a real possibility of being in this House, exercising your rights and expressing your thoughts. You can't one day do one thing and another day do another. That is why, Mr President, precisely because it has failed to announce, and therefore the possibility for everyone to know what amendments would have been foreclosed, I would ask you to cancel the vote. I ask you, Mr President, very firmly and politely, to tell us exactly what decisions you intend to take. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u301	As I have already said and announced, I will continue to say what will be the parts that are indicated for power... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). He had to say it first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You want an answer. I am telling you that there are no grounds for canceling previous votes. If you want that answer. Then, if we want to continue, we will continue, otherwise tell me what we want to do. We must continue with the votes. [[Comments from M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]] CRIMI (M5S). President, you can't.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u304	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, I would ask you to have this microphone fixed, because it is unthinkable that every time I speak there should be Mr Volpi to be my crutch. I too ask you a very specific question, given and given what has happened this morning and seen and considering that - you will be able to determine this by re-reading and looking at how the work of the House has gone these days - there has been no opposition that everyone feared, the wall against the wall, even in these days and hours. It seems to me that the votes went as fast as you wished at the meeting of the Leaders. Yet, then, in the end he decided to ruin everything, he decided to ruin that unwritten agreement, perhaps, that situation, that unwritten gentlemen agreement that could be between parliamentary groups with an act quite authoritarian, and if I say enough it is because I want to be moderate of the day. I can't think that you make a decision first, then another one, then in contempt of the rules you make another one and then, with a deer, first you kangaroo then with a beautiful deer decides to make a further decision in contempt of the rules. I compared it, the other day, in an ironic way, to the referee Moreno of the famous game of Italy. I confirm what I said and unfortunately confirm my opinion. But, President, let me tell you something: this House - we are lucky not - has voted for Senator Grasso as President of the Senate. Neither Senator Zanda nor Senator Verdini voted as President of the Senate. As a result, Mr President, you should be above the parties, making decisions above the parties, regardless of what two parties of the Nazarene Pact have told you; because if reforms are to be taken out, then we say so immediately. We all go outside, let this House be empty, save big money and do something else. We still believe in democracy, Mr President. We believe so much in democracy that a few days ago more than 100 parliamentarians, together, with different ideas, of totally different political extractions, who perhaps share one percent of the thoughts and ideas, but who perhaps share that thought of freedom, democracy, freedom of thought, and perhaps are the only things that keep us united well, these parliamentarians, together, asked the President of the Republic for a hearing. The latter did not give us a hearing; he had us talk to the Secretary-General, who told us that the President of the Republic was indisposed, and then see him the day after leaving for the holidays, Mr President of the Senate. So I wonder if I'm indisposed today and can't receive three Senate Leaders, how do I leave for the holidays tomorrow? I say this publicly to all those Members who have believed in the goodness of that operation. Today I don't believe it anymore. I don't even believe the President of the Republic that, like Senator Candiani, I voted. You think, Mr President, I had just been elected neo-senator, I was so excited to be part of a historic moment in the Italian Republic, I also applauded the speech of the President of the Republic. I was so excited that the world knew that I was there at the time to vote for the President of the Republic. Today, as today, we are in a truly embarrassing situation, where the President of the Republic also takes positions, and he is no longer an impartial referee either. This is a very serious matter, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Let me finish, President. I would ask you officially to take a clear position at this time on what all the minority leaders have asked of you. You have to be clear, ma'am. I repeat the request; does it make us take up explanations of vote and then vote, or not? Yes or no. If the answer is yes, fine. [[Applause from Senator Taverna.]] If the answer is no...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u305	Senator Centinario, as you are the Parent Company and make this request, I immediately summon a Conference of the Leaders, so let us clarify these things and come and tell you here. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No, I'll ask him here. President, I'm asking you here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended and the Conference of Leaders is convened, as you speak from the Parent Company. [[Senator Centinaire's protests. The sitting was suspended at 5.10 p.m. and resumed at 8.30 p.m.]] I am suspending the sitting until 9 p.m., so that we can resume this session in a better way. (The sitting was suspended at 20.03 p.m. and resumed at 2.05 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u308	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group because we believe that it is difficult to find the conditions to work peacefully in this House this evening. I will try to make a parallel with a typically Italian story. It is not by chance today, Mr President, that 31 July exactly sixty years ago, very far from our latitudes, bold men conquered what is still called the mountain of the Italians, the K2. It was a great success, at a time when our country was still suffering because it just came out of the tragedy of World War II. It was really a great success. But, unfortunately, as with so many things in this country, it took us fifty years to write the truth, to write the last page of truth about this typically Italian story that became a farce from great success. I believe that today we are all facing our K2 together, and being a mountain enthusiast I believe that we are on the last night of bivouac, at Camp 7, from which really started the conquest on which, unfortunately, we took fifty years to find the truth: two people, who for fifty years were denigrated in our country, offered the conditions for this great Italian success. I really think we're at Camp 7 and we have to face this important achievement: us, the government, the whole country. However, conditions, conditions of truth are needed. Mr President, today has not been a good day for us, for the whole House, but not for you either. We believe we have been victims of what happened today. We believe that, in part, you too are a victim of what has happened today, which does not depend only on oppositions as such, the oppositions that absolutely want to demolish the conditions that allow you to reach the summit. Unfortunately, there is a parallel system of half-truths and even lies that these conditions are undermining. We believe that the oppositions at this time are the victims of all this, and that you are partly the victims. The worst moment, Mr President, was when dozens of senators punctuated the words 'Freedom'. Freedom. Freedom and unfortunately, perhaps manipulated by newspapers (because agencies are always strange, and for this I say that you can also be a victim), the answer was police. We believe that this is really excessive, Mr President. I'm not telling you, I'm telling the whole House. But that is precisely why, Mr President, we believe that at this time, this evening, there are no conditions to be able to deal peacefully with the debate in this House, to resume the debate. Therefore, while bivouacing in the middle of the storm at Camp 7, beyond 8,000 meters, in the hope that tomorrow the sky will be more serene and the wind will calm down, if there will be energy, the will on the part of all these people (that it is not necessary to tie themselves to life but it is enough that they try to walk together not going back to the base camp, but trying to get to the summit), then perhaps at that point it will be possible to create the conditions to get to the summit. We are making the request quietly, Mr President, with our hearts in our hands, and you must not read it as a kind of defeat. Today I think no one can say that they have come out completely victorious from this day. I don't know. Everyone's gonna do their own tests. If, however, the conditions really are still there, you must, first of all, guarantee them: what we want to stress is that today you have not been able to give us these guarantees, unfortunately, so we trust in your intelligence, in your ability to take control of the situation to see everyone together if there really are the conditions to get to the top. Otherwise, everyone for himself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u309	Senator Crosio, thank you. Thank you first of all for the tones, really calm and convincing. I would also like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify something that I have read about the agencies and that does not correspond at all to what I have said. I'm sorry to have to use this scranno. It's about the police. I referred to Rule 69, first paragraph, of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which - as you all know - speaks of the Senate's police, in the sense that the necessary powers are the responsibility of the President. Of course, in the heat and fatigue, I said "police of the hearing" instead of "police of the Senate." [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] And this - I admit - stems from a mistake that I often continue to commit at a time when, instead of the House, I say 'audience'. For me, this House is a hearing. After 43 years I still struggle. This has been misunderstood, as if I wanted to resolve it with the authoritarian powers of the House's police. I merely meant to refer to Rule 69, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure and I hope to be believed in that. Unfortunately, even if I said so immediately, the agencies then become something irrepressible, and then passes the idea that the President of the Senate, Grasso, the first to have tuned "freedom" with you, wants to use authoritarian powers or must be forced to use these powers in order to operate a constitutional body that we all represent, as we represent the country, the nation and the citizens. I regret that my defiance may have emerged in using the word 'audience', but I certainly do not believe that we can move forward with these criteria and authoritarian ideas. I think that together we can find a way, as far as I am concerned, to recover my serenity, determined by the awareness of having done, in good faith, everything that was considered right. You can also make mistakes, but I think you always have to try to give a chance to be believed. That said, anyone who wants can intervene. I invite you to move forward to give Italy, the country and citizens the idea that they really want to move forward with reforms. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, SCPI and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u312	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to propose a very brief reflection on the idea of freedom, which has been so emphasised in this House today. The last vote this morning, by clear ballot, saw 72 votes in favour of Senator Candiani's amendment, 194 votes against and three abstentions. In order to believe that if the vote had taken place in a hidden form the outcome would have been reversed, it must be thought that there are about 65 senators in this House who voted against that amendment because the vote was clear and that they would have voted in favour of the amendment if the vote had taken place in a hidden form. [[Protests from groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut and Senator Giovanardi]] Allow me to speak, be patient! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought you'd crossed that line. ICHINO (SPI). You can't allow a single part... [[Vivacious protests from FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and GAL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u313	I didn't think it was necessary to go back to the question of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u314	ICHINO (SPI). I am not going back to that issue; I just want to clarify, in the face of those who have rightly made transparency, the streaming of their working methods, which here is about freedom to claim the freedom of senators to take their electorate's knowledge of their behaviour in this House. [[Vivacious protests from FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and GAL groups. Senator Centinario heads to the bench of Senator Ichino, protesting vibrantly.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u315	Thank you, Senator Ichino.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u316	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u317	I thought the subject could be over, but it's being taken over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u318	[[Senator De Pin points out that she wants to intervene.]] Senator Martelli, Senator De Pin also asked to intervene. MARTELLI (M5S). If you want, I can give the floor to your colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator, that's very kind and chivalrous of you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u319	Mr President, I have been asking you to speak for three days and I see you looking at me without giving me the floor. Mine is not a polemic, I am not a polemic. I am the last entry to the Senate, in the sense that I have a political life of not even a year and a half, and therefore I will have to apologize if I do not have a proper language in this House, but I would sincerely like to make a request, because I have no political experience, like so many people here. I ask you to abandon the kangaroo technique, and I refer to the primacy referred to in Article 21 of the Constitution. Then you will decide whether the Senate Rules are superior to Article 21 of the Constitution. There is only one problem that I would like to ask you; I make this well-motivated request. On 5 August 2011, the ECB made specific requests to our Government: the full liberalisation of local public services through large-scale privatisation, the adjustment of wages and working conditions to the needs of companies and finally - I quote -, given the seriousness of the current situation on the financial markets, a constitutional reform would also be appropriate. Mr President, there are these doubts and, as President Finocchiaro said, every word here must be a boulder; well, this is a boulder, this is a doubt that I have and that has already occurred; there is already a precedent, and it is the constitutional reform launched in August 2012, as the Senator for Life, Monti reminded us last night. We have this fiscal compact to pay, this reform of the Constitution already made in 2012. I just ask you to let us speak to explain not only to us, who probably already know, but to all those who are outside, what this reform must be, which must be done with the widest possible consensus. So my request is to let us speak to explain to everyone, including the undersigned, the last entry into this Senate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are very honored that the ECB tells us to make reforms and, therefore, we will do them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u320	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u322	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take this invitation, but I have been taught that before we close a speech, we must be sure that we have actually concluded it. So if you'll allow me, I'd go back to what was said before the suspension because some things definitely have to be said. It has been said - and I believe it has happened - that each Group has tried to draw the Rules of Procedure on its side or on the other. This has happened because the Rules of Procedure are basically written imperfectly and, seen in mathematical language, it seems quite clear to me. Our Group, as the facts show, has never tried to bring the Rules of Procedure to its side. We have always said the same thing: that the Rules of Procedure should apply exactly as they are, to the letter and without bending it. If, then, a regulation shows that it is defective in the light of the facts, it must not be distorted because we realize that it is no longer appropriate: we must change the Rules of Procedure. We cannot use the ineffectiveness or alleged inefficiency of the Rules of Procedure as a justification for distorting it. No, because the Rules of Procedure must be the source of the guarantee for everyone here, not so much for those in the majority, but above all for those in the minority. The rules in a civil society serve to guarantee the weak. There is no need for a law or a rule for the strong, but for a law for the weak. This is the purpose with which the Regulations are written and in this spirit they must be followed to the letter, at most changed, but not distorted. It has also been said that amendments have been made specifically to contain within them something to vote with the secret vote, but together with something that had nothing to do with the secret vote. Maybe. We have not introduced such a kind, but it can be. However, it must be realized that an amendment is not always unscathed in the part that can be voted by secret vote and in the part that cannot be voted. When you take an egg, the red is not unbreakable if it does not break the entire casing, thus losing its integrity. So what I would like to say is that there are amendments which, by their very nature, cannot be reduced in this way because they are physiologically made in that way. It may therefore be that the secret vote takes something which, a priori, cannot be voted on in a secret way, but which cannot be separated from the other object. That is a fact and it must be accepted: we have seen the extreme attempt by a political group to do this. This brings me to the other question I wanted to raise: we waited two days to have a word from you. There could not be a second vote on the request for an amendment to be unpacked, albeit different. A question which has not yet been answered and on which I would ask you to give an opinion relates to a precedent which involved me personally. You once told me that I could not unpack a measure because one of the two parties had no regulatory scope. Then, when Senator Ghedini asked for the break-up, my question was precisely in this sense: the three parts in which she wanted to divide the amendment did not make sense because they were out of regulatory scope even at a lexical level. I would like to ask you this question again in order to be able to move forward peacefully: should not the Presidency first decide on the sensibleness of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure? That is our point of reference. If we cannot base ourselves on that or on the fact that the Presidency is speaking in advance, all our certainties will fall. If we cannot trust the Rules of Procedure, our calls to it always fall into the void. Therefore, after three days, I would ask you to give your opinion on this matter. And finally, we asked for the timing count and we didn't get an answer until we were told they were counted. As the time-count should not include speaking on a point of order, instead of accepting that a Group should tell us 30 minutes and another say ten minutes, I simply ask that the time available to us be taken into account, in order to be exactly as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, as established by the Conference of Leaders. In this way we would once again have legal certainty. You, Mr President, having been a magistrate, know that if there is no legal certainty you can't get anywhere. These are the three requests I make on behalf of the Group. And then I want to end with a non-controversial answer to Senator Ichino. Senator Ichino, there is no logic according to which it is possible to make inference on the result of a secret vote starting from the result of a clear vote. There is no logical path that allows it; therefore it is his opinion, but it is a wrong statement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u323	I thought that the sovereign assembly could overcome any decision of the President, but we will see that we are paying more attention to the unbundlings and giving the floor to this House when necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u324	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u326	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that in this extremely difficult climate, as you have done, Senator Crosio should be appreciated; but Senator Martelli has also made observations that are understandable from your point of view. But we must make the effort to bring us back to the reason for conduction, clearing the fogs that hang on this K2 of the Senate, as Senator Crosio recalled in his metaphor, and that after sixty years of history - a few days ago I participated with a protagonist of that story, which is now ninety years old and is of my city - have not yet been clarified. I wouldn't want us to spend 90 years clearing up the mist on the K2 we're climbing. We have dealt with 2,000 amendments. It is true that 1,000 have been dropped and some have been withdrawn, but many have been voted on and concern the essentials of the reform that we are facing. To ask, as we ask (and do not demand), to be able to vote in order to continue a discussion of merit on the problems, I believe it is the least that can be done in a constitutional body, in an Assembly that has decided by a very large majority, with common sharing (because it is written in our shared electoral programmes on this point), to overcome itself, the service of a more streamlined democracy, faster, more representative because the criterion of representation guaranteed by the House of Deputies and the principle of linking with the electorate only because we become primarily a Chamber of Regions. I really believe, and I say this with the same calmness and the same constructive spirit contained in the interventions of Senators Crosio and Martelli, that we all risk being delegitimized on a gray night when all cows are black, and we know that it is not true that all cows are black on this gray night. We risk being united to those who want to defend abstractly and concretely a system of power that in reality no longer holds, because the dress that institutions represent on our social body is no longer suitable to represent us at the important moments of the institutional life that we represent. Then I believe that it is in the right-duty of the conductor of this House, who risks playing in a distonic and wrong way, to have the rules available in order to conduct this concert, which we put at the service of the Italian people. I believe that no one has mortified anyone, and if it has happened it has been done in good faith. This morning, I felt forced in relation to the secret vote granted on Senator Candiani's amendment, because I - and I said this to the Leaders and I repeat this in front of all of you - felt that this amendment should be put aside to be voted on in Article 10, because that was its place and I believe that the President of the Senate should use the powers conferred on it by Article 102 (4) to regulate voting consistently with the result that we want to achieve. Another choice was made, but we did not believe that this choice was a violence against democracy. Then I believe that the positive tone that has been represented by a force of opposition, a rational and reasonable force because it has tabled only a hundred amendments (and also the 5 Star Movement has tabled only 200 amendments) must lead to rationality at least on this point our comparison. One last appeal I really do to the friends and comrades - if I may say so - of SEL, with whom, from very different positions, but certainly within a history of the Italian center-left very varied, very ambiguous and with many problems, we shared many battles and many moments of government, also of the local authorities and regions of the country. I would like to tell them that it is certainly not repeating twenty times the same thing that we solve the problem. So, to acknowledge to the President of the Senate the duty and the right to re-direct the votes - with the willingness to make its own to the end, as well as the letter, also the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, which is a constructive and guaranteed spirit (and has always been, it has been, even today, with regard to the choices we have made) - is not to recognize the power to someone, but to create the premises to be able to continue in respect of the opinions of all and the right rights of the minority, which must be able to assert its rights. But there is also the right of the majority to at least be able to continue and continue the path of reform. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u327	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u329	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I asked for the floor immediately on a complex and complex point of order. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u330	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u332	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I very much appreciated the spirit in which Senator Crosio began the evening work session. I interpreted it by grasping the positive aspects, with reference to K2, to an imposing and difficult climb, in which Italy was successful. This is not only a wish for us to find a good working method, but it is also a wish for the end to arrive where our fellow countrymen arrived sixty years ago. I believe, Mr President, that we must continue in our work of analysing the measure of constitutional reform and vote. Mr President, today we have had - as Senator Crosio said and he said the truth - a difficult day: on this difficult day, which we do not have to talk about now and do not want to talk about, we have unfortunately been unable to devote ourselves to our task, to the task for which we came to the Senate this morning and for which we have held back, that is to say to work on constitutional reform. I would ask you, Mr President, to restart the work as quickly as possible and to resume the vote on a reform which, as we know, is urgent. If we do so with the spirit and goal that Senator Crosio has indicated, namely that of success, I think we would do a good thing. Let's start doing this right away. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u333	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u335	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that we have listened to your words, and for us the misunderstanding about what we have read in the agencies is clarified. We never thought that you could send the police to the Senate: we are sure that there was no will for you to do so. We say this for the fact that we know his high sense of state: his history speaks to all of us and we had no doubt about it. Of course, we must say that today has been a difficult day. It has been written a bad, a very bad page on this day but - I say it to all of us - it does not record either winners or winners, both here and outside. The logic of the wall against the wall - which, alas, I understand, is not really a common will to dampen, because from the tones I have heard and from some speeches heard now, to the resumption of the work, we understand that instead there is still the will to continue with the wall against the wall - it has produced only rigidity, making the political and institutional reports very difficult and complicated and has made it difficult to manage this House. Mr President, we understand very well that it has been very difficult for you to manage this House. I would like to say, however, that after the extensive debate we had yesterday afternoon on the application of the Rules of Procedure, we also asked today, simply, for the application of the Rules of Procedure, because that was the only guarantee for all. We didn't find any answers to that, and we saw forcings. This has happened: we did not feel guaranteed, Mr President. For us, this is a page that we must overcome and, therefore, with a sense of responsibility, on behalf of SEL - but I think I am speaking on behalf of the whole of the Mixed Group - I believe that we must use these hours to resume the thread of a debate on the subject, to resume a civil thread of dialogue, because good constitutional reform is at the heart of everyone. Here there is no part that cares about reform and another part that does not care about it: here there are two different visions that confront each other, both with equal dignity, and both have the right to find a high point of synthesis. I therefore think that we need to regain clarity: today's day has been complicated and it would not be a tragedy if today's work had to end two hours earlier, in order to find again, Mr President, by taking up the call that you have made today for the opening of the work, that calm, that serenity and that tranquility, that will allow us to resume our work. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u336	I will give the floor to one speaker per group and to the group leaders to give an order. Senator Mario Mauro, your group leader has asked to intervene. [[Comments of Senator Mauro Mario]] I must give priority to the group leaders and then one speaker per group will be able to speak. We must also try to meet the needs of all those who want to resume the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u339	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for thirty seconds, and no more, of your attention. Too many words have been said and too many words have been shouted. It is not appropriate at this time to exegesis what has happened this afternoon, but I believe that it is absolutely necessary for legislators not to use the words expressed - in a high, corrosive or sharing tone - but to use those words which are written in the legislative measures. The word of the legislator is in the amendment, the word of the legislator is in a draft law which, as a result, are the only possibility through which each of us can express our own feeling and will. This feeling and this desire obviously pass through a democratic evaluation that generates as a result a vote that balances the relationship between the right of the majority and the right of the minority. I therefore conclude by welcoming with great approval the warning, the invitation, the exhortation made by Senator Crosio and say: why wait tomorrow, when the same mode of action and the same feeling can already be, yes, this, the word of this evening? We of the Per l'Italia Group believe that it is appropriate, in that climate of cooperation and healthy comparison, to continue the work. [[Applause from Group PI and Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u340	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u342	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, as usual, I fully agree with Senator Romano and thank you, on my own behalf and with my small Group, for the way in which an outcome under Rule 68 has been managed, allowing us to return to this House in a much more peaceful climate. In order to contribute to further calming not only the souls, but also the continuation of the work, I would formally make a request, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, where it is expressly stated that the President of the Senate may immediately submit to the Chamber the vote on the constitutional requirements denied by the 1st Commission. Since, however, as far as the prison decree is concerned, this is a vote that we should express, we could very well deal with it for the continuation of the evening, thus being able to work for greater calming, better meditating on the vote that we have to give on a much more important measure; not that the one on the prisons is not, but the vote on the presuppositions of constitutionality probably does not need that attention, that firmness and that punctuality that the continuation of the work needs for the approval of the reform of the Constitution. In this sense, I was speaking slowly because perhaps we need a better meditation from President Zanda and also a contribution from President Sacconi, although, President Grasso, you know that the inclusion on the agenda can be done by the President appreciated the circumstances and I believe that these are the circumstances that require it. Given the content of the speech by Senator Crosio, Senator Romano and mine, we could hear some other Parent Company in this regard; I do not see President Romani present here, but President Bruno and Senator Bernini are present, who can, if they believe, comfort the Presidency if the President considers it necessary (it is a prerogative of the President to decide on this). On the other hand, Mr President, it is 9.50 p.m. to work on the constitutionality conditions that requires a speech by the Group and therefore takes an hour and a half, a time that we should, however, devote to the same vote on the coming days. The day was difficult, complicated and very tense, communicated outside in a way probably different from what it really was. The request made by SEL's senators and the intervention made by Senator Crosio can, if this is combined with some expression from others, further and definitively comfort the Presidency. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u343	Thank you. Senators Zanda, Sacconi and Romano spoke to move forward. I ask Senator Bruno to give his opinion. [[Senator Tosato repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Tosato, let me finish. The question must be resolved if we are to interrupt the ongoing work on the agenda of the constitutional drafts or if tomorrow morning we start the proceedings of the House with the resolution on the opinion of the 1st Commission on the constitutionality of the decree-law on prisoners. Senator Bruno, I ask you if you can give your opinion briefly, since we have already obtained the opposite opinion of the other Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u344	Mr President, I attended the Conference of Group Leaders and therefore understood the position of the Groups and - as I have already said here - I believe that you, who have already taken responsibility for the conduct of this House and which you are responsible for, can have our vote in the manner you consider most appropriate, provided that the work is carried out in a situation of tranquillity and serenity, as it should be. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u346	Senator Tosato, I can finally give you the floor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u347	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we invite you to take seriously the proposal made by Senator Crosio. It is a proposal which I believe is final in relation to the positive outcome of the adoption of this measure. You have all the authority - and you must exercise it at last in this House - to make decisions that go beyond belongings, the majority and the wills of the majority, the opposition and above all the government! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella, Orellana and Mussini]] In fact, if we are in this situation, the greatest responsibility lies with the arrogance of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Mixed ILC Groups]] , which imposed on this Senate the road map to approve the reforms without discussing them on the merits, but exclusively because he had promised the nation that they should be approved by August 8. The contents have never been spoken of. From the government... Excuse me, do not interrupt me, Mr President, because many senators here have used half the time for your interruptions: this has been evident throughout the debate. I ask you to speak without being interrupted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government on some important issues has never responded. Can the election of senators take place through the appointment by them of other regional councillors or should it take place through the vote of the people? Should the number of elected Members be such that the balance of powers can be achieved? Can referendums be in the hands of citizens according to numbers that allow popular participation? This was the real debate; this was the debate we were interested in. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Zanda's answer, in response to Chiti's request, was: we offer you to finish in September. We don't care about the end of August 8th or September. As far as we are concerned, we can also finish tomorrow, if there is a clear response from the Government on these issues. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Mussini]] Mr President, the seriousness of this debate, in which - I repeat - we are hostages of the arrogance of the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, is also linked to another issue: we did not want to take note of what happened this morning in the secret vote. The outcome of today's secret vote, with the defeat of the government, clearly shows that the vote of many senators in this House is not free. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] It is conditioned by the fear of disobeying two political leaders, two party leaders, who have signed a secret pact that, if realized, will condition the democratic life of this country in the coming years! You, Mr President, have been complicit in this pact in these days with your decisions (or rather, with your obedience). [[Comments from the PD Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shut up! TOSATO (LN-Aut). This covenant wants to establish that power must belong to a few, and no longer to the people. We are fighting for the people to retain the right to vote for their representatives! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella]] Mr President, you have never mentioned this (and it is serious that you did not), but we do not defend ourselves, we defend the affirmation of this principle: sovereignty belongs to the people! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u348	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u349	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Excuse me, ma'am. This is a principle for which in democracy we cannot discount anyone. We in this House are defending the freedom of citizens! I would therefore urge you to use your authority and note that there is an incandescent climate in this House and that the only way to achieve the amendment of the Constitution is through a real confrontation, in which the Government does not impose its decisions, but confronts the Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups. Congratulations. Senator Colucci's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u350	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u351	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u352	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank you because I thought I had become invisible. [[Comments from the PD Group]] And yet - I am sorry - I believe that before me he has the right to say his colleague Mario Mauro [[Applause from the M5S Group:]] In fact, a few minutes ago you also listed the name of that colleague as a person entitled to speak. Since I have been taught that pacta servanda sunt, to me his words are, not sacred, but to be respected in this House, provided they are consistent. I therefore call for the floor to be given, as you yourself said, to Mr Mauro. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u353	Senator Mauro, you were one of the first to ask for the floor, but you were overtaken by the group leaders on the subject of plenary work. I therefore call on you to take action.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u354	Mr President, in fact, my proposal is a very simple and very practical proposal on the order of business, aimed at trying to overcome this impasse. In carrying out the task of constitutional reform, we are faced with two essential problems. One is about timing and the other is about content. We have tried, from the first day, on the basis of Mr Chiti's intervention - which I remind everyone - to combine both aspects. We have been stranded for a very simple reason: there seemed to be insufficient guarantees to allow the withdrawal of a large number of amendments which can be considered obstructive. I propose a way of achieving just how much Senator Chiti purposed. I draw the attention of friends of the Mixed Group of Left, Ecology and Freedom and of all senators. We proceed in this way: we organize the debate according to the principles inspired by Chiti, that is to say on matters, and instead of proposing to withdraw all the amendments once only (because perhaps we do not see sufficient guarantees), we proceed to the withdrawal of a large number of amendments day by day, once the subject has been exhausted, without any limitation; in this way we will get to the completion of the times, very early also compared to 8 August. It's a reasonable way. I would ask you all to put aside the preconceptions on the regulatory aspects - because if there is no political will it is clear that we are also clashing with the Rules of Procedure - and to understand, at the same time, that if we cannot enter into this matter we will find ourselves, on some other evening, in the conditions shown yesterday by Mr Azzollini. There are important issues that require competences that go beyond those already exhibited in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that need to be addressed. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: let us suspend the work now and, in the availability of a job that starts again in the dialogue between the Groups, let us address the key issues starting tomorrow, requiring us to remove the obstructive amendments day by day, after dealing with the subject of merit, because otherwise we will not come out of it anymore. [[Applause from the PI, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u355	Senator Mauro, you know that these proposals have already been made several times and unfortunately have not been successful. Let's hope for a new appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u356	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u357	You have the right to do so. Then I decide what to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u358	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that we should all, indeed, listen to the voice that has not come here, but it is the Italians who are outside and who are perhaps tired, desperate and resigned to observe a political and representative class that perhaps represents, now more than yesterday, only itself. Mr Manconi (PD). Speak for yourself. MORRA (M5S). And for this very reason I feel like reminding everyone, everyone, what I said just now: pacta servanda sunt. These days we have spent more time not voting, not examining, not reasoning, but waiting for the conclusion of the Conference of the Leaders or of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure! [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, President, I am addressing you because it represents the whole of the House: if one speaks - and this was said by a very modest teacher of philosophy and history to his students - he does so to be heard and heard by everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] If, on the contrary, we have to...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u359	It is now a widespread practice in this House, and you know that very well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u360	MORRA (M5S). Excuse me, but this is the full recognition of the fact that the institutions are dead, it causes disrespect on the part of those who should vivify them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, if we can't handle a debate here, how the hell do we expect to be normative? How can we indicate the way forward for our fellow citizens? Having said that, we have reached a particularly overheated climate because the great absentee, the one who should be sitting there, in front of me, has always had an attitude of absolute arrogance! And I choose well the words: arrogance, or, if you will, hubris, overcotanza, because it has no limit! In fact, gosh, it's not important to do things quickly, it's important to do things right knowing what to do! [[Live applause from the M5S Group.]] And the country is undergoing these reforms imposed and used as weapons of mass distraction. We are here to reason, in this House, and it is much more difficult when amendments to amendments have been withdrawn in the Commission because the rapporteurs and the Minister have called for withdrawal! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups]] But if there is no room for reason in this House because there is no listening, there is no attention, you must tell me, President, to whom we must speak! To ourselves? No. I really wish I could recover serenity [[Comments from the PD Group]] And Senator Crosio tried to resume the session to throw a doughnut at anyone who wanted to grab it. Then the debate showed that there is still no desire to take this doughnut because we in so many, I repeat, in so many, have no respect for the institutions. Let me take one last nail. The President-in-Office of the Council made a statement following the vote that took place this morning, but against that vote we fought a priori having presented on 13 September a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate by virtue of which we could always avoid the oxymoron that, in a democratic state, in Parliament we arrive at a secret vote, because Parliament is the place where we should not be afraid of blackmail and threats! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups.Protests from the PD Group.]] But if I even feel like morale...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u361	I acknowledge that the proposal has been submitted...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u362	MORRA (M5S). ...that has been lying since September 13th and, if it has not been scheduled, it is certainly not the fault of oppositions and minorities because it is a fight of majorities that coagulate each time on individual interests that determines what is done here! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But let me finish. Mr Manconi (PD). Alea iacta est! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. MORRA (M5S). I add, because even on small details we play the credibility of an institution, that we are all here to dialogue, no matter how difficult it is, to listen to us, no matter how challenging it is, but there is nothing really more irritating than to ask for the word and remain invisible. I ask you, but also the Secretaries, whoever they are at the moment, to exercise as much control as possible because, if Senator Candiani had been allowed to speak today when he asked for it, we would have avoided all this work. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Minzolini.]] It's funny to say, if I can close with a joke, that when we all go in here we should undergo a neurological medical examination: maybe not neurological, but ophthalmological, yes. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Casaletto.]] SACCONI (NCD). (Ironic). We're gonna get two for the group. No, three for Group! No, four per group!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u363	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u364	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u365	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, please do. The sitting can continue quietly. Please let us start voting again. Please let us work for what you called us here for. Let us vote because that is our duty. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Di Biagio and Susta. Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] We want to do our duty. I ask you calmly, Mr President, but let us do so. All the Leaders have spoken. You now have the clear will of the Groups. Please let us vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u366	Let us now begin to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u367	I'd like to hear Senator De Petris on Senator Mario Mauro's proposal first.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u368	Mr President, we have been very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u369	Briefly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u370	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Briefly. We heard Senator Crosio. We have made an invitation to try to recover a climate of serenity, and we have therefore fully accepted the proposal to close the sitting here, as Senator Crosio had asked and proposed, in order to seek everyone on tomorrow's day to find a climate of serenity because, Mr President, it is clear to everyone that we cannot go on with constitutional reforms under these conditions. Mr President, we have heard some answers that have once again stirred up our minds. We pretend that we have not heard them and once again renew the proposal to close the sitting here this evening, so that tomorrow we can really organize our work in a different, more serene way and enter into the substance. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u371	Colleagues, since the timetable and its timing, as everyone knows, are decided by the Conference of Leaders, we cannot interrupt the work of a constitutional body that has rules, rules that have been widely applied and that have given a timetable and an order. We wanted to give everyone the opportunity to express themselves at this moment, which had lost that serenity that must be the lighthouse in order to be able to continue on constitutional reform. I therefore invite you, without losing the serenity that we have found, albeit laboriously, to resume the agenda for which we have been convened and for which since this morning we are all - I repeat - here, so as not to disperse the activity that we can carry out having a timetable that provides for the end of the sitting at 24. We have the votes we can make and then, tomorrow morning, we will vote on the constitutional requirements as proposed by Senator Mario Ferrara [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u372	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u373	Senator Volpi, you have the floor, but please, briefly because we have to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u374	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I have been trying to speak since today, and I will be very brief. Mr President, I think there has been a very serious mistake: Senator Crosio has put an olive branch in front of everyone and you have spit on it. Mr President, the views of the President-in-Office of the Council with regard to all of you - and you should say something - are that when we voted with the secret vote we became hooded constitutionalists. That is the view of the President-in-Office of the Council of this House! After that, we have become accustomed: the order of the prince comes, some vassal more or less irrelevant says that everything is okay... [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). You'll be the vassal! Mr Manconi (PD). Valvassino! VOLPI (LN-Aut). Colleagues, are you doing a force test? Accept it! Excuse us! Do you want to do muscle? Do the muscle! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] That is the democracy of the Democratic Party, Mr President. They're proving exactly what they are. You're proving exactly what you are! I would like to remind my fellow Members that I do not insult anyone: I quote the words of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u375	Senator Volpi, but we don't make any references. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u376	VOLPI (LN-Aut). But must I refer to what, Mr President? You violated all the rules! We said: make peace, you said no! So it goes on just like today! You've closed the truce! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You vote for this! (Senator Candiani stirs up the file of amendments). Chorus of words from the LN-Aut and M5S groups. Freedom! Freedom!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u377	Let us start with Amendment 1.0.23. Chorus of words from the LN-Aut and M5S groups. Freedom! Freedom! [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group raise signs bearing the writings: "The vote belongs to the people" "What is the currency of exchange?" "Grasso" & "Renzi robbers of democracy" "Grasso" as referee Moreno" "Grasso." The Senators of the M5S Group accompany the choir by beating the tome of the amendments on the bench.]] Assistants pull the signs, please. Chorus of words from the LN-Aut and M5S groups. Freedom! Freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, also because there is enough public, that you want to become sacrificial victims; if you want this, it is possible... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, do not instigate. We resume our work because the constitutional body you represent must continue. Then, if there is the serenity that we had conquered, it must lead us to move forward in the votes. If anyone wants to sacrifice himself, for Christ's sake. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] We're not getting to this, please. We shall therefore resume the vote on Amendment 1.0.23. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group start playing whistles.) I'm begging Senators Quaestors and Assistants to step in. [[Parliamentary assistants carry out the order given by the President and go to the benches of the LN-Aut Group trying to remove the whistles.]] Senator Centinario, you're the leader. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group continue to play the whistle.) Since you certainly don't leave the house with a whistle, it was all prepared, you had arranged the whole thing. (Some Senators from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups put the tome of the amendments on the table.) I guarantee that the work of the House must continue. This gazzar has to stop! CORI FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Get out! [[Ironic applause from the PD Group. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group re-expose the signs bearing the words: "The vote belongs to the people" "Grasso" and "Renzi robbers of democracy" "Which is the commodity of exchange" "Grasso" as the referee Moreno" "Grasso."]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is The signs must be removed. This is the show you're giving, and it's right for citizens to see it. I do not suspend the session: I want everyone to see. (Senator Scilipoti approaches and speaks to the President.) I'm told someone got hurt. You will also be responsible for this. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 22.17 a.m. and resumed at 23.16 a.m.) The session is resumed. I wanted to follow the care that was given to the senators who injured themselves. I want to inform you that Senator Bianconi suffered blunt trauma to the right elbow and was accompanied to the hospital to perform X-rays that will confirm it. Let's hope he doesn't have any fractures. [[Applause.]] The Senator Council has had a sickness and is currently still in the infirmary with vital parameters in the normal: pulse, pressure, heart rate, peripheral saturation. It is shiny and well oriented. He also made me a joke: "I'm as fat as she is"; it means she's fine. [[Applause.]] It is lucid, well oriented, has no neurological disorders at the moment. He performed an electrocardiogram with normal outcome and cardiac enzymes with normal outcome. He is, however, still under observation. What has happened in this House, let me tell you, is a very serious fact. It is a dramatic blow to the credibility of the Senate of the Republic. Every senator, whatever his political affiliation, whatever his position and whatever ideological position he has taken in this debate, must understand that when colleagues are prevented from participating in democratic life because they are affected or physically wounded, as has been the case in this House, it strikes not only the freedom of everyone, but also the morals, the ethics that must be the basis of our function. I think that in democracy, in our Parliament, none of these behaviors can be allowed for this reason, so I strongly condemn what has happened. I say that the Presidency Council will meet immediately, immediately, to take all the measures and impose the right sanctions for what has happened. The sitting of this House is postponed until tomorrow and the constitutional reforms that were on the agenda today, which have been interrupted, will resume. I am sorry for what has happened today, and we will continue to follow the health conditions of the sick. It was a bad page that we recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u378	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-296.ana.u379	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, August 1, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.20 a.m.
