ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u4	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I only take a few seconds to express - on behalf of my Group, but I think I can also speak on behalf of the whole House - to the various populations affected by the bad weather emergency that is affecting all of Italy, solidarity with what is happening to them. I think that everyone knows the problem, because it is very important, since all Italy is affected - I repeat - but I would like to inform the House that in Padua, in particular, yesterday there was also a dead man, there are entire countries under water and in Belluno snowfalls are extremely dangerous because the rise in the temperature that is taking place could cause in the next hours a further increase in the level of rivers. We therefore ask very clearly, as the Veneto Region has done, that the state of disaster be declared and that the necessary resources be made available to intervene in this moment of extreme gravity and urgency in the territory. I remember the problem that all administrations and our municipalities always have when emergency states such as this occur: that they have to face expenses that then have to fall on the Stability Pact for local authorities. We therefore urgently call for a government measure to this end. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u5	The Presidency obviously supports both concern and solidarity for what has happened. These events inevitably have a financial impact both on the Regions and on the entire State, because the issue concerns the whole Italian territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u8	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to join in the speech by my previous colleague, to highlight not only the national significance of the "maltempo" emergency, but also - let me say this - the particular dramatic situation in Emilia-Romagna, especially in the Apennines area, which has been traversed by increasingly disruptive landslides, which attack the inhabitants, causing their displacement. I would also like to add an invitation to the Government to take immediate and urgent measures, through the recognition of the state of disaster, but also through the intervention on the Stability Pact and extraordinary funding, because we are faced with situations that must be attacked immediately: we must find measures that help to avoid isolation and its known consequences, both on industry and on the inhabitants, who often find themselves in dramatic situations, including displacement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u9	The Presidency will consider whether to ask the Government to come and report on the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u12	MOLINARI (M5S). Madam President, I am obliged to intervene just to make it clear that Italy is one and that my land, Calabria, has also been the subject of these disturbances. Being an abandoned land for a long time, this is a cry that we send to the Government and the country: yesterday we talked about the growth relative to the garbage, but there is another one that should focus the activity of the Government, that is the growth of the protection and care of the territory. I ask that the government begin to really think about these issues, without siphoning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u15	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to draw Members' attention to one point: we obviously need great solidarity and understanding for the inconveniences and difficulties that arise throughout Italy from the bad weather and the floods of the rivers, but I ask the Government, above all, not to confuse the discomfort with the tragedy. In Modena we had the earthquake and today, in the same areas that it had destroyed, a flood massacred companies and families, which no longer have anything, after having been doubly affected. At a time when emergency interventions are being asked of the government - and I address my colleagues - I believe that the whole Senate must have the intelligence to calibrate them on the basis of the real needs and needs, compared to what really happened on the territory. I agree that from Calabria to Trentino there are problems of stability of the territory of hydrogeological order, and I know the situation of our mountain, with all the difficulties resulting from urbanization and the famous problems upstream: but today there are emergencies on which I ask the Government to reflect, because some populations are experiencing really dramatic, terrible and tragic situations, that need immediate intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1275, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in the Campania Region, in the so-called Land of Fires, obliges us to have a prompt response which unfortunately follows decades of lazy and supino suffering from all the articulations of society: institutions, public bodies and citizenship included, with the exception of active minorities that unfortunately have not become over the years a sufficient critical mass able to change a situation of environmental degradation that every day more pushed Campania towards disaster. Decades in which the organized underworld has paid huge sums, endangering the economy of an entire region, causing incalculable damage to the image of a centuries-old tradition in the agro-food field, hitting a production capacity among the best in the world. But it has been done above all at the expense of people' s health: the escalation of cancers and malformations, of all those diseases that find their etiology or cause environmental degradation and contaminated food is the tragic consequence of all this. Well, the decree on environmental emergencies we are dealing with today is an important sign, it is an assumption of responsibility, and it is important because it affirms a fundamental principle that environmental protection is a matter to be dealt with in close union with the fight against crime and cannot ignore the active involvement of all citizens, each for its role and responsibility. Today's decree, therefore, although it is improved or perfectable, as has been said in this House several times, is a positive element in this panorama because it nevertheless offers convincing answers on three orders of factors. First of all, it acts on the economic front, providing for the mapping of agricultural land in order to ascertain the presence of contaminations, their recognizability through appropriate perimeters and subsequent interventions of reclamation of land and aquifers, as well as the economic revitalization of the territories. In doing so, the government shows that it wants to take on the burden of restoring a disastrous environmental situation which has a very serious impact on the economy. We would also like to point out in positive terms the provision that the amounts of money and resources confiscated following final judgment in criminal proceedings for the illicit trafficking of waste or association with criminal offences are allocated to the environmental rehabilitation of polluted sites. Secondly, the measure deals with health. We cannot accept the importance of mass screening for the population living in the municipalities of Campania affected by the pollution provided for in Article 2, as well as the specification that health examinations will be carried out by citizens without any sharing in the expenditure, expenditure that the decree sets for health control activities in Campania and Taranto in 25 million euros. Finally, new types of crime have been included on the legal front and the penalties for environmental crimes have been tightened; new instruments have also been introduced to target more and better crime. The crime of illicit burning of waste has been introduced, with a penalty forecast ranging from two to five years of imprisonment, as well as the confiscation of the means of transport of the waste and the areas where the crime was committed. Highlighting all these positive elements in the decree under consideration, we certainly cannot fail to urge the Government to let Campania, as well as other regions of Italy, come out of the emergency. We must do everything to ensure that the regions implement waste plans that are truly adequate and effective, that look at all the European environmental objectives for the achievement of which our country has committed itself. With regard to the problem of hydrogeological failure, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to say that unfortunately we are always at the same point. We cannot go after emergencies, but it is necessary that the state, for once, is concerned about prevention, trying to prevent certain things from happening. For charity, disasters will always be there, they are part of man's history; however, many things are predictable and, therefore, avoidable. Pollution in Campania was predictable and avoidable, as in all Italy. We need to adopt remedies first and do prevention first, including by ensuring that the regions apply environmental protection projects. It is necessary for the regions to make separate collections and to prepare their structures. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] As long as the government does not commit itself to the realization of separate collection facilities with empire, pollution will always be there. The same applies to hydrogeological failure: until serious prevention plans are made, we will always put in pieces and spend much more on the realization of bad things. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Crosio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u20	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, today's measure represents an act of institutional responsibility in the face of a complex phenomenon and deserving of attention, which unfortunately has been waiting too long to be addressed as a problem and as an emergency, cultural and social, even before environmental. The measure, especially in the light of the improvement of the House, is an effective tool for intervention and management, with particular attention to aspects related to the prevention and health of citizens. We cannot, however, fail to ask ourselves a question: why have we only arrived at this point in time, with an urgent measure, which, among other things, has not even given us time for further discussion at second reading? This is an emergency that has been afflicting the Campania Region for years, about which institutional initiatives have not been lacking, as well as social and political; however, it is only in December 2013 to launch a measure with specific lines of intervention. This makes people think and feel very bitter, because behind this drama there is the life of so many people, as well as an economy on its knees. In the face of all this, more than with emergency interventions, it would have been appropriate to proceed, in the past, with systematic interventions of medium to long term. Surely the definition of intervention plans, as outlined in the first articles of the decree, represents a necessity in the light of the serious situation that currently conditions the Campania area, but leaves uncovered some areas, so to speak of shadow, such as the condition in which a good portion of the civil society of Campania is placed and the deep sense of insecurity that characterizes their daily life; the unbelief before a State that has struggled to outline a plan of intervention; the sense of abandonment and detachment with respect to the institutions; the showy and dramatic breakdown between two sides of the social life of the country. It is perhaps also taking into account these aspects that it is necessary to frame the involvement of the Armed Forces as garrison of the territory. The intervention of the latter, although it is necessary, is unfortunately a legitimization of insecurity for citizenship, capable of renewing the character of extraordinaryness as well as of concern that affects those countries and those lands. The adoption of a rapporteur's agenda in the Commission, which envisages limiting the intervention of the armed forces as a garrison of the territory to the year 2014, is undoubtedly a good mediation. There are, of course, other aspects to be examined, which concern the scope of the practical application of the measure and the dynamics of the productive conversion of those lands. The measure under consideration, in article 1, paragraph 6, provides that, having concluded the mapping activities of potentially contaminated land, two separate ministerial decrees are issued (I stress), which will place among the requirements indication of the land of the Campania Region that cannot be destined for agri-food production, but exclusively for different crops. The diversity of crops has been foreseen to be indicated in view of the phytopurative capacities of the crops. But we are well aware that the remodulation of land production is a particularly important aspect in view of the fact that the productive potential of these lands and the economic future of the land's producers and workers are closely bound to them. It would therefore be desirable to review the case of crop diversity, including those of an energy nature, which can be used - as a result of proper processing - as vegetable biomass for the production of electricity, through specific plants installed in the same territory. In view of the economic revaluation of those lands, it could be possible to grow energy crops from farmers, owners and non-owners, of the land covered by the interventions, also possibly through the establishment of cooperatives and consortia on a local basis, legitimizing a sort of short agro-energy supply chain, considering that appropriate cooperation programmes on the installation and management of plants could be defined. The measure in question leads to further reflection on a regulatory gap that characterizes our legal system in the matter of environmental damage. Given that the measure, among other things, provides for the identification and enhancement of measures to prevent environmental damage and environmental nuisance, it can be said that important steps are being taken on this front and that progress must be made on this path. It would be desirable, also in the light of other measures under consideration in this Parliament, for the instruments for combating harmful environmental behaviour to be systematically reorganised and for the illicit practices to be carried out in this area. Therefore, in this perspective, the provision could be framed as a sort of reminder for an orderly evolution. That is what we are asking you, Minister and Secretary of State. We cannot neglect what could be the risks arising from the physiological timing of application of the measures covered by the measure. Many citizens of those territories have not missed the fact that in some areas - so-called criticism - economic realities are paradoxically emerging such as, for example, agritourisms. The serious risk is that in the blackberries of complete mapping and preparation of reports and subsequent decrees, it is difficult to curb any economic speculation on land at risk. This aspect, which is also the subject of an agenda of mine, is intended to make a further call to local administrators, city committees and all those who work on the ground and live their daily lives. An invitation to pay attention and to denounce those who try to bypass the measures - however stringent - of this decree. And that is a significant aspect, to which I referred earlier. The connection between interventions and the involvement of territorial realities, although addressed by this decree, is not particularly detailed and legitimate. It would be essential to focus on the cultural emancipation of that Region, on the awareness of the damage, on the mistrust and the distance to those who created this abomination, on the awareness and involvement of civil society in projects that we could define as cultural, social and environmental rehabilitation, which cannot be freed from emerging initiatives such as today under consideration. This is precisely in order - as I said earlier - to recover that fault created between State and citizenship, nourished for years, for decades, of abandonment: we are talking about abandonment and the devastation of the territories of the Caserta and Neapolitan are unfortunately the tangible proof. We could have corrected or revised a few points, but the sense of responsibility towards that piece of Italy lies far beyond these aspects and represents our unquestionable priority. Urgent interventions that see the participation of all and that also give clarity, not only to the inhabitants of the territory but to Italy as a whole, are measures that could not be further postponed and we are perfectly aware of this. It is with this shared awareness that I hope - also making sure - that the management of the emergency of the Land of Fires does not end today or with the conversion into law of the decree under consideration: it will be articulated in further interventions, in constant confrontations between Parliament and the bodies responsible for control and through that path of cultural rehabilitation to which I referred earlier. Only in this way will we be able to recover lost time and restore the order of our country's operational priorities. [[Applause from the PI and SCPI groups and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u22	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u23	Madam President, once again we must record the incontrovertible fact that the use of urgent decrees has become almost a consolidated legal practice. This general consideration deserves much more careful reflection and, in my opinion, criticism of this alternative system of legislative production, because it is presenting itself as a real institutional force, which perhaps too often crosses the limits of the separation of powers as we know them, which is one of the fundamental cornerstones of the rule of law, and degrades the role of this prestigious Assembly. However, the importance and, in fact, the urgency (and the state of necessity underlying it) probably justify the appeal in this case. I had the opportunity to confront the people of those lands affected by the measure in question and read in their eyes the terror, fear, uncertainty and resignation that was generated by the impotence of not being able to guarantee their children a safe future for their health and for their physical safety. From the accounts that came out of the judicial investigations, an unimaginable and bleak picture appeared immediately to all. What was historically called Campania Felix has become a land devastated by the ecocomaphies. What today could have been the agro-food pride of the whole Mezzogiorno of Italy has become a land whose products must be subjected to the shame and infamy of the distrust, with all the harmful consequences for the economy, for the entrepreneurs and for the workers of those places. This cannot continue and must no longer happen. Well, this measure moves in that direction and must have the support of those who really care about the huge problem that is being discussed. I believe that appropriate regulation, aimed at ensuring an efficient mapping/monitoring, through appropriate technical investigations carried out by the competent bodies for this purpose, of the land of the Campania Region intended for agriculture, aimed at ascertaining the possible existence of contaminating effects on the soil, caused by spills and illegal killing, constitutes a first decisive step, albeit minimal, in anticipation of the future and improcrastinable activity of soil reclamation, in order to demonstrate to that population that the institutions of this country have not abandoned it and that they are working to address the situation and reach a comprehensive resolution of the problem. [[Applause from the Mixed Group-GAPp.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u25	Madam President, in the approach to environmental and hydro-geological emergencies, which constitute the backbone of the decree-law in conversion, we cannot fail to highlight and highlight how long it is waiting for the populations concerned - but it can seriously be said to the whole national community, the paradigm of the entire population of the European Union - for a number of reasons. Firstly, people need to perceive the actual government and Parliament's action on environmental emergencies and individual and collective health. Secondly, Parliament, in the two legislative expressions of the Chamber and Senate, constituting the sounding board of the confused debate in the country, can put order to the voices, can build disciplinary scaffolding, can regulate that noise that comes from the lows, from the subtleties of the nation, that to an extraterrestrial visitor would deliver an apocalyptic scene of despair, disorder, inerts and imbecile in the face of epochal emergencies to which we would not be able to react and cope. This is what the scientific community, the so-called street people, the housewife of Voghera and Taranto, the unemployed of the Land of fires and the young students of Italy who have lost the horizon, who do not see the solution and look to the political class and the ruling class as the last beach and last hope to reverse the descent to the underworld. Cinema and contemporary literature, senators and senators, are in recent years supplementing the vacacy of social redemption, the flight from our responsibilities, with masterpieces of witty expressiveness, of learned imagination, of artistic visual and sensory communication. It is the men and women of the countries and peripheries that are martyred and contaminated, of the cities from which they flee, in fact, to represent the synedoch of the paradox of progress and the dishonest price that we pay for development. It is the elderly and the children of Italy who look to us, who must, even if we can, from the films of a film on the eco-aphies and from the pages of a journalistic survey on Italian disasters: they observe and question us. The country owes them answers. And from Parliament it can, indeed, reach our people, citizens and citizens, administrators, justice workers, law enforcement agencies, health professionals, the world of school and business, a unique message of compactness: we can get out of the emergency, we can proceed with the Bonifice and we can produce it in an environmentally friendly way. Apulian citizens will finally understand that health and work are not mutual blackmail, but an opportunity. The bell towers will have to know that the ground they trample on will be again a territory for the use of human activities in the noblest sense of the term. The banks of the rivers and streams, which today overwhelm tragedies, can still become a serene and reassuring scenario of a humanity aware of its own responsibilities and destinies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Cuomo. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u26	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, not only does it not solve many problems, but it creates expectations for the people of Campania, which are completely unfounded. The first thing that needs to be clarified is that there is a need to address an absolute priority, which is to get Campania out of the waste emergency regime. For twenty years now there has been a series of extraordinary interventions in this region that, as such, have buffered the various emergencies that have been expected on the territory; but lacking a complete resolve plan for the treatment of waste, their screening and their definitive disposal, these decrees have only turned out to be hot cloths. Before the demagogy of ecologicalism repeats this denial against the disposal plants, invoking the presence of this or that polluting agent in various ways, it is good to say in this House that Campania must be equipped with a series of plants, planned by the Region since the time of Governor Bassolino and remained on paper if not for the waste-to-energy plant that was, at the time, placed by the Berlusconi Government with an emergency and emergency intervention in the city of Acerra. In Campania there are about 6 million ecoballs that are nothing more than "tal" which is screened and dried and if we were to dispose of them in the only system enabled to do so, it would take about fifty years. Therefore, to present decrees here to address this problem is like bringing aspirin to a sick person suffering from a very serious disease. In this decree there is very little funding; we are talking about 20-25 million euros to be divided between Campania and Puglia or other types of intervention that are certainly able to alleviate, in some way and in some form, the problem. In Campania, however, the real problem is to give life and implementation to the waste plan, the integrated cycle and the complete realization of waste-to-energy. If in here we want to make ecologists all round and imitate Lavoisier in the sense that nothing is created and nothing is destroyed, but everything is transformed, we in Campania will continue to be in emergency conditions for the next twenty years. It is really curious to continue to fight against the ecocomaphies, which then manage the landfills, and to procrastinate the permits for twenty years, with decrees of urgency of the prefect, so that the final result of the waste is poured into these landfills. If the volcano is to seem progressive as ecologists, as a biologist, and not as a sudden one, I tell you that the landfills with their leachate are polluting the aquifers much more than the undergrounds of toxic and harmful material that in many cases are fantomatic. In Campania we follow the revelations of a repentant of Camorra, Francesco Schiavone, who, among other things, repented twenty years ago; we do not understand then why in twenty years this problem has not been addressed. Moreover, even if we wanted to listen to him, not one of the sites he indicated gave a positive feedback. So we chase the emergency, we chase the hearsay and there is no worse learning than what comes from the hearsay. In this measure we talk about soil mapping. Well, you must know that the Ministry of the Interior, back in 2006, using 50 million from European funds, commissioned the Carabinieri's weapon and the CNR to carry out soil mapping. This mapping was made. Why do we want to make another one? They tell us why we have to waste time investigating what we already know. The reason is very simple: because this sad Region comes to the fore only for emergencies. In this sad Region, bassolinism has accustomed us to the perpetual and continuous emergency. The Italian State has already invested in Campania, for the issue of waste, several hundred million euros. Do you know what the answer was? Create consortia in which 2,000-3,000 socially useful workers have been infiltrated, on direct call: real customers of bassolinism! That's the truth. Minister Orlando... I think Nitti said that starting with a gerund is always a mistake; one named Orlando will probably make these mistakes. What does Minister Orlando do? It comes to give us yet another handful to tacitize the fact that we are burning waste on the territory and that from this combustion come out a series of harmful toxic substances. Excuse me, but who puts these garbage, who scatters it on the territory, but the populations of those municipalities that can't dispose of the garbage? So the Land of Fires is above all an expression of civilization of those populations; it is an expression of the lack of a waste disposal plan, which lies in the drawers of Palazzo Santa Lucia unused. So what do we want to approve this morning? Another measure, yet another scientific committee. I read here about ARPAC: I want you to understand how this wheelchair works. On the other hand, the distinctive feature of stateism is making carriages: more functions, more officials, colleges of experts. In the Monti quarry of a village in the Province of Caserta, called Maddaloni, a courageous mayor named Antonio Cerreto, a few years ago because smokes came out...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u28	You should finish, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u29	D'ANNA (GAL). I shall conclude, Madam President. Let me at least say one thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's said a lot. D'ANNA (GAL). ...he decided to investigate the surrounding land, banning grazing and transit. ARPAC made good reliefs and found nothing, except a few days ago to find toxic waste buried in the same place where those reliefs were made. Ladies and gentlemen, you can then vote for or against; I too am in favour of these provisions, but they will not change anything. We're throwing more time and more money into the wind. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN‐Aut groups and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u30	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u31	Madam President, I should like to say at once that we feel - as is often the case in this parliamentary term - a certain discomfort, because this morning and these days we are discussing a very important decree, but once again we are talking about two subjects that we believe would have been better distinguished: the story of the Land of Fires, on the one hand, and that of Ilva, on the other. I would just like to say on Ilva that this is yet another intervention, which I think is the fifth one, which is being proposed. However, we continue to have the feeling that these interventions actually lead to a real loosening of the environmental requirements of the AIA and, therefore, we look at them with some concern. Instead, we stress a more positive element on the part of the measure that concerns the so-called Land of fires because, while retaining some elements of distinction and dissent (of which I will shortly speak), we recognize that at least one step is taken after many years of real political indifference compared to what was happening in Campania. Some of my colleagues have already spoken about this, but I will also speak about it. Of course, we would have liked a few more elements within this measure. For example, we believe that the time for mapping, for starting the reclamation, is too short; this will determine the fact that only previous data can be used. On the other hand, another methodology would have been needed, for example with a programme of direct investigations (as we asked for). Madam President, we also note another problem (which I hope you can handle) which is becoming quite commonplace in the Senate. It is about the fact that we come to our examination of decrees which are essentially due to expire; therefore, there is no time to start a real political debate and the amendments themselves have difficulty in being highlighted. This situation is a bit paradoxical, also because it was the Senate of the Republic that, over the last few months, had a focus on the theme of the Land of Fires: for example, in addition to holding a series of hearings, a delegation from the 13th Standing Committee, whose members were able to see with their own eyes what is happening. In any case, apart from these elements, we want to make the most of the positive aspects of the decree. We want to do this first because we think that the measure under consideration exists, and there is finally a policy intervention regarding the issue of the Land of Fires, because in Campania, on the territory, over the last few months a civil and social mobilization has finally been produced. This seems to us to be a very important political fact, not simply for what happened. I remember that the Campania Region has been crossed by large demonstrations against biocidal products, which have denounced what is happening in my land. These great events took on a beautiful name because they decided to call themselves "Fiume in full." They have been called in this way because, over the last few years, there have been many struggles on this ground that have denounced what was happening in relation to waste, incinerators and landfills; they have been very difficult struggles, often isolated, that some of us have conducted in total loneliness, such as, for example, years ago, when we tried to counter the project, at the wrong time, of the Acerra incinerator. Well, all these struggles have been - as it were - small tributaries, small streams, flowing into the river in the midst of today's mobilization. We believe that this mobilization is particularly important, also because we really think that, after the damage, there can be no mockery. No one thinks that, now that the financial resources - few - have been allocated to the reclamations and that national policy finally deals with the issue, our land can be reclaimed by those same companies that have been collusion over all these years and that are also responsible for the disaster of the territory. Today we have a great role to play: to avoid this happening and to have to ensure, vice versa, public control over the Bonifice. From this point of view, we believe that it is essential that we continue to compare with associations and movements, with those who have made this issue a major issue of national politics. We also believe it is essential that, through our work in the Chamber of Deputies and here, in the Senate of the Republic, it has been obtained that the races be carried out with public evidence. This obviously seems to us to be a positive result. Of course, as well as clearing up the earth, trying to depollute it, controlling the reclamations, preventing those who have polluted from even lucading over the disaster that they have done, we have another equally important task: to avoid any form of psychosis. It is not true that Campania is all polluted: there is a piece of territory that has been polluted, but there is also another large part of the Campanian land that, fortunately, lives in a better condition. It is absolutely essential to intervene on this because the psychosis that can be created on a topic like that of the Land of Fires can result in a real collapse of the economy in our territory. I therefore think it will be absolutely important to try to be very careful about what is happening. In order to avoid psychosis, too, it is necessary to intervene strongly, for example, on the establishment of the cancer register, alongside health screening; transparency must be introduced. It was well done by the President of the Boldrini Chamber, some time ago, to descret the acts that had been kept hidden for many years, even if in reality for a large part their content was well known because it was contained in the documents of processes such as "Spartacus", as we have said so many times. We must also note the fact that once again a real tragedy has been experienced in Campania over the course of these years. A drama that had a material executor, that was precisely that collusive world, even camorrist who made money and intervened on this matter, but also a sender, Madam President. That handler was precisely that certain colonialism of the North-Italy robbery that used the South as a trash can, which used Campania as a dump. I believe that today we need to get the complaint out of the way of what has happened. I should like to conclude with three points. The first one. The Commissioner's solution cannot be an eternal solution. The second. We must avoid intervening once again in pursuit of the emergency, but we must imagine structural elements; from this point of view I want to announce our disagreement with the hypothesis of building the incinerator in Giugliano in Campania to dispose of the so-called ecoballs. The third concerns the army. We have expressed doubts about this. Today the presence of the Forces of order can serve only if it is a short and narrow presence; other in Campania it does not serve. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I shall conclude, Mr President. The Sicilian writer Gesualdo Bufalino said that to defeat the Mafia more than the Army needed the army of the elementary masters. In the same way I think that in Campania to restore the land more than the Army needs an army of biologists, geologists, agronomists, those who care for the territory. Well, we'd love this army. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u32	I address a greeting to the students of the Institute including the Purified Sunday of Rome, today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, although it relates to two emergencies (that of the land of fires and that of Ilva), has a general character, since it is the first time that Parliament has taken such an organic and specific action, although mainly limited to specific territories. Studies also carried out by the Higher Institute of Health have shown that contamination of water and land, caused by illegal underground waste, is a concrete and measurable problem and that the health status of the Campanian population is worse than the rest of Italy because it has a higher mortality than the national average, with tips of 29 percent in some municipalities. Very well, then, to affirm the principle (but it will then be necessary to follow) of the need for a screening of the population, and to intensify by all means the repressive interventions. The consequences for human health of the criminal or reckless management of waste have been dealt with in other studies since 2009, also carried out in collaboration with the World Health Organisation. This research has shown a likely link between mortality and waste, particularly in relation to illegal waste discharges. Let us finally take note of this, even if it has unfortunately taken the explosion of yet another emergency to start taking this matter seriously. The criminal practice of disposing or recycling waste by burning it has been going on for too long; it has been documented over and over again. Now we finally intervene significantly, but we need to know that it is not enough, because good reasons suggest that this practice is much more widespread than we think. It is therefore necessary to revise the regulatory framework by harmonising it. It is necessary to monitor the whole national territory seriously, starting with the stated situations, and to put on the net what exists to heal and strike firmly criminal behaviors, but above all to prevent. We must give a strong signal: to recognise this problem as a national priority which concerns the health of citizens, but which is also a real issue of civilisation. A few days ago, reports of the discovery of some illegal landfills have come to light, also due to the indirect effects of recent floods: discoveries made in unexpected places such as Liguria; but many, many are the situations reported for some time by individuals, associations or committees of citizens: different situations due to gravity and priority of intervention. In the Health Committee we have expressed a positive opinion on the draft law, but with some recommendations for action to address the emergency, while aiming at overcoming it. I only denounce some of the additional measures required, such as those aimed at planning health prevention according to the epidemiological geolocation for microareas on the basis of the identification of diseases with the highest incidence of cancer and, as regards congenital defects, with greater prevalence at birth or total prevalence; to distribute health resources according to health weight factors, with particular emphasis on working conditions, mortality, disease and average life expectancy at birth; to ensure the exemption from health tickets for residents in areas with illegal spills of toxic waste and with a higher incidence of cancer disease; to start a national monitoring of the situation from a network perspective of skills: environmental, health, legal and economic and with an open comparison with the territories and their institutional, civil and associative representations; to urge the implementation of the Registry of tumors throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u36	Madam President, I would like to begin my speech, which will take a few minutes, by saying that I have the utmost respect for the institutions of our country; however, if I had already known for about twenty years what was happening in the Campania region, I certainly would not have signed the decree-law that we are discussing today. Beyond that, which is nevertheless a very important fact - as far as I am concerned - I believe that this decree absolutely does not solve the problems, or rather the fantastic problems of the Campania Region. I define them as phantoms to the extent that the mapping data of the areas in question are already widely known. I do not understand, Mr President, the urgency of this decree or its object, which, in drawing up the title of the measure, is very vague and random, and remains so also within it, in the substance of the decree itself. The financial cover is two: one is EUR 25 million, to be drawn from the Development and Cohesion Fund, which is already the responsibility of the Campania region; the other is the funds advanced by the Single Justice Fund, which will be returned as a result of the sale of all the properties seized to the camorristic and mafia associations. Since I have seen very few or no sales of these goods in recent years, I believe that this anticipation never takes place. So, on the one hand, we start not having the money from the Single Justice Fund; on the other, we are going to waste 25 million for 2014 and 25 million for 2015 to achieve things that have already been done and that will not actually determine anything good with regard to the problem itself. As Senator d'Anna mentioned, since 1996 there has been a mapping made by the Carabinieri's weapon of all polluted sites in our region. Continuing to speak ill of our Region only hurts its excellence. I would like to add that as far as the emerging nature of the control of contracts and works is concerned, I do not even understand what they can be, because the decree does not determine what works and contracts must be carried out. The decree provides that a mapping must be made, so I do not understand how one can then understand what the works to be carried out, but for mapping - as we have said - this data already exists. Therefore I do not understand what we have to do concretely with the 25 million of 2014 and the 25 million of 2015; I wait for someone to tell me, the rapporteur or the representative of the Government most probably, especially because I do not want to seem, bell as they are, like those who renounce to provisions for their territories. But, alas, even if they are of the same political side, this is also an intervention...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u37	You have to finish, Senator Milo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u38	Milo (GAL). It is a regulation that I do not understand why it should be enacted at national level. Most likely because, after Minister Orlando's folk walk in the agrarian haven, he wanted to put in place a measure that has nothing concrete, except probably the design of some constituency. In fact, I do not understand how the list of a whole series of municipalities comes out without even mapping. I do not know what we are doing here; they compress us with anti-mafia laws referred to in Article 5, an emerging rule; but if so, Madam President and my fellow Members, it is a rule to be extended, as happened for the Expo of Milan, to the whole of the national territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator, please. Milo (GAL). In fact, those who want to combat organised crime cannot do so in Campania; they must fight it everywhere, not only in Campania, adjuvandum. Therefore, the rule set out in Article 5 should be extended, in my opinion, to the whole of the national territory. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators D'Anna and Compagna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are once again approving without having had the opportunity to deepen it and to hold a debate worthy of the term certainly puts a stake between what should be the meaning of redevelopment and what will be the real fallout that will come. I believe that never as in this case can and must be said that not by decree solves the problems. We are talking about a situation that has not occurred as an alluvial emergency or as an earthquake or as an unexpected situation, but that arises from years of degradation and years of maladministration of the public administration. How can you think of solving this with a simple decree-law that defines, at worst, the new crime of fire of waste? Here, in this there is the paradox of wanting to be serious then going to decree even by law things at least ridiculous. Just now Senator D'Anna called Bassolino, as regards problems and damage caused in Campania: let us not forget, Senator D'Anna, the problems generated by the former mayor Iervolino, because they are all situations - those that gravitate around Naples and its territory - that the administrators could not but know. Because of those few who had the responsibility, today many find themselves paying the bill, even we who have nothing to do with those realities, Senator Cervellini. In fact, we remember that when we take the shortcut to say that the problems of Campania derive from the economic speculations of the rich North, we commit yet another mystification, ignoring the responsibilities of a territory regarding the crime that has always infiltrated it: like it or not, the mafia is not a typical phenomenon of Bergamo or Varese. Having said that, let us return to the content: what is foreseen by the decree? To allocate new funds. So we solved the problem by defining whether it is EUR 8 or EUR 80 million? We wouldn't follow a different path from the one we had in the past for Sarno, with hundreds of millions of euros made available to solve an emergency and respond to an emotion that then the press obviously emphasizes in a huge way, with the result that, after years, the problems are still there. Even then, the money was not even spent, resulting in the loss of the EU's contributions. I would therefore have expected responsibility in this bill for those who did not solve the problems or those who had the duty to defend the citizens and did not do so, even going to slap those who, like that poor watchman, found themselves to bear the damage of the tumor, for having done their duty. This is the respect that today, with the decree-law under consideration, is given to the servants of a state and a country that have done everything against everyone, against a system: other than to define that it is a crime to fire a pile of waste: here it is to apply Article 416-b of the penal code, which a few days ago, with emphasis, this same Chamber wanted to approve: the links between the mafia and politics, between the corrupt administrators and a territory that is not healed because it is so convenient. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Here is the nefariousness that must be denounced even inside these classrooms. You can't always think that everything is resolved by allocating some funds or going out in the newspapers saying: We've made the decree "x" and "y"-- maybe with a high-sounding name. If they do not change the culture and the sense of responsibility behind them, nothing will change and the same problems will be resumed again, with the same root march that has generated them, that is, the policy infiltrated by crime, because this is what is at the origin of the problems that are now being addressed in the decree under consideration. I find myself very far away in terms of culture and mentality compared to such realities, but I can only appreciate - and I want to say it publicly - the intellectual honesty of Senator D'Anna, in going to denounce them as Campania. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]] This is what all bell towers should do, proud of a land that is certainly not an expression of the underworld, but that is subjugated by it and by the bad politics, which find a perfect overlap even in many political parties that today govern that Region. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]] This is the nefariousness that must be denounced, even within this House, because, President, if we are here today, it is not simply to approve decrees that the government is giving us fresh water: here too, if anyone intends to abolish the Senate, we do not begin to delegitimize its authority in this way, because with the decrees-laws we simply prevent a part of Parliament from debating in the content, defining first what the Government wants and then simply shutting its mouth very closely to the debate in the Commission and in the House itself, contingency times. This is what must not happen in a country that wants to solve these problems seriously! The difference between us and others is not made by going to Europe and by making beautiful swamped speeches: it is done by telling Europe that we are a serious country that solves problems and does not simply give a brush stroke of white as in white sarcophagi, because this is happening today: a brush stroke of white to rotten sarcophagi! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u42	Madam President, today we are talking about two of the most dramatic environmental emergencies that Italy remembers because sometimes caused by carelessness, sometimes by interests, sometimes by connivances, sometimes by indifference, but always by man's responsibility. The measure under consideration allows us to finally face a dramatic phenomenon defined by the media Terra dei Fuocos and that affects a vast area that extends from the province of Naples to that of Caserta and that for about twenty years afflicts the population of those territories, as well as to restore the environmental conditions favoring the industrial revival of the Ilva of Taranto. The name Terra dei fioco is taken from a famous best seller where were told the most well-known relationships between the ecomafias, regularly and punctually denounced by Legambiente, and that have started judicial investigations still in progress. The Land of Fires represents a deep wound for our country and the consequences have been suffered mainly by the local population, who probably tolerated beyond any limit the disaster that has been happening for some time, reacting - I must say - even late. For years it has acted in total illegality by favouring industrial and mafia interests. In those lands everything was given, from asbestos to radioactive substances, industrial waste and solid and urban waste. The ongoing investigations are revealing the substances that poisoned that land, endangering the health of the present populations. Finally, after twenty years, we begin to take the bull by the horns and this Government has the merit of having issued the measure under consideration, which is only the beginning of a process of reclamation destined to last decades. The effects of high pollution in the Campania agri-food sector, which is one of the pillars of the regional economy, have been devastating. We have approved the contents of this decree-law, which in the House has undergone positive changes and has taken into account the various motions of the two parliamentary classrooms. Apart from the study of the health of the soils of the aquifers of the contaminated sites, the measure provides for an exact mapping of the same ones which - I address to the colleagues who have preceded me - cannot be entrusted only to the Arm of the Carabinieri, but requires the involvement of ISPRA, ARPA and the Higher Institute of Health. The penalties for environmental crimes, which are so much like those of a mafia and a terrorist nature, are then properly tightened up. The measure also allows to prevent, with punctual normative references, the involvement of specialized companies in the field that are also remotely attributable, directly or indirectly, to subjects related to organized crime, as well as to promote guidelines for continuous and constant surveillance and monitoring of the territory with the help of the ARPA, the local health companies and all the police forces present and the territorial authorities. It still allows us to start screening the resident population in order to assess their state of health and to take preventive and prophylaxis measures. It should be remembered that such preventive health measures will cost a considerable amount, which is around EUR 30 million, resources that we believe are well spent because they will avoid the subsequent costs to the health system, due to the inevitable diseases that have occurred, mainly of the oncology type. Indeed, already in 2007 the well-known epidemiological study called "Sentieri" showed an increase in the mortality of populations living near industrial or hazardous waste disposal areas. Most of the diseases were in the tumor type, particularly in the respiratory and digestive organs. It's a socio-environmental drama screaming revenge. One cannot but reflect and forcefully denounce the guilty inertia of those who should have intervened before and did not do so: a wound that must not only cure, but definitely heal. A thank you to the local institutions and populations owe it to those who have fought more than any other for the restoration of the legality and environmental health of those places. My thoughts and my thanks go to Don Maurizio Patriciello. We all know the parish priest who struggles in the front line to restore legality in the lands devastated by the poisons of the Camorra, in favor of his martyred people. I would like to recall a famous passage of Don Maurizio: My only intention is to make, as far as I can, a contribution because mine, yours, our land rises from the death to which it has been condemned. The environmental disaster is before everyone's eyes and costs our people poverty, depression, suffering and death. We haven't been stole anything, we've been robbed of the future and life itself. I still feel strong and live the passionate testimony given by Don Maurizio in the hearing in the Senate Environment Commission, imbued with indignation, bitterness and emotion. He ended his intervention in tears and, almost kneeling, asked for help for that land and for those who live there. This decree-law represents a first, concrete and effective response to unite our voices with that of Don Maurizio and the local population, thus finally ending these years of silence. Remarkable was the effort to find from the budgets the resources necessary for the environmental recovery of the Ilva of Taranto. Again, the population living in the areas adjacent to the plant will be studied, through health screenings controlled by the Higher Institute of Health, which will clearly be completely free of charge for all citizens who wish to undergo control. In fact, the question of Ilva concerns the industrial and therefore labour and employment aspects - and we have had the opportunity to deal with this issue in this House in recent months - but the fundamental issue is the impact of this steel plant's activity on the surroundings of the Apulian city and on the health of the resident population. If we think about what has happened in the city of Taranto, it seems imperative to upgrade the air quality monitoring activities in the area of the plant and the decree in question provides all the necessary tools for a correct implementation of the procedures for authorising detection and monitoring to prevent and restore the quality of the area and the compliance with the requirements of the control bodies. To this end, once the supplementary AIA (integrated environmental authorisation) path has been approved, the time limits laid down in the environmental and health protection plan should be observed and not those of the original authorisation. It is important to stress this step, because it ensures that the deadlines for implementing the environmental and health protection plan are met, without the risk of helplessly assisting in harmful extensions and loss of time. In conclusion, Madam President, it is therefore a great operation of truth, a useful, necessary and necessary intervention. We needed to give a clear signal to the populations of the Campania Region and the city of Taranto and to offer the Forces of order and the judiciary targeted instruments of intervention. The decree commits us to an extraordinary effort which, let us say forcefully, cannot be further postponed. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u43	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u44	Good morning, everyone. I have heard many words here and I think that there are many heads sprinkled with ashes, but the eyes are lined with ham and the ears closed with caps, since the things we talk about with reference to Campania we all know them. Politics has known them, we know, since 1997. And even if we hadn't listened to the words, it would have been enough to look at the documents that so many chemists have written, from which the anomalies result. There are volcanic zones; there is haddock, which in some areas is above the maximum permitted limit and should be reclaimed, but it is a background content; there are some areas where lead is a thousand times higher than the permitted limits. So, here we're fooling ourselves, as always: we see things fifteen years later. Someone said it had nothing to do with the companies in the North: 82 surveys, 448 companies involved, almost all of them from the North. What are we talking about, then? Let's read the papers! Someone said it's the bellies who do this. Let us once again read the papers: for what is happening in Campania we are talking about industrial waste. Return to text: there are some passages that I highlighted. In article 2-a, paragraph 5, it is stated that, with reference to the anti-mafia controls, it is operated by derogation from the code of anti-mafia laws. If we do not specify what derogation we are talking about, we may also have a derogation, not in a restrictive sense, but in the sense of a reduction in anti-mafia controls. When we draw up a standard, we learn to write, please. That is what we should do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At another point we talk about silence-consent: silence-consent is something that conceptually hurts me. In Article 7, two points provide that if opinions are not delivered within the time limit, the opinion shall also be deemed to have been given without expressing its consent. But silence-consent is an institution that sucks, you can't go on like this. Anyone who has to give an opinion must say it, whether it is right or wrong. It is not possible to go on with silence - consensus, it is the de-responsibility of the organs of the State. It can't be done! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u45	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u46	CIOFFI (M5S). I ask for a word, and I will finish the surgery. We must have the courage to express ourselves. If you can do it you do it, if you can't do it you don't do it. We can't go on always or often with silence - assent: it's a crap! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u47	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u48	Madam President, last week in this House we discussed another dramatic problem of the Campania Region, that of abusive construction. Seven days later, today in this House we are debating another problem involving the people of that land, of the Campania Region. I believe, as some of my colleagues have said before me, that the Campania Region is not only a summary of criticalities, negative things and emergencies; there are also many excellences, which are a pride for the whole country. Returning to the decree-law in question, in a very brief way, Madam President, I would like to highlight how the Government was born the need to adopt an emergency measure to give an answer to an objective problem of a tormented land: it arises from the constitution of many spontaneous committees of citizens, of many associations of a territory that at some point decide not to be able to anymore, to rebel against a dramatic problem of those lands and strongly ask the State to give an answer. The Government, taken note, adopts the decree-law that we debate today and that, compared to the original provision, presents itself in a different text, which of course has taken into account the objective situations of discomfort and difficulty that Forza Italia has highlighted in the works that have also taken place in the House. Today, therefore, we are discussing a text that has substantially improved. Thanks to the amendments of Forza Italia, important battles have been won for the protection of the health of the citizens, the environment and the economy of Campania. This is the case, for example, of the exemptions from tickets for early cancer prevention and diagnostic programmes; of the sending of military personnel to the territories affected by the phenomena of the illegal burning and spilling of waste; of the application of the Expo 2015 model against the infiltration of crime into procurement; of the indication of certain times to allow the Minister of the environment to define the quality parameters of water intended for irrigation use on food crops; of the adoption of the regulation on reclamation: these are the positive aspects that the decree contains and are certain responses to a discomfort. Compared to other situations, within the decree under consideration, the Government has undertaken to identify a subsequent response in a short time. The expectation remains, for example, regarding the inclusion of the 57 municipalities of Campania, which, pursuant to the Decree-Law of 10 December 2013, n. 136, will benefit from the setting up of initiatives to deal with environmental and industrial emergencies, starting with the exemption from anticancer screening tickets: I refer, for example, to all municipalities of the Vesuvian belt and which fall back on the site of national interest to be reclaimed on the coast of Domizio Flegreo and Agro Aversano. The same applies to the possibility for the local police forces to intervene outside the borders of their own municipality, but within the perimeter of the 57 municipalities identified by the Ministerial Directive. These are issues on which the Government has committed itself to act. So, there are positive results, but there are also critical issues, including the fact that the citizens of Naples and Caserta will pay for cancer screening and that environmental and supervisory rehabilitation activities will not be excluded from the Stability Pact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator De Siano. DE SIANO (FI-PdL XVII). I'm finishing up, Madam President. Farmers who will burn straw and pruning splits within their own land are also at risk of administrative sanctions. Finally, the rule on the use of resources seized by the clan for reclamation activities is weakened. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by saying that, apart from some objective problems, the decree contains some positive elements. For these reasons, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group is aimed at voting favorably. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u49	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Environment Commission, in the person of the President, of all the members and of the rapporteur, Mr Sollo, who have reached the end of a rather thorough process. In fact, in recent months, the Commission has held on-site hearings and inspections of the sites concerned, it has audited many institutional representations, committees and citizens, as well as civil society and the Corps of the Forces of the Order that are ordinary members of the control of the territory in environmental matters. At the end of this journey, the Government, in the person of Minister Orlando and Undersecretary Cyril, who today represents him in the Chamber and whom I greet and thank for the careful and thorough work that has been done in recent months on these issues, has adopted a measure that moves on different directions and that probably clashes - as my colleague De Cristofaro recalled - with the criticality of putting together two environmental emergencies, from this point of view limiting a deepening also from the Commission. But, objectively, limiting myself to an analysis of the intervention on the Land of fires and on the environmental emergency in Campania, is a measure that tends to achieve some results. First of all, the state makes the state and therefore mapping and investigation. It is true - I address myself to Senators D'Anna and Milo - that probably over the years the Campania Region or some police bodies, in particular the Carabinieri, have made their mapping of some contaminated land, but it is also true that this measure involves some scientific authorities of institutional level, such as ISPRA and ARPAC. Among other things, the important thing is that they make use of some police bodies, in particular the ecological operational core of the Carabinieri (NOE), the State Forestry Corps, the Carabinieri Political and Food Command, the Inspection for the repression of fraud at the Higher Institute of Health, and also the Harbour offices, following an amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, for a check on the fish specificities of that land. The first very strong result is therefore the monitoring by the State, the relevant Ministries, the Region, and the scientific and institutional authorities involved. These authorities will intervene within a set time frame, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, within which they will have to achieve results as a result of mapping. They will have to file a report within 60 days. Therefore, we are no longer at a generic moment, when the intervention moves in a dynamic that does not foresee any coercion in the times: these authorities will have to submit a report, with an attached proposal on the timing and costs of the reclamations and groundwater. In this respect, I have heard several times, even in the debate - unfortunately very brief - held in the Environment Commission, that there was some concern about the fact that little action would be taken on groundwater. This is not the case: not only is action also taken on groundwater, but even paragraph 6-e has been inserted in Article 1, which amends Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006, that is the so-called environmental code, establishing the parameters on the basis of what are the investigations. I therefore understand the frustration of this House, which is called upon to examine in a short time a fairly complex measure such as this one, but I must admit that my fellow Members in the House of Members have done a very deep and complex job, which has enriched and improved the measure. The second issue I want to propose concerns controls. I do not subscribe to the party of ideologisms that the use of the Army for the control of the territory, to support the activities of public security, can lead to a debate such as to amplify the scope of the measure. In this measure it is established first of all that the prefect of Naples will have to coordinate all the interventions in the field of public security and control of the territory. There is a problem: with Article 3 of the measure under consideration we insert a new article of the penal code, the 256-a and a new crime. It is obvious that, from the moment we talk about the Land of Fires, over the years there has been a problem of toxic fires and lack of control of the territory. The state therefore intends to give an immediate message to deal with this emergency and then there will be a need for structural intervention. I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by my colleagues from the other parliamentary groups in the Commission on this subject: we need structural intervention. This is also said by Senator De Cristofaro, to whom I am united by the geographical and bell tower belonging to this land. So faced with the emergency and faced with the initial period, there is a need for the Forces of Order to give themselves a structural characterization for the control of the territory: we must move from the exception to the rule. The President will allow me to speak on a further subject, including to return a minimum of fairness to the debate: the issue of anti-mafia controls. In yesterday's session, Senator Capacchione, in an intervention that I fully share, represented the problem: I remember that the senator, having probably paid for it personally, over the years, denounced the consequences, for years, what happened in the Land of Fires. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Cuomo. CUOMO (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-mafia legislation under this decree is much more restrictive. The derogation refers to much narrower meshes in the controls, which even provide for access to yards. The committee for the high surveillance of the great works, a model borrowed from other experiences, that is being used for the Expo of Milan and also for other reconstruction works, provides much narrower links and even access to the yards and therefore immediate intervention in the matter of anti-mafia controls, also in relation to atypical information. This decree, in the idea of the Democratic Party Group and of those who speak to you, does not want to cover any responsibility; those who have wrong have the duty to pay, and surely there have been political and entrepreneurial mistakes. Nobody wants to cover anything, and Parliament will do well to achieve the truth that must be given back to the people of those places, who have suffered over the years and who have been penalised in terms of health protection. This measure wants to intervene. With this desire, I would like to thank the Head of State, who is trying hard to maintain a relationship between institutions and citizens and who is often vilely and vulgarly attacked in this House too, called for rather than being thanked for the sensitivity he has shown to the people in this matter. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u50	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u51	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u52	Madam President, I will be extremely brief, for a very simple reason: many speeches are shared and acceptable; some are completely out of line and out of the question. However, I would like to take a very important step on two issues. Senator Martelli, I believe that whoever is always convinced and sure of what he says belongs to one of these two races: either he is a presumptuous or, as we say in Naples, he is a pacifier and presumptuous. I'm not the one or the other, I don't feel like one, and as a result, I try to understand things and express my own idea. However, even when I do not share, I always try to respect the idea of others. Even when they're dumb-assed, I respect what's being said. You said things about me, which I think correspond to a series of inaccuracies, but I respect your idea, my esteem and respect. I don't share it, but I value it and respect it. Senator Moronese made some serious statements yesterday. Dear Vilma, we are from the same land and yesterday you used many strong words, such as "mafiosi" and "camorristi." You forget that 70% of the senators in this House have been renewed. You are not just new; you are all new, we are 70 percent new. And I want to tell you, referring above all to the bells, that the senators elected in the Campania college are Rosaria Capacchione, who still walks under escort to fight crime and camorra, and Senator Cuomo and myself, who for ten years have administered two municipalities that have been among the few who have not been dissolved for camorra and never subjected to proceedings or simple clues like that. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] ; Senator Saggese, a valiant official, secretary of the Municipality of Agerola, who did not come from the political world, and Senator Zavoli (I know that he is not well and I send him an affectionate greeting), in front of whom we all have to take off so much of our hat. If you think these people are collusion or mafia-related, I won't allow it and I won't accept it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Although I am opposed to them, I am pleased with Senators Zizza and Piccoli. Senator Zizza, yesterday, he perfectly focused the problem. We have all said that the role of the Senate is debased, because in the House they say the same things and, with this system of perfect bicameralism, those who examine the provision at second reading very often find themselves unable to modify the text. Senator Zizza said two very serious things. The first thing is that never like this time the decree of urgency is appropriate, in method and in substance. This decree was to be made by the Government and was to be converted by us because it concerns an urgent situation: it is therefore a matter of actually urgent decree. Secondly, as many other Members have pointed out, this time the text does not come late because of the Members of the majority, but because of the well-known events which took place in the House last week and which resulted in the loss of seven to ten days; otherwise we would have had plenty of time to change it. Senator Zizza spoke of the famous transparency (a subject that I share very much) and of the video surveillance systems. On the use of the prefecture, I presented an agenda, sharing what Senator Zizza said. I close in a very simple way. Many people don't know what this problem is if they haven't experienced it personally. As mayor, I have lived for ten years eight garbage emergencies. You cannot understand the sufferings of people who had the waste that came up to the first floor. At that time, until 2008, toxic fumes (not fires) were hallucinating. People were picking on us and trying to kill us. I remember that in 2003, just elected mayor, me and other mayors, with the bands, occupied the prefecture, against the prefect and the extraordinary commissioner for the emergency garbage, to try to help us solve the problem. Now, for the first time, a Government and a Parliament are able to put the emphasis on such a wide-ranging issue. I repeat that there has not been a single vote against the House and, if there have been any abstentions, it is only for the well-known events that occurred in the previous days on the decree concerning the IMU and the Bank of Italy; otherwise, probably, everyone would have voted in favour. And are there still those in this House who claim that this decree is bad, wrong or useless? Oh, my God! You live in a crazy world outside. Thank you, Madam President. I think I was even shorter and more comprehensive than yesterday, and I reserve the right, if necessary, to make further comments during the examination of the amendments and agendas. I would like to thank the President of the Commission, my Leader, all the members of the Commission and the officials who have helped me and who will still help me in my work. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Senators Buemi and D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u53	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Mazzini-Capograssi" of Sulmona, in the province of L'Aquila, who are visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u54	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u55	Madam President, as a government we have produced this decree in an emergency, because it is an emergency, even if we have been talking about it for a long time. Many things have already been said in this House and many more have been said in the Chamber of Deputies, where this decree has been abundantly enriched and thus made even stronger and more effective by a great deal of work in the Commission, which I understand has also been attended by many members of other Commissions. Unfortunately, the time to be able to make an effective contribution also by the Senate Environment Commission and later by the House was very short for the well-known facts told shortly before by Senator Sollo. This is the first step towards a great change and also not to make the local mayors feel alone. I tell Senators Sollo and Cuomo, who, like me, wore the three-tone mayor band. When, in the face of emergencies, one does not feel close to the State, one feels abandoned to the weather, which are not those of atmospheric agents, but of other agents acting on the territory with improper forces. That is why it is necessary to make the State feel that there is and that the Government is there, even if it is often criticized, and that it feels the strong support of a majority that shares the essence and also the form, that is, the mode of this decree that is about to be converted into law. I would like to thank the Environment Commission for its sacrifice, which, in the short term, has read, studied and, as it were, brought this measure to the House immediately. I hope - and this is also the thought of Minister Orlando - that there will be a united vote on the part of this House, which would give a huge symbolic strength at a time when Italy needs it, even to the mayors. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u57	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in its capacity, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. Having also examined the amendments referred to it, it delivered the following opinions, in so far as it was competent: - on amendment 1.28 not precluded, provided that the fair compensation provided for therein is not charged to the assets of the local institution, in accordance with its constitutionally recognized financial autonomy; - on the remaining amendments not precluded opinion. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is competent, an opinion that does not preclude: in the assumption that the resources used for the action programmes governed by this decree are actually available and adapted to the type of actions to be carried out and that regular monitoring is carried out aimed at verifying the availability of the amounts of the Single Fund for Justice, used by Article 2, paragraph 5-a, for the actions to be put into safety and clean-up of the Campania region; and with the following observation: it is noted that, with reference to Article 2, paragraphs 5, 5-a and 6, concerning, respectively, the reprogramming of the lines of intervention of the Campania region's action plan and cohesion, the use of part of the amounts of the Single Fund Justice and the use of the European resources available under the Campania 2007-2013 rural development programme, it is necessary to periodically monitor the correlation between the amount of resources used and the amount of the financed burden. With regard to the amendments, it takes the view, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, that the proposals 1.1, 1.28, 1.31, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 2.19, 2.24, 2.27, 2.29, 2.30, 2.32, 2.33, 2.34, 2.44, 3.12, 3.0.1, 7.306, 7.28, 8301, 9.0.1, 1.2, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11, 1.12, 1.23, 1.27, 2.25, 2.41, 6.7, 7.29, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6. The opinion is simply contrary to Amendments Nos 1,24 and 3.9. The opinion on amendment 1.0.1 is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the provision of a financial invariance clause. The opinion is without prejudice to all remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the G100 agenda, presented by the rapporteur, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u59	The Government accepts the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u60	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u61	Madam President, this measure has certain limitations. For example, we have a number of concerns about the quality of the investigations themselves. In the debate yesterday and this morning, as well as in the Commission, this issue emerged clearly. It is evident, in fact, that the emergency of the decree and the assigned times will ensure that, in fact, the methodology of investigation used for the mapping of the land will be based almost exclusively on indirect investigations (remote detection, previous data). Among other things, as repeated several times also by the Regional Environmental Protection Agency of Campania, it would be indispensable instruments of detection and surveys much more binding and direct on the land, carried out with the best available techniques, and supplementing those provided for in paragraph 2. This is therefore the issue that I believe is for the attention of the rapporteur and the Government and that I put to everyone's attention to try to understand how best it will be possible to continue to point out the urgent need to start direct investigations and to use the best technologies. On the other hand, as regards Amendment 1.3, we believe it is absolutely necessary that the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), a national institute supervised by the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea and with a great deal of expertise in this area, be placed as coordinator of the interventions. I believe that this is a guarantee for everyone: for the local population, for the local authorities and for the Ministry itself. I would also like to make two other amendments which I think are particularly important. In particular, with amendment 1.11, the content of which is also reflected in amendment 1.23, it is called for to extend the investigation and therefore to pay particular attention, also to the areas and possible pollution resulting from authorised landfills. The very long period of the waste emergency in Campania (which, as you will have noticed, never ends) has made it clear that many landfills, although authorized, had been made with many derogations from environmental standards and requirements, with very serious consequences from the point of view of soil pollution and groundwater. Amendment 1.28, on the other hand, concerns owners of agricultural land and farmers who are blameless, i.e. those for whom it is demonstrated that they are not aware of or are not involved in the burial of waste. Such subjects have a problem that cannot be addressed only by the reclamation or cultivation of other plants. This amendment calls for consideration to be given to the possibility that agricultural areas at the disposal of the municipalities or the state property may be administered to these farmers while waiting for their land to be reclaimed where possible. It is a very serious issue because it also concerns the economy of this part of the territory and the survival of many blameless farmers and farmers who risk suffering what has happened also in economic terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u62	Madam President, Amendment 1.14 highlights the need to create coordination between environmental protection workers. In the amendment, it is stipulated that the entities referred to in paragraph 1 shall (and may not) use the collaboration of the Carabinieri's ecological operational core, which should, in the intention of the amendment, act as the coordinating body of all the other Forces of the order because this is one of the most important data, in our opinion, to carry out the control of the territory. Then there is amendment 1.21. The representatives of the university have clearly told us that once the criticalities have been detected, we need to tighten the mesh with greater density, and to go down - if this is the case - also in the volume, of the mapping made with the techniques exposed in the decree, also through remote sensing. I must say that we already have these data, which have been put together in the Campania region by the university and Professor De Vivo. We must realize - as the Roman Councillor told me - that we will be able to face a series of appeals, because the presence of pollutants does not always mean that the agricultural product is not good. Mapping is positive, but we must be cautious in acting and forbidding in the field of agriculture and pasture, indeed very cautious, because if you study these subjects you get to know many facts. Amendment 1.25 is very important because, once the soil is found to be contaminated, in the sense that it exceeds the risk threshold, there is the obligation - the Single Text says this unequivocally - of reclamation, also because polluted soil does not respond only for itself, because it is part of the whole biological system and, therefore, affects something else. In any case, beyond this, once we understand that the soil is polluted, we must be able to assess whether, following a reclamation, it can return to agriculture and pasture or, even after a necessary safety, it must be sacrificed to other types of crops or activities. This step is important: we can't go from food to no food so quickly, that it seems to me to be the only intent of the decree. Amendment 1.26 says that once the soil has been contaminated, i.e. it is above the risk threshold, only in situ reclamations must be done using phytopuration and bioremediation techniques. This tells us the unique text, the reason and the university faculty of agrarianism. With regard to amendment 1.31, it is necessary - and I have also consulted with the Councillor of the Campania Region - to find real funds. Those provided by the POR, to which the decree refers, are no longer available. It is therefore necessary to ease the Internal Stability Pact in order to address these kinds of problems. Amendment 1.33 repeats that, instead of using crops, we must defend the biodiversity of our territories, in the sense that we cannot cultivate any crop. Therefore, the appropriate reclamation and safety works are once again stressed. 11:29 a.m. (Nugnes follow). Amendment 1.36 highlights the importance of taking account of the fact that we are in a volcanic area and we do not yet have the rule that we have limits for agricultural land, and even less for volcanic land, which is notoriously richer than some minerals. Finally, Amendment 1.37 states, as it should have been and has not been (since 1996 we know of the pitfalls), that agricultural land prohibited from agricultural use, land to be reclaimed and groundwater forbidden to food use and irrigation must be given immediate and clear communication to the population through press agencies through a clear and unequivocal map with legend of polluted places. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u63	Mr President, amendments 1.5, 1.7 and 1.8 relate to the problem of land mapping. Well, we believe that remote sensing is not enough; it is not only our opinion, but also confirmed by the General Commander of the Forest Corps of the State, the Body to which the mapping activity of the territories is entrusted. It was also mentioned by the ordinary paedology, for which an effective mapping can only be done through direct surveys of the territories and through the environmental characterization to establish the adequacy of the soils and aquifers for the cultivation of food. We also call for amendment 1.10 to be adopted because the decree-law provides for mapping to be reserved for agricultural land, while we forget that there may be other land, not for agricultural use, where cultivation is temporarily or transitoryly carried out. With amendment 1.16, however, recalling the wish of Minister Orlando who invited the local population to submit comments and documents, we ask that we accept the documentation provided by the citizens. Finally, Amendment No 1.17 calls for the publication of all the surveys carried out by the National Institute of Agricultural Economics, so that all the resident population can become aware of the results of the analyses.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendment 1.0.1 has been reworded on the agenda G1.0.1. The decree-law under consideration that, as pointed out yesterday, could be avoided as the indications on how to do and what to do are already contained in the Single Text on environmental matters (legislative decree 3 April 2006, n. 152), unfortunately betrays not the desire to have really at heart the health of citizens and the protection of the environment, but to exploit these serious failures over the years to make electoral ads or favors to friends. I'm really sorry about that. On the agenda, G1.0.1 calls for the coordination of all the agencies in charge, which already exist, in order to achieve an integrated collective programme, aimed at making the best use of resources, which are always few, and more than anything else to ensure that when there is a risk in a site of national interest to be reclaimed, we go to do what we never do, that is to trace the causes of pollution, in order to ascertain the civil and criminal responsibilities, because those who pollute must pay, and citizens must be protected and not answer for the faults of someone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u65	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u66	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u67	Mr President, in order to simplify, I am opposed to all the amendments referred to in Article 1. The opinion is also opposed to the additional amendment 1.0.2. The opinion was in favour of agendas G1.100, G1.101 and G1.102. G1.109 and G1.0.1. I then propose a rewording, in the sense of committing the Government to assess the appropriateness of the G1.105, G1.106 and G1.108 agendas. Given that these are duties of the Region, the State considers the opportunity to raise awareness, because there are things that it cannot do, as they must be done by the various Regions. I therefore propose that these agendas be amended in this way. The opinion was opposed to the agenda by Mr G1.103 and Mr G1.107. The agenda was withdrawn by Senator Di Biagio because a text on the subject has already been adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u68	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u71	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u72	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator De Petris, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u73	Mr President, the rapporteur, who today expressed himself in a dry way, had asked the authors of the amendments in the Commission's examination, and so I and others, to evaluate their transformation into agendas. I would therefore like to know from the rapporteur whether Amendment 1.1 and the others I have outlined, particularly 1.11 and 1.28, remain the call for withdrawal and the possibility of turning them into agendas, in which case I would join the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u74	Mr President, it is obvious that, although I have shortened my speech, what we have said in the Commission is understood: when we arrive at the amendment in question, as we have said, if there is my willingness, the manifesto, and I have already done so with regard to the three amendments in question. I would point out, however, that this reasoning is taken away from the amendments on which the Commission's 5th opinion is opposed under Article 81 of the Constitution, and that is why I am in favour of the rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u75	Colleagues, if the rapporteur makes a proposal to the Commission, we come to this House with the rewording of the agenda: if we do so in the House on each of them, it becomes really complex, all the more so when there is an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u76	Mr President, I therefore withdraw Amendments 1.1, 1.11, 1.23 and 1.28 and turn them into a single agenda, while keeping others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u77	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u78	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u79	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u80	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.2 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u83	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know what was proposed by the rapporteur on the agenda G1.106: whether it should be accepted tout court or reworded? PRESIDENT. - The debate is An acceptance with rewording, inserting the usual sentence in the device: "to evaluate the opportunity of "to." MARTELLI (M5S). Well, then, with regard to agendas G1,105 and G1,106 I do not accept the proposed rewordings, so I keep them in the original text and ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u86	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 1.26, which proposes to replace the reference only to different crops, to the first period of paragraph 6 of Article 1, first of all by reclamation and, only if this cannot happen, to different crops.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u87	Senator Nugnes, I invite you to renew the proposal when we arrive at Amendment 1.26. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.5 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10 and 1.12 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u90	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I call on the senators to reflect on this proposal to remove paragraph 2 of Article 1 from the list of those who are called upon by the Agriculture Agency (AGEA). The reason is simple: the proverb says that wandering is human but persevering is diabolical, and in this case we are talking about involving AGEA, an agency that had already been defined as a body to be resized, subsequently revised in the law of stability for 2014, of which we know life, death and miracles in terms of errors, problems and catastrophes created in agricultural management in the years ago. The same body is again involved, when on the territory there are regions that have capable structures, able to solve problems of investigation, verification or analysis. We will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment and call for the support of the other groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u93	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of this amendment precisely for the reasons that have just been expressed: the AGEA has been responsible, to say the least, for bad management in agricultural payments, and so to involve it once again is like putting the bear to guard against jam. Vote in favour of this amendment is the minimum wage for us! [[Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u94	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u97	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment, bearing in mind the importance of acquiring all documents from citizens as well. With regard to amendment 1.10, which has been stated to be impervious, as this is an important aspect, I would like to ask the representative of the Government whether at least he can accept an agenda in this regard. We believe in fact a hole in the decree not to submit to the mapping also the land not to agricultural destination but temporarily destined for this activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u100	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, before I give an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1.16, allow me to support Mr Arrigoni's remarks. Amendment 1.10 - which, in our view, should have been put to the vote - concerns a legislative hole in the decree under consideration, since it leaves out the land which is not now cultivated but which could be cultivated in the future, thus permanently avoiding the investigation. You can't let this thing go through like this. On the other hand, with regard to Amendment No 1.16, which we are about to vote on, we continue to talk about the involvement and participation of citizens, throwing the cross on the citizens of Campania. At a time when, with this amendment, there is an opportunity to tell the citizen that he can also make alerts, he does not take this into account. We therefore definitely want to consider the citizens bad, without leaving them the chance to be good. I therefore welcome my Group's vote on Amendment No 1.16. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u101	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the request for the amendment to be amended to the agenda 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u102	Mr President, if Amendment 1.10 were to be turned into an agenda, I would be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u103	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G1.10, with the introduction into the system of the formula "to assess the appropriateness".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u104	Senator Arrigoni, do you agree? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.10 agenda will not be put to the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u107	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, it is important for us to make this further specification, in the sense that what we do not want to be done in the compromised land must be explicitly prohibited. In the decree there is simply written not to do agriculture, but you could still put in place other activities on that site that could endanger the health of people, temporarily or permanently. Consequently, it is essential to include these specifications. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the amendment by my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u108	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,300 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. On Amendment 1.26, Senator Nugnes indicated that she wanted to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u109	Mr President, I confirm the contrary opinion expressed on the amendment on a possible agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u110	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u111	Senator Nugnes, do you maintain the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u112	Of course. It is the proof that you do not want to make the Bonifice, but that you want to deliver Campania instead to the industrial sector. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u113	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.27 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.31 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senators Stefano and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.35. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.36, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100, G1,101 and G1,102 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u116	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I insist on voting on this agenda, with the same reasons. As an agenda, we know very well that the commitment is more nuanced than an amendment, but the underlying reasons do not change: AGEA takes care of something else; it takes care less of what it deals with or has dealt with in the past and more, instead of giving answers to citizens and farmers. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u117	I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. The agenda was withdrawn. On agendas G1.105 and G1.106 Senator Martelli asked for the vote by refusing the rapporteur's invitation to reword them by including the words "to assess the appropriateness of" and asked for the vote. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u120	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, with regard to the agenda, I cannot understand why we want to include the formula 'to assess the appropriateness of the proposal'. So we confirm that we want to vote as it is. We are simply asking for monitoring of steel production. In this country, in fact, it would be time to understand that if we want to give back momentum to production we must understand what we have to produce. When we talk about steel, we need to understand that perhaps it would be useful to assess what domestic demand is and to go to meet it. It is no longer useful, because it is uneconomic and is not part of the production cycle, to produce steel when we have as our competitor China, which has a much lower labour cost. We could never produce competitive steel unless we convert to high-quality steel. In this case, it is a question of defining an industrial strategy. The case of Electrolux is clear: there is a situation in which we cannot compete with the cost of labour and we have to understand that we have to work, if anything, on production and domestic demand, only on that, without going into over-production. It's about choosing. The agenda only calls for monitoring to initiate clarification of how much steel we have to produce in our country. We simply ask you to do a monitoring program. Honestly, I don't understand the government's opposition to a monitoring programme, so I ask everyone to vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u121	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.105 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u124	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address the rapporteur, who first, in the eyes of the President, gave me some pacifier and presumptuous. That's what happened! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't hear those expressions. MARTELLI (M5S). She wasn't on the presidency, but I heard. There may also be a third way, not contemplated, so maybe I said the right things. However, I again ask the rapporteur whether he has read this agenda: that is five lines. It is simply asked that the appropriate decrees be issued at the time of approval to establish (because they are not fixed) the parameters to be used to identify the forbidden soils. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I need to know what the parameters are, to say if a soil is good or bad. This is not an issue on which the opportunity can be assessed. It must be done. Evaluating the opportunity means that I value and then maybe decide not to, while it has to be done. How can you issue the decree if you do not do this at the same time? If I want to buy a house, I have to determine whether the land is a cliff or whether it's buildable. It's inherent. I have to do it. Therefore, the sense of "evaluating the opportunity" does not exist. This agenda should be incorporated as it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u125	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.106 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.107 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G1.108, the call for its rewording was made. I'll ask Senator Nugnes if he agrees to rephrase it. NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G1.108 (text 2), G1.109 and G1.0.1 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u128	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I told you that I would ask for amendment 1.36 to be changed to the agenda. When we went to the vote on the amendment, I raised my hand to intervene and ask to change it, but you did not give me the floor. Then we voted on it and now I can no longer make that request: this pains me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You didn't raise your hand, Senator Nugnes. At least it wasn't reported to me. NUGNES (M5S). I waited - as you told me - for us to come to this amendment, I raised my hand, but you did not give me the floor. Then we voted for it. Just to let you know, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Fucksia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the time for some groups is running out and, therefore, I would urge them to confine themselves to their speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u130	I withdraw Amendments 2 5, 2.7, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 2.29 and 2.32.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u131	President. - I would like to make an amendment to Rule 2-a. Can I do it now? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, if you want. MORONESE (M5S). This is Amendment 2-a.301, which addresses the issue of derogation from the anti-mafia laws. As Mr Cioffi has already said in general debate, I would like to repeat once again that it seems absurd to give legal support to organised crime, as is the case with this amendment in the House. I want to think that there has been a mistake, a very serious mistake, which I hope you can make up for in this House, because otherwise, when this thing comes out in the newspapers, you will have to give it to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The initiative of this amendment is by the deputy Paolo Russo di Forza Italia and is nothing more than a copy of Article 16 of Decree-Law No 39 of 2009, the one drawn up, to understand us, for the earthquake of the Eagle. We have seen what it has produced and what it is producing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Also (I turn to Senator Cuomo), if the intention was to narrow the jersey, it had to be specified, and it had not to be written simplistically, to go by way of the anti-mafia laws. In fact, in recent days - in January - before the measure before it came to the Assembly, there have been the first cases of companies related to the clan of the housewives who have tried to get their hands on the first call for tenders for the Bonifici. I'm talking about the dump "Resit" in Giugliano (Naples), in the middle of the Land of fires: this was explained very well by the judge of Corte di cassazione, Raffaello Magi, and the commissioner at the Bonifice Mario De Biase, in an investigation of January 11, published in the...Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). Think carefully about the vote you will be voting on this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u132	Mr President, the House of Deputies has introduced paragraph 4-d of Article 2, which I agree with, because it basically provides that the Region of Puglia, on a proposal from the Higher Institute of Health, will identify the investigations that must be carried out on the prevention side, in order to monitor the state of health of the population resident in the territory of Taranto and Statte. In explaining the amendments tabled to Article 2, I am referring to this amendment made by the House of Deputies to point out that there is no qualified and accredited epidemiological study - moreover, many of them have been taken into account by the competent Commissions during their work on the provision in the Chamber of Deputies - which does not show that the territory affected by the effects of the polluting production of Ilva is not only that of Taranto and Statte, but is much more extensive. Someone even mentioned an arch, an embankment, a radius of territory of about 20 kilometers. On the basis of this consideration, through amendments 2.23 and 2.25 I ask that the activity provided for in paragraph 4-d of Article 2 be extended to a broader territorial area, however in accordance with the provisions, indications and epidemiological studies, and that the necessary resources be found by the Government to finance this fundamental prevention activity. Again with regard to Article 2, Amendment 2.28 refers to the need to avoid the permanence of a paradox. Through the measure under consideration (which demonstrates a fairly wide convergence, with the vote shared also by the Forza Italia Group), we are trying to give a response, also on the health side, to a problem of pollution with effects and relapses sometimes devastating. Well, while we are trying very hard to respond to these very serious problems, in Taranto, paradoxically, the transport of cancer patients has been suspended, because the resources have run out. This is a matter of unique gravity, because there are patients in chemotherapy and radiotherapy, who have been abandoned to themselves, because the resources are over. The commitment of the Government should therefore be - and I urge you to do so - to implement every possible initiative aimed at using even a small part of the resources destined to the health service of the Puglia Region for the immediate resumption and the continuation of the transport service to the sick. I shall conclude, Mr President - and I shall not have to speak later - by referring to Rule 8. I believe there is a need to identify a precise time frame, to be fixed, for the activity that the Higher Institute of Health is called upon to carry out, in the context of the epidemiological study "Sentieri". The update of polluted sites must be compared to a precise time frame. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u133	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u134	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u135	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, including the additional ones. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G2.100 and G2.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u138	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Senator Stefano would have liked to have explained amendment 2.26. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We called Senator De Petris. After the Government's opinion, we will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u139	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u140	Please, Senator Stefano, may you explain amendment 2.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u141	Mr President, I would like to raise awareness, as Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri has done in part, of the fact that Amendment 2.26 seeks to respond to the very serious environmental and health situation in Taranto and in the Province. As Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri mentioned a few moments ago, the oncology transport service is suspended due to insufficient resources. I think it would be a good cause to be able to embrace in this House. However, I understand the problems of a second reading, and at this point, if the rapporteur and the Government are to be patient with me, I am prepared to withdraw Amendment 2.26 and turn it into an agenda, so that we can continue to have a commitment that I would like the Government to make here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u142	This initiative is absolutely acceptable. I call on the rapporteur to comment on the request made by Senator Stefano to turn Amendment 2.26 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u143	Mr President, in the event of amendment 2.26 being changed to the agenda, with the usual formula for assessing the appropriateness of the amendment, my opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u144	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I believe that the speech also applies to amendment 2.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u145	Mr President, I take note of the statements made by the rapporteur and the Government and I would ask that, with the usual clause, the Government should consider whether it would be appropriate to accept the agenda in which I would turn amendments 2,23, 2.25 and 2.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u146	I invite the rapporteur to comment on the request made by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u147	I give a favourable opinion. I would just like to point out to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri that for amendment 2.25 the part on which the 5th Commission has expressed the opposite opinion should be extrapolated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u150	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u151	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u152	I take this opportunity to greet the representatives of the Municipal Council of the boys of Casalnuovo di Napoli, who have conveniently come on the day when it is a decree relating to their territories. I hope that you all - including myself - will set a positive example for future administrators. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u155	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 2.26, first signed by Senator Stefano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has been turned into an agenda, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). The same issue was also addressed by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I do not believe that this issue can be resolved with an agenda. This is a matter for cancer patients who are not transported. To reserve 10% of that share I believe that it is an operation that the Government can already assess and on which it can respond positively. In the face of such a situation, we cannot commit the government to solving it we do not know when. If the transport of these patients has been blocked today, immediate action must be taken through this funding.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u156	Senator Caliendo, these amendments are in the hands of the presenters. The presenters Stefano and D'Ambrosio Lettieri accepted a request. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I'll do it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He cannot make his own what has been transformed into an agenda and has been accepted. And, given the dates on which we are discussing the decree, I believe that the two presenters have made a choice of opportunities and strictly positive. (Senator D'Anna asks to intervene.) Senator D'Anna, you cannot intervene on this matter, because it is not the object of the dispute. There's no such thing as an object. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 2.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u159	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, amendments 2.4 and 2.5 are withdrawn. We have also communicated this in the Commission and in the legislative field. It is probably not reported because of a mere error. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2.4 has not been withdrawn. You want to pick him up now, Senator Moronese? MORONESE (M5S). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u160	The Presidency notes that amendments 2.4 and 2.5 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.8 is impervious. Amendments 2.7, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u163	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to correct the inexactness that was said yesterday in the Commission. In the text of Article 2, in paragraph 4, it is said that an extraordinary and urgent programme of interventions aimed at the protection of health, - right - to safety, - right - and to the reclamation of the sites is to be started. It has been said, as far as the reclamation of the sites is concerned, that everything has been reclaimed. This is false, because, with regard to the reclamation of the site, it was necessary to write the following: the reclamation of the site and the pollution produced by it. As I have already explained in the Commission, when it rains the meteor waters transport the pollutants on the waterproof bottom and the groundwater takes them far away. When I cleared the site, I completely lost control of the pollutants. There may be someone, 50 kilometers downstream, who pulls up the water (which is polluted), irrigates its field and transfers pollution from below to above. So, the moment you write something, you should try to write it better. We now propose to put this text in place, including, to the greater protection of health (as we speak of it), also the reclamation of the layer until it has arrived. Therefore, please take courage, because if we want to protect health, these things must be voted on. Have the courage to vote for them. [[Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u164	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.19 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.21.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u167	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that if the Committee and the Commission take initiatives which differ from the issues raised by the Advisory Council, they must give detailed reasons for them. It is useless, in fact, to refer to the Aarhus Convention, which provides for assemblies with adversaries, when we simply say that proposals and documents can be sent, to which it is not specified how they will be followed. In any case, I withdraw amendment 2.21 and turn it into an agenda, to commit the Government to ensuring that denials and decisions against them are communicated and, above all, justified to the population.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u168	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda presented by Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u169	Mr President, I am in favour of this agenda, where the words 'to assess the appropriateness' are included in the system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u170	The Government accepts the agenda G2.21, with the formula "to assess the appropriateness".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u171	Senator Nugnes, do you accept the wording of the G2.21 agenda proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u172	Yes, I accept it, also because I don't think that's all we can do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u173	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.21 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u176	First, however, I note that the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms, the North League and the Autonomous 5 Star Movement have run out of time. So, I'm asking them to use it as best they can. MARTELLI (M5S). I'll use the office minute. We call for a vote in favour of amendment 2.22 which is of super-good sense. It provides for a very simple thing, namely that the polluter, who is responsible for pollution, cannot be the reclaimer. Otherwise, a vicious circle opens up, causing pollution or pollution by someone (e.g. organised crime) and then organised crime itself cleans up and maybe even takes money. That, too, is the minimum wage. I repeat: have the courage to vote for it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u177	Senator Martelli, I gladly gave you a minute, but I remind you that if there was a political 18 in the past, there is no political minute in the Rules of Procedure! Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.23, 2.25 and 2.28 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.23 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendments 2,24 and 2,27 are impervious. Amendment 2.26 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.26 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.30 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.32 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.33 and 2.34 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.35. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.35, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.36, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2,37, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.38. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2,38, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.39. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.39, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.40.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u180	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the security of the sites and the reclamations are financed through the resources of the Single Fund for Justice. Amendment 2.40 calls for resources to be used throughout the national territory and where the Bonifications of certain sites are to be carried out; therefore, not only Campania. With this amendment we call for the fund to be used for other territories as well. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u181	I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2,40, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.41 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.42. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.42, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.43. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.43, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.44 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u184	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, with Amendment 2.45 we ask that the Campania Region report annually to Parliament on the state of implementation of the interventions. The Government gave a negative opinion on this amendment. I would like to ask whether the content can be accepted by turning it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u185	I am in favour of adopting the agenda, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u186	Mr President, the Government is willing to accept it, but always with the formula "to assess the opportunity." [[Comments from M5S and LG-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u187	Let's not expose ourselves too much! Senator Arrigoni, do you accept? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u190	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, we would also like to sign the agenda for G2.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u191	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.45, G2.100 and G2.101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2-a. 300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u194	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, as I have already said in the general debate, the already very specific rule is even more stringent. Writing "by way of derogation" does not mean widening the meshes. It can also mean tightening them. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] Among other things, the Legislative Assembly, also in the presence of the Government, gives the authentic interpretation of the norm. I would also like to point out that from this point of view, the Committee on High Monitoring of Large Works uses even more stringent rules. Among other things, Mr President, many of us in our political, personal and administrative history have always fought organised crime. So it would be unthinkable that in a public Chamber like this, in an institution, something other than the legislator's understanding should go through. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u197	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, then it was certainly a mistake because the word 'derogate', as Mr Cuomo rightly said, can have meaning both in a restrictive sense and in a sense of liberalisation. It will depend on who will handle the norm. We believe that it is extremely dangerous precisely because the Monitoring Committee already has guidelines which determine that it should act more restrictively. Inserting the key word "deroga" means giving it another indication. So if there is no bad faith, as I absolutely exclude it, it is absolutely a mistake. That at least one agenda will solve this which is a very serious problem and one of the reasons why you will have our no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u198	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2-a. 300, presented by Senators Moronese and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2-a.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2- bis.1, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2-a.301.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u201	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reiterate the importance of voting in favour of Amendment No 2-a.301 by Mrs Moronese, which abolishes the shameful paragraph 5 of Article 2-a, which is based on the reconstruction of Abruzzo. Now you have to tell me if you really think that the reconstruction of the Eagle is a model to follow. On the matter of derogating from the anti-mafia rules we can turn around all day: it means giving, once again, those lands devastated in the hands of the Camorra - as has been done so far - with the approval of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u204	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I am also speaking in an explanation of vote for clarity, because I do not want to be in this House this morning completely repulsed. I read, to protect everyone, paragraph 2 of Article 2-a, which reads as follows: In order to ensure the effective performance of the activities referred to in paragraph 1 (b) - therefore the functions of the prefect in the matter of coordination and of activities aimed at preventing any form of infiltration of organized crime - the Coordination Committee for the high surveillance of large works, established pursuant to Article 180, paragraph 2, of the Code of Public Contracts relating to works, services and supplies, referred to in Legislative Decree No 163 of 12 April 2006, and subsequent amendments, operates to immediate and direct support of the Prefect of Naples, through a specialised section established at the prefecture-territorial office of the Government, which constitutes a form of operational link between the existing offices and which cannot be configured as an organisational articulation of a managerial level or as an office of a stable and permanent character. By decree of the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Ministers of Justice, the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the economy and the finances, to be adopted within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, are defined the functions, the composition, the human resources and the instrumental endowments of the section, to be identified however in the within of the human resources, financial and instrumental of the Ministry of the inside available to current legislation and without new or greater burdens for the public finance, as well as the modalities implementing the provisions aimed to prevent the infiltrations of the organized crime in the works and interventions of monitoring and reclamation of the polluted areas. That's the text. Paragraph 5 also speaks by way of derogation, and this derogation should refer to stricter rules, which are specific to the guidelines. A more careful reading of the text would therefore be enough to understand that we are planning to do even more effective controls. The derogation is narrower. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u207	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions, when it comes to the sensitive issue of the relationship between the State and organised crime and the fight against Camorra and the Mafia, five-star colleagues are putting the State and Camorra on the same footing. Mr Giarrusso has particularly distinguished himself in this House, and also outside, in pointing out colleagues who have different ideas on how to combat the mafia as collusion with organised crime. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] I want to remember, because...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u208	I'm here, Senator Giovanardi. Talk to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u209	GIOVANARDI (NCD). But I am addressing the Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought I saw you talking to your right. Maybe it was my mistake. GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, let us not exaggerate now. When one speaks, he addresses the Presidency, but he can also address his colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is more in the Rules of Procedure. Talk to me. GIOVANARDI (NCD). I'm going back to saying that we don't have to be ridiculous when we talk about serious things. I'm reading Caterina Chinnici's book about her father's sacrifice. I remember that dozens of men from the institutions and the state lost their lives in the fight against organised crime. Supporting in Parliament that Camorra and the Mafia are collusion or state-covered is the best gift that can be given to Camorra, the Mafia and organised crime. I say this to my five-star colleagues who continue to put the institutions and Parliament on the same footing as criminals who are committed to organised crime. [[Applause from the NCD, PD and SCpI groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Let's not have a party! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let us return to the subject of our debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u212	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am telling you this constructively: either we stick to the subject we are discussing today in this House, or we open a debate for days. Therefore, or it interrupts, as well as from the Rules, the speeches that are outside the subject of the discussion, or it must give the same space to the entire Group of the 5 Star Movement (not of 5 Stars, Senator Giovanardi). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u213	Since we have to vote on the amendments, my will is to proceed in the vote of the amendments. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 2-a.301 tabled by Senators Moronese and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2-a.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u216	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, just to contest what has just been said, if the text were to be well written, it would not have been written by way of derogation, but by way of addition, because it means exactly what is written on the vocabulary. In fact, Amendment 2-a.2 very correctly provides for replacing the words "by derogation" with "by additional measures" to make sure that the text does not weaken. Therefore, be careful, because this is the concept: we want to strengthen the anti-mafia protections, not weaken them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u219	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate on the previous amendment confirmed the uncertainty caused by the wording of paragraph 5 of Article 2-a. With the amendment we wanted to remove this uncertainty and replace the phrase "also by derogation" with the phase "also by additional measures," which was an unequivocal statement, so that anti-mafia controls were made at least using the code of anti-mafia laws, but also with additional measures. Therefore, the adoption of amendment 2-a.2 would solve all the problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u222	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the model is not that of Abruzzo, but that of the Expo, which has already led to the ban [[Comments from the M5S Group]] of 41 companies which had applied for subcontracting. Thanks to these measures it was possible to verify that there was something wrong: they allowed the prefect, who also coordinates the action in this device, and the interforce committee that is created to check if there was something wrong; they allowed to have the anti-mafia certificate quickly. Just ask your representatives in the anti-Mafia Commission: they have explained this to us several times and they know how it works. The derogation is to be left, because it is a derogation, and the fact that it is not in the sense of mitigation is written, because it is such when the traceability of financial flows is foreseen by way of derogation from the anti-mafia code. When you expect the white list - things that are written in law - we are in derogation from the anti-mafia code. Therefore, there is no point in trying to make propaganda about this issue. This is the best tool that the state can put on the field today to avoid mafia infiltrations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u223	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2-a.2 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2-a.302.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u226	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Cuomo, whom I am not even rebaked, and I can read well. Paragraph 5 of Article 2-a states that anti-mafia checks on public contracts shall also be carried out in accordance with the guidelines set out by the Committee... also by way of derogation from the provisions laid down by the Committee. We are legislators: as Senator Arrigoni said, we must not leave uncertainty; we should make precise, precise rules and not fall into error. I want to point out to Mr Sollo that probably in this legislature the members of the Democratic Party have changed, but the leadership of the PD is always the same, and we in Campania have suffered the consequences, see Bassolino. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u227	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2-a.302 tabled by Senators Moronese and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u228	Mr President, I would like to point out that there is another mistake in the amendments before us, in my view, because it is said that the person responsible for the fire is required to restore the status of the site and to compensate for environmental damage, unlike the single environmental text. Unfortunately we know from experience that the one who hangs the fire is usually almost nothing person. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] If, therefore, we want to return to him for compensation for the damage, we will be in very serious trouble. The aim of the amendment is therefore to specify that the responsibility must be first of all with regard to the principal, then with regard to the owner who has left the soil unattended - where it is responsible - and, finally, with regard to the material responsible for combustion, but not with regard to the latter in the first instance, with regard to the others, otherwise we will not get a penny. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u229	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u230	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u231	Mr President, my opinion on all the amendments to Article 3 is against, including the additional one, 3.0.1, regardless of the fact that it is also impervious. As far as agendas are concerned, the opinion is in favour of the G3.100 and the G3.101, although I would like to point out to Senator Candiani that in reality it is practically useless, because the rule is already provided for in article 3, paragraph 6, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, in the environmental connection.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u232	. Repetita iuvant. SOLLO, rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G3.102, I am in favour, provided that the inclusion of the formula is accepted, and the Government is committed to assessing whether it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u233	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, both on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u236	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I did not understand the opinion on the G3.102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u237	It is in favour, provided that you agree to include the words "assessing the opportunity" instead of "engaging the Government." MORONESE (M5S). I understand, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u240	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u241	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Nugnes and Puglia to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, we're in the process of voting. You will be able to speak on the next amendment. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u244	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, when he opened the vote on Amendment 3.2, Mr Arrigoni quite rightly asked for the floor to speak in an explanation of vote, but you postponed this moment, and I did not understand why, since the explanation of vote was precisely on the amendment under consideration. In the meantime, however, I did not give any indication because I was waiting for the explanation of vote, and then you closed the vote. [[Brusio.]] What do you got, colleagues? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I regret this, but when the vote is open, no one should normally be allowed to speak before the vote is closed. Montevecchi (M5S). I would therefore ask you, please, to put the 5 Star Movement's abstention vote on Amendment 3.2 to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u245	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u246	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u248	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the subject dealt with in this amendment seems very small, but we know that in our country it happens that, as in the case of building abuse, small abuses are being demolished and great injustices maintained. In this particular case, when it comes to the burning of waste, it must be borne in mind that in many regions there are customs on the part of farmers on the combustion of the residue of the productions; think of the residue of the rice rather than the residue of the mowing of the wheat or the twigs at the end of the season. They are small managements of rural agriculture which, if not specifically outlined, will come into conflict with the legislation that is being put in place. I would remind you of the next agenda G3.101 with which we call on the Government to take account of the same issues that are the subject of amendment 3.7 and to make a clear commitment (not simply to consider whether this should be done) in order to avoid this type of unpleasant overlap. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u249	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u250	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u252	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we do not share the use of resources for the use of the military in Campania, because the resources that the Stability Act has allocated to the personnel that should be used for the surveillance services of sensitive areas and metropolitan areas are being taken. We shall therefore vote in favour of Amendment 3.8. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u253	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.9 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u254	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u256	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, in this case too, we do not agree with the use of resources in favour of monitoring the rural territory of the Campania Region, because we are going to withdraw and drain the resources that the law of stability has allocated in favour of fire brigades, which we know how to carry out a very important work on the territory. We shall therefore vote in favour of Amendment 3.11. [[Applause from Senator Bisi in the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u257	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3.12 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3,100 (text 2), G3,101 and G3,102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3.0.1 is impervious. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u258	I am against Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u259	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u260	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u261	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u263	Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u264	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u265	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5. On the other hand, as regards agendas, the opinion was opposed to the agenda for Mr G5.100 and Mr G5102, while it was in favour of the agenda for the G5.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u266	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u267	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u270	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u271	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u272	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u274	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, this decree is still concerned, in general, with the waste emergency in Campania, extending for the umpteenth time the Technical and Administrative Unit until the end of 2015. Well, apart from the question of the Land of Fires, we believe that throughout the rest of the Region management must return to normality and should therefore be entrusted to the Provinces and the Municipalities. Amendment 5.2 goes in that direction. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u275	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.3 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.4 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.5, which is identical to Amendment 5.6 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendment 5.6 (correct text), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and the Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Senator Arrigoni, do you insist on voting on the agenda G5.100? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the agenda of G5.100 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.101 will not be put to the vote. Senator Arrigoni, do you insist on voting on the agenda G5.102?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u276	Yes, Mr President, and I make a brief explanation of vote. With this decree the UTA (Technical and Administrative Unit) has been extended, leaving to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to revise also its composition, the functioning and the economic treatment of the staff. We call on the Government to ensure that this reorganization does not result in an increase in the staff allowances of this structure: this is a common sense agenda in a spending review period. I therefore call on the Government representative to review his assessment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u277	As I do not think that the representative of the Government is asking to speak, let us proceed to the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G5.102 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u278	Mr President, I rise on Amendment 6.7, which I have withdrawn and turned into the agenda, and I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government for their willingness to accept it, given the particularly important and significant issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u279	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u280	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u281	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I would like to make it clear that Amendment 6.5 has been withdrawn and transformed into an agenda for my signature. I am therefore in favour of the G6.7, as well as the G.6.100, G6.101 and G6.102 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u282	I agree with the rapporteur, both on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u283	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u286	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u287	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.2 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.3 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 6.4 is impervious. Amendment 6.5 has been withdrawn and transformed into the rapporteur's agenda G6.5 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 6.6 is impervious. Amendment 6.7 has been changed to agenda G6.7 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G6.100, G6.101 and G6.102 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u288	Mr President, I am speaking both on Amendment 7.5 and on 7.6, which are very similar. If the health damage assessment report highlights the need to review the parameters of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) it is obvious that there must be the possibility of the review, also pursuant to Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, Article 29-g, to ensure that it does not become mere automatism. I therefore call on everyone to vote on Amendments 7.5 and 7.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u289	Mr President, in Article 7 we have tabled a number of amendments of particular importance. I would like to point out, in particular, Amendment 7.3, which concerns the possibility that at the end of a public evidence procedure there will be publication on the Internet sites of the Ministries of Environment and Health, as well as of the Region and local authorities concerned of all the comments received by the parties and associations, for the final drafting of the plan. Otherwise, we always talk generically about citizen participation and informed procedures, but we never ensure and never proceduralize the effective participation of citizens in the formation of particularly sensitive decisions, especially with regard to the productive and industrial future of Ilva. Again with regard to this rather complex article concerning Ilva, we are tabling a number of deleterious amendments. In particular, I would like to point out amendment 7.29 on full rewording, which completely rewrites point (g) of paragraph 1. It is a particularly complex amendment because we believe that the whole of Article 7 should be completely rewritten, especially as regards issues relating to the AIA. The amendment that marks rewrites all the letter g), paragraph 1, article 7, especially with reference to the identification of the resources necessary for the environmentalization of the Ilva. The other issue that we allow ourselves to point out is the issue of the implementation of the AIA. It introduces the principle that the requirements of the AIA should be fulfilled by 80% weight; we, with amendment 7.17, expect a more effective rewording of this standard, which was introduced to the House, among other things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u290	Mr President, I would like to return to the question of Article 7, particularly with reference to point (d). As far as the AIA is concerned, it is considered that the AIA is respected if data are still recorded that are not worse than those recorded before the Commissioner's management. I believe that this is indeed an abnormal fact. Then, in this continuation of derogations, it is said that if the measures (and therefore not even implemented) needed to comply with at least 80% of the requirements (in the first version it was even 70%), this means that the AIA has been complied with. I believe that this really means denying the AIA its necessary function. Therefore, in amendment 7.16 it is envisaged to replace the word 'booted' with'realised', so that 80% of the works referred to are at least carried out. Subsequently, amendment 7.21, referring to the principle of silence-consent, which in my opinion really means the loss of any possibility of control, calls for the word "favourable" to be replaced by the word "favourable": in the absence of any response from the institutions within the specified time limits, the opinion must be considered unfavourable. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u291	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 7.0.1 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u292	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments before us and on the agenda G7.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u293	As far as all the amendments to Article 7 are concerned, I am against them. The opinion was in favour of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u294	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion on the amendments and I accept the agenda G7.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u295	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u298	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u299	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.1 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.2 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.3 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 7.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot. 152. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 7.5 and amendment 7.6 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.7 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.8 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u300	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u302	MORONESE (M5S). I would ask you to bear in mind this amendment which may not have been understood. The plan of measures, which seems to you an improvement and which replaces the industrial plan (because obviously there is no industrial plan), concludes the AIA review and extends this method to the commissable establishments, referred to in Article 12 of Decree-Law 101 of 2013. It is therefore absolutely essential to extend the application of the single environmental text to new Commissioners as well. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u303	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.10 which is identical to Amendment 7.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.10 tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendment 7.11 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.12, which is identical to amendment 7.300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u304	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u306	MARTELLI (M5S,). Mr President, this really is the most terrible point of this measure, which should be deleted in its entirety, because that is our proposal. I said this yesterday in general debate, but you were not there: I am glad that you are now present. In the standard it is stated that the integrated environmental authorisation is intended to be respected when 80% of the work is started. We are therefore talking about'started' interventions. But a house is finished if the windows, the door lock and the mat are also delivered. You understand that it is not possible, in this case, to consider health protection at the moment when something has just begun to be done. It is not over: the norm contains another really bad part. It is said that air quality must not have deteriorated due to the share of emissions from the Ilva plant. Since you can never prove the causal link, it is not possible to determine how much pollution is attributable to the plant, because there are no monitoring tools and because you, in Decree-Law 101 of 2013, which you approved, rejected our amendment, which wanted to introduce monitoring tools. For example, in the schedule laid down by sub-commissary Edo Ronchi, it is written that the exhaust sludge, which you did not want to monitor, must be verified in advance at the combustion test: we are wondering whether the sludge and the waste water contain things that burn. You understand that, when you do not allow us to expunge Article 7 (d) you are letting control of a certain type of pollution be completely lost and no one is ever responsible for it. Really put a hand on your conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u307	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendment 7,300, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.301. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.301 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.14, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.15, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.16 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 717. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.17, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 718. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.18, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.19 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.302. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.302, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.20, which is identical to amendment 7.303. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.20, tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendment 7.303, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.304.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u308	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u310	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 7.304 is extremely important. Paragraph 1 (e) regulates the manner in which opinions are acquired by the Conference of Services with regard to the plan of measures, which replaces the industrial plan. At one point it is written that the non-expression of an opinion is a favourable opinion, according to the famous principle of silence-consensus. Silence-consent, in a situation of extreme seriousness from the environmental and health point of view, is the most deleterious thing, because the two opinions that are requested are that of the commissioner - who coordinates the plan and therefore must give it by force - and that of the Region of Puglia. At a time when the Region of Puglia was not to express its opinion, it would automatically be understood as a favourable opinion. This is truly death for an entire city: Remember that! [[Applause from the M5S Group: Nominal vote by simultaneous vote]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u311	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.304, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.21, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.22, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.305. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.305, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.23, which is essentially the same as amendment 7.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.23, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 7.24, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u312	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u314	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I cannot understand what is wrong with Amendment 7.25. It states that the criterion of environmental and country protection is pre-eminent in the assessment of such measures compared to the economic criterion of the measure. There is therefore a criterion of common sense, which is to be considered a primary obligation when assessing projects and authorization measures to be implemented. If this amendment is not adopted, it will mean that, as usual, you put vile money in front of everything, even in front of environmental protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u315	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.25, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.26, tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 7.306 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 727. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.27, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 7.28 and 7.29 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.30, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.0.1 has been changed to agenda G7.0.1 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u316	Mr President, Amendment 8,301 stems from the fact that we are very attentive not only to the environmental situation in the Ilva plant in Taranto, but also to the areas surrounding the plant. For example, we have pointed out that we pay great attention to the areas related to primary schools "Deledda" and "De Carolis." On the basis of this amendment, which will probably not be voted on, we have tabled a day which we will discuss in detail to see whether or not it can be accepted. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u317	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u318	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u319	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 8. I give a favourable opinion on the agenda G8.100, G8.101 (text 2), although it is already included in the so-called Italy, G8.102 and G8.103 destination measure. I give a favourable opinion, following the inclusion of G8.104 and G8.105 into the system of the formula to assess the appropriateness of G8.104 and G8.105 agendas. I therefore object to the agenda G8.106 and G8.108. Finally, I am in favour of the agenda G8.107, G8.109 (text 2) and G8.110.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u320	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u321	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u323	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have listened to the rapporteur's opinion on the G8.103 agenda and I am happy and pleased to know that the Porto Marghera area has also been considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u324	We rejoice in your happiness, Senator Biinella. You see that sometimes you don't get a favourable opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u327	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u328	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Martelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on Amendment 8,300. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8.1 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.2 tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 8,301 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.100, G8.101, G8.102 and G8.103 will not be put to the vote. Do you agree with the rewording of agendas G8.104 and G8.105 proposed by the rapporteur, Senator Arrigoni? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G8.104 (text 2) and G8.105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Do you insist on the vote on the agenda G8106, Senator Martelli?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u329	Yes, Mr President, I insist and will also make an explanation of vote. Why do I refuse to insert the formula into the device to assess whether it is appropriate to do so? Because this agenda is already an evaluation...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u330	Senator Martelli, an opinion has been expressed against this agenda and no rewording has been proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u331	MARTELLI (M5S). Can I ask the Government why, since it was proposed in the Commission yesterday to include the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to"? I would like to know why the opinion has changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u332	Sometimes the night brings second thoughts, Senator Martelli. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G8106 agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G8.106, tabled by Senator Martelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.107 will not be put to the vote. Do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.108, Senator Lucidi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u333	Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G8.108, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G8.109 (text 2) and G8.110 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u334	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u335	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u336	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Nugnes and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 9.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1275 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 9.0.1 is impervious. We have thus concluded the examination of the amendments. We shall resume with explanations of vote this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u339	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted against in the vote No 2 of the measure in question in order to remain in the minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Cuomo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u340	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u342	SOLLO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank everyone. I have tried to be available to everyone on this measure, and I hope I have lived up to it. I once again thank the President and the members of the 13th Commission, the Parent Company and the officials. I would particularly like to thank you, Mr President, for in my opinion you and I together - as we have seen - are a good couple! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u343	You know, when it comes to the Land of Fires, I'm always on the fire. But, rapporteur, thanks are desirable and it is good to do so after Parliament has voted: there is still time for the measure to fail it! SOLLO, rapporteur. I've done my job: now it's up to the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're scaramantically coming from a certain area, you should teach me. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u344	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u345	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u346	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, he hanged himself in his home in Afragola, Giuseppe De Crescenzo, forty-three years old, father of two children. He was a laborer and a trade union activist in the logistics department of FIAT in Nola. I learn that it was in the integration fund at zero hours for many years, that is since it had been transferred from the FIAT of Pomigliano d'Arco to the logistic department of Nola. I don't think I have to add any more words to this tragedy. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, please: Senator Barozzino is talking about a dramatic case. Please have a little respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u348	Please continue, Senator Barozzino. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I said that I must not add more words to this tragedy, because it serves little or nothing. Instead, we need the facts and we need politics, and therefore all of us, or those who are there, to take seriously the theme of work, deliberately abandoned for too long: we need a job that restores dignity to all workers, and therefore to the country. Only in this way will it be possible to contribute seriously to putting an end to these continuous evil events. I would point out - unfortunately in the indifference of this House - that, unlike so many others who have had a different life path, I know the world of work very well and, fortunately or unfortunately (depending on the points of view), not in a virtual way. For this reason, I believe that we need a real and profound reflection on what is happening in Italy. Of course, I extend my condolences and all my solidarity to the family. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u349	The Presidency joins in mourning and apologizes for the buzz and indifference of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u350	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u351	He has the right to do so, but very briefly because he is called to the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u352	PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, for the sound southern flexibility. I would like to make my own Senator Barozzino's appeal and express my closeness to the family of that worker who from Pomigliano d'Arco, we can say, was deported to Nola. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u355	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to ask the answer to Question 3 00362, addressed to the Minister of Justice, and to Question 3 00363, addressed to the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities, both of which have the same object, i.e. the effects resulting from the implementation of Legislative Decree No 156 of 2012, which redesigned the judicial districts. The questions concern the accession to the court of Lucca of the detached section of Viareggio, moreover of new construction and property of the Municipality. To make room for the suppressed detached section of Versilia, there was a real architectural ruin of the splendid palace occupied by the court, for the recovery of which huge sums had been spent. I think of the division of the beautiful library with plasterboard walls, the creation of mini-offices inside the halls of the palace that have defaced the arches of the ceilings, and the new rooms created close to the floor where the elevators overlook. It is asked to know whether the Ministry intends to intervene in order to verify whether the minimum requirements of agibility and therefore safety and hygiene for the citizens of Versilia and Lucchesia, for the workers of the court, for the members of the attorney and for the court itself, and how the Superintendence has been able to authorize such destruction. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u356	It will be the Presidency's responsibility to report on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u357	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u358	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u359	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to highlight a very serious situation in Pescara yesterday, and I take the floor briefly to put to the attention of this House the difficult situation that thousands of workers and families in Abruzzo are experiencing. They are victims of the cuts to the funds of the integration fund by way of derogation; they will not be able to count on the only source of income on which they relied on the lack of financial resources to be allocated to the shock absorbers by way of derogation for the year 2013. This is a problem already dealt with in the State-Regions Conference on 19 December, when it was highlighted by the Regions that the resources allocated for 2013 were insufficient for this purpose. As far as Abruzzo is concerned, approximately €68.5 million have been allocated specifically, which are not sufficient to guarantee the requests for integration and mobility by way of derogation submitted by 31 December 2013. According to Italy's data, in fact, additional requests for 47 million euros would be missed. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen on the left and right, you have not yet noticed the damage you have done in recent years. Your bad government has already made Abruzzo pay for the closure of two excellent industries such as Sixty and Micron. We can't afford any more losses. The situation is extremely serious, ladies and gentlemen, because behind this harsh reality there are families, parents who must bravely face the situation of very little liquidity and job losses every day. Just yesterday I participated in the meeting promoted by the intervention committee for corporate crises in the sector of the Abruzzo Region, meeting to which 21 Abruzzo parliamentarians were invited; but to the request for help of companies and workers 20 did not respond. I witnessed the embarrassment and dismay of the participants, shocked by the absence of all Abruzzo's politics. Democratic Party, Civic Choice, Forza Italia, New Right Center have decided not to attend this important meeting. On the other hand, they are good at filling their mouths with proclamations and promises in the crowded conventions and TV lounges where the audience is high and the popularity is assured. You've been forgetting too long... president. Conclude, Senator Blondo. BLUNDO (M5S). ...that the answers to the problems of the Italian citizens of Abruzzo should be given concretely in Parliament. I have always carried out a citizen's policy for the citizens by bringing their voices and their problems to this House. That is why I felt the moral duty to be present at yesterday's meeting and to bring their cry for help here. I want to stress, starting with the conclusion... president. No, you have to finish, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). I call on you, Mr President, to promote the Government, highlighting the serious situation I experienced yesterday in Pescara, so that it can produce the necessary acts to remove the serious employment situation. I'm also producing acts to commit the government and respond immediately. I hope that I will not be alone again in the production of these acts and in their vote. I therefore ask my Abruzzo colleagues: let us all commit ourselves together, but let us do so without making too much talk. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-183.ana.u360	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.24 p.m.
