ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) on the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and on the European coordination of economic reform and growth policies, to which the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Moavero Milanesi, will reply. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. Let us now turn to the questions on the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for European Affairs for two minutes each. The Minister will then respond for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u6	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, Minister, thank you for this time of intercourse. We are entering a stage of preparation for the European Semester, and I believe that there are great expectations on the part of citizens. I have just finished a meeting with a group of high school students, who expressed at the same time the hope for a more integrated Europe, but also a little the risk of a disillusionment for the treatment that seems to be reserved for our country, even at European level and not only at international level, as we have seen this morning with the debate on the issue of the United Nations position. In the programmatic report that the Government has prepared there are defined instruments of solidarity, that would aim to create a fiscal capacity, that is an economic ecosystem in which the different governments could obtain, through these partnerships for the development, conditions of greater favor for the realization of some reforms. Somehow, there would be an alliance or partnership between Europe and the governments of individual countries, to achieve those conditions that could be the best medicine, the best antidote to this sense of disillusionment and abandonment that many of us have. I wonder, however, what are the real possibilities for these instruments to be implemented and what are the conditions under which you believe, or the Italian Government considers, that Italy can benefit from these measures. I wonder whether these are measures which involve some sort of transfer of sovereignty or whether they are measures in which our full sovereignty... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u9	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the subject on the agenda is of paramount importance to us, especially at this time of confusion, in which we cannot escape from a necessary reflection, which will probably also impact on the Minister's answers to some of our questions. We know that in the second half of this year Italy will chair the Council of the European Union. It is a profoundly significant role, considering the impossibility of not approaching this importance of role and this showcase, not only domestic or community, but also international, in which our country will be set, to this great opportunity and together responsibility, a very delicate phase that our country is experiencing, both in terms of the country system, and in terms of government, politically certainly, but also and above all from the economic and social point of view. The occasion will be resumed, Minister, only in 14 years' time. So this meeting with Europe is an opportunity that we cannot miss. Mr Cociancich, who preceded me, referred to the programme that has already been prepared and exploded by the Government, in particular by his Dicastery, and shared by his colleagues Ministers ratione materiae. But there must be - I imagine - an instrumental force and a selection in the strength of this instrumentalist that will lead some of these instruments to be privileged over others. So our question, the question that I ask you, Minister, on behalf of my movement, is: what instruments and - let me, without controversy - by what force of democratic and political legitimacy will Italy bring its presence in Europe?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u12	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, Minister, following the recent words of President Napolitano in Strasbourg, in which he has rejected austerity at all costs and in which he has spoken of a distrust in the European Union which - I quote - lies in the worsening living conditions (...) in most of the Member States of the Union, we come to ask you what actions can be taken at European level to combat what is becoming more and more a social emergency: I am referring to the fight against poverty, and therefore not to the desirable fight against unemployment. We cannot hide that even those in employment now represent categories classified as poor. Employment is no longer an adequate income guarantee. Single income families and numerous more and more often slip into poverty. We in the 5 Star Movement have proposed an instrument such as citizenship income based on precise criteria linked to the ISEE and with the imposition of certain obligations to maintain this right. In Europe there are those who propose the much more ambitious UBI (unconditional basic income), which provides for a universal income linked simply to European nationality. The current government only proposes insufficient social cards or little more, the so-called experimentation of active inclusion for the fight against extreme poverty. All this is written in the programme report already mentioned. Our question therefore relates to the initiatives that our Government can reasonably expect to put in place in Europe. We believe that despite the relatively small European budget, some concrete action can be taken to combat poverty and produce a more equitable redistribution of income among citizens. Has Italy, in view of the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union, prepared any specific proposals? Or do we have to resign ourselves to an increasingly low wage chase to counter competition from other countries on labour costs?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u15	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, Minister, on 28 February the day of rare diseases will be celebrated worldwide. A disease is defined as rare when its prevalence, understood as the number of cases in a given population, does not exceed a certain threshold. In Europe, the threshold is set at 0.05% of the population, i.e. 5 out of 10,000 people. Rare diseases known and diagnosed range from 7,000 to 8,000, and this - we have to say - also through scientific research. International cooperation and cooperation are now being put at the centre and indicated as the main means to best study the 7,000 rare diseases. Any cooperation and cooperation, therefore, is very valuable. The cross-border medicine initiative will provide not only the movement of goods, but also the opportunity for all citizens to take care of themselves in the countries of the European Union. Cross-border medicine will be an important opportunity, but it will have to be subject to the internal rules of each individual state, and the choice of treatment will not be totally free. We will therefore have the opportunity, during the Italian semester, to open a free zone for the rare disease sector in order to try to overcome the constraints that Member States will apply on cross-border medicine, in order to create a diagnostic, therapeutic and privileged care path for these patients. Does the Government not consider at this point, through a political initiative during the six months of its presidency, to study, together with the other partners, a solution to facilitate all patients suffering from rare diseases on European territory?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u18	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, it is well known that the euro since its entry into force has created a European economic system that does not have the same value for all countries. We have long wondered about the usefulness of this system and, above all, how it can or should be changed in order to make possible a Europe that is not as odd as the one we are living. Over the years we have seen countries consolidate their economic reality. We know that the entry into force of the euro in our country has been a period of severe recession. We believe that the main rules, the basic rules and the Treaties that underpin the entry into force of the euro should be revised. On this we want a clear and serious commitment from the Government during the Italian Presidency. Germany does its own interests, France is no less, the other European countries protect their own economy. Italy, on the other hand, stands at the window watching. Perhaps also because in our country there has always been an enthusiastic left of Europe that also struggles to make self-criticism regarding the choices that time seems to have overcome in an indisputable way. We therefore ask you, Minister, even at a time of difficulty when some funambolos would like to replace the government in the running, to express a position, aware that the work done in these months will certainly be (it is necessarily) the basis of the work that in the Italian semester, whoever will be presiding at it, will have to face.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u21	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, as you said, the six-month Presidency for Italy is a great opportunity not to be missed in order to bring to Europe the innovative potential of our country. Moreover, the choices we will be able to make during the six months will affect the lives of the citizens of the Union itself for decades. With this in mind, in addition to the major macroeconomic objectives set out in the 2014 Objective programme, I believe it is desirable that there should also be room for simplification initiatives among the issues that will be addressed, as well as for the rationalisation of the mobility dynamics of European citizens. I refer in particular to the exploitation of so-called material citizenship, which affects a large part of Europe's citizens and cannot be tied to the bureaucratic limits of individual states. Therefore, in this perspective it would be appropriate to outline innovative policies to support youth mobility, and not only, as a response to a growing phenomenon that still sees Italy as a land of emigration, although of a different social target. In line with this, it would be appropriate to talk about the European identity card, a document which, in addition to harmonizing itself with the renewed mobility needs, will in fact make the lives of citizens and businesses easier, shortening the time for the acquisition of documentation in the receiving territories. This new requirement is also placed in a scenario known to all, concerning the objective impossibility on the part of our consular structures to take full responsibility for the services to our compatriots. A further element of interest must be sought in the need to proceed with a clear discipline on the equivalence of qualifications, which in my opinion is the key to improving the dynamics of European professional mobility. I would therefore like to know whether the Government intends to take charge of these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u24	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, Minister, youth unemployment in Europe is now approaching the threshold of 6 million young people, almost a quarter of the young people on the continent. In Italy the percentage rises to a dramatic 40%, and even higher is the threshold in the Mezzogiorno. It goes without saying that this issue must be addressed at European level, not least because youth unemployment is the backdrop of euroscepticism and populism, and we believe that the Italian Government should make this issue a pillar of its action in the Presidency of the European Council. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what initiatives the Government intends to take in this regard with particular focus on the Youth Guarantee programme, the funds to promote it. I would add that for Italy the Youth Guarantee is a necessary bet, especially considering that for example the discrepancy between the skills required by the southern companies and those possessed by the young people is among the highest in Europe: in other words, there are many companies that could hire, but they do not find personnel with the appropriate qualification, and it is on this front that the first efforts should be concentrated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for European Affairs, Mr Moavero Milanesi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u25	Mr President, Senators and Senators, all of these are very important issues that you have touched on on on time with regard to the period of the Italian semester, which, as has also been said, represents a showcase, an important opportunity: the last time was in 2003 and the next time (enlargements of the European Union allowing) will not be before 2029, so it is time horizons that lead us to look into the future. It is therefore absolutely necessary to look at the present, and this must be the commitment not only of the Government, but of Parliament and of the whole country system. I think that there is already an excellent catalogue of measures in the numbering of the various potentially priority initiatives you have highlighted. I would like to say at once that there will be a way of building something that can already be achieved during the six months, both as a proposal and, in some cases, as a result. Turning to the individual questions, I would start from a few points that make people think more closely, the immediate perception that citizens can have of a Europe that is not only made up of numbers and parameters, but also very concrete initiatives. I believe that in the questions that have been raised on the issue of rare diseases there is a very relevant answer ground. We have recently started (and we are already at an advanced stage: it should end in the first days of March) the completion of the legislative process for the transposition of two important directives: one is the one for cross-border care, to which Senator Bianconi referred, the other is the one concerning the recognition of medical recipes also cross-border for the purpose of reimbursement through national systems. This is a very important element because it offers a market (say in quotes, but we could also remove them) of the potential of care assisted by national welfare systems that previously did not exist. This can be particularly important for rare diseases. More can be done. The idea of taking forward new initiatives that can create social security lanes is excellent and I think it is an area in which we have to take care of it. Among other things, the emulation that comes from the existence of more European offerings can serve to improve our structures and potential on the spot. This also applies to elements related to material citizenship, to resume terminology. We know of the right to vote, the right to move and reside freely, but we can recall a number of other elements that bridge initiatives for young people. I am referring to the well-known Erasmus programme: we must not forget that it has been refinanced by strengthening it when it was even in danger of reducing funds. We must also remember the Leonardo programme, which is aimed at an even younger audience, and an overall modernisation of our education systems, which is no longer elusive: here, too, emulation is worth the comparison at European level. However, in the current situation, these very days there are European days in number 112. It may seem trivial, but having a single number that can be used anywhere in the territory of the European Union for emergency calls can give a sense of greater security to the citizen. It is important to implement this. We are all motivated, both as a Parliament and as a Government, to speed up the process of implementing directives on the mutual recognition of diplomas and diplomas. This can be an interesting element also to address that theme dramatically accentuated in the last months of poverty, the increase in situations of real misery - we must not be afraid of the words - that are manifesting in all countries, even in those seemingly more flourishing and solid than ours. I believe that, in this respect, a number of elements found in the existing funds at EU budget level - I am thinking primarily of the Structural Funds, but also of the research funds that can help by introducing inclusive instruments to overcome exclusion, which often accompanies situations of poverty - can offer an important ground for action, on which, of course, we can bring an emphasis during our six-month term. We also have a number of elements that lead back to the dichotomy between austerity measures and growth and reform measures. In this respect, I believe that specific action, on which I have personally worked very hard in recent months, with the aim of bringing to fruition the initiative at the October European Council, as envisaged by the last European Council, which referred the issue of so-called partnerships for growth, employment and competitiveness precisely to the October European Council, can be a very interesting element. The idea is to structure an instrument related to the term of solidarity that stimulates reforms in different countries. All countries need reforms: we need them and we constantly talk about them, and perhaps, in addition to talking about them, it is important to move concretely to reality; other countries also need them. An interview of about a month and a half ago by the President of the Bundesbank Weidmann at... Il Sole 24 Ore (Il Sole 24 Ore) clarified how, from his point of view, Germany itself needs important reforms, even if others have implemented them. A mechanism that favours them through financial and non-financial incentives can really be a turning point, because the sum of the non-reforms in the various European States translates into an overall European weakness. This weakness is attributed from time to time to elements of political divergence between governments or, perhaps, to the euro, forgetting those positive elements of being tied to a strong currency for a country that needs a strong import of raw materials for its industrial activity. However, this partnership mechanism can undoubtedly represent an important turning point in bringing about a reunion of the element of reforms and encouraging reforms, solidarity and commitment of States to carry them forward together, even if each of them voluntarily within the framework of its characteristics. As far as the possibility of amending the Treaties is concerned, I would say that we must distinguish. First of all, there are the intergovernmental treaties: the best known example, which we are always talking about, is the fiscal compact. Again, however, in addition to talking about it, I would recommend reading the fiscal compact. The legal rules and the Treaties are also there to be interpreted in their application and, in the eyes of a jurist, the fiscal compact contains a number of elements of guarantee and flexibility that are perhaps too often forgotten. It should therefore be examined. It is, however, a treaty which, like all the Treaties, can be amended. I would remind you that it has been signed by 25 States, and the agreement of these States should therefore be made. However, a change is conceivable, but before we talk about the amendment, I would like to talk about an application, using those elements which this Treaty itself, too often presented in a Manichaean way, contains. These elements, for example, take back in full that reference to the relevant factors that in October 2011 the then Italian Government obtained in the signing of the so-called six pack, which were later defended in the continuity of government, which I consider to be commendable, by the next Government in the context of collation within the fiscal compact. Then there is the fundamental Treaty, the founding Treaty of the European Union, which contains the rules on the euro. The economic crisis has shown at the same time elements of adaptability, which have been used, and elements which undoubtedly pose a question of change. The time will come; we must get out of the European crisis and the global economic crisis before we tackle the issue of amending the fundamental Treaties, but this too is much more in the air today than it was years ago, before the crisis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u28	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, Minister, I very much welcome this response, both for the European enthusiasm that inspires and supports it, and for your reference to the practicality of the effects that the European solidarity strategy can have on the lives of citizens. I therefore hope that the Italian Government's action in this six-month period will, above all, give real concreteness and measure to all Italian citizens of the added value of being European citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u31	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, I will of course have to be as telegraphic as my colleagues. I cannot be satisfied with your answer and I regret not having the opportunity to tell you all the reasons. This is an answer that, to be lapidary, does not indicate anything new under the sun. You mentioned a number of actions; you started with Youth Guarantee, which is a guarantee for youth work, through Erasmus and Leonardo training projects. Unfortunately, however, these issues have already been dealt with in Europe and Europe, without being able to eliminate that aura, that hood of Euroscepticism that sometimes fails to explain to the citizens why we have to stay in Europe and that very often makes us feel more creditors than debtors to Europe. Minister, I would have liked to hear something more innovative from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u34	Orellana (M5S). Minister, I represent my partial satisfaction with your reply. On the one hand, I note that you are rightly not afraid of those words which are increasingly widespread in European countries and which I would like to call by their name: poverty and misery. However, it did not seem to me to point out in his words that Italy was planning and proactive, but - allow me - a simplistic reference to structural funds and research funds. Perhaps Italy, the founding country of the European Union, which will soon be presiding over, could have more imagination in proposing instruments that bring everyone together. There are huge disparities between European countries in the fight against poverty and some major regressions in welfare policies, in Greece and in other countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u37	WHITE (NCD). Minister, thank you for your sensitivity and commitment. I want to remind you that we are talking about 36 million people suffering from rare diseases in Europe, 2 million in Italy, for 7,000 diseases with often incomprehensible and unpronounceable names. The fact is that 70 percent of these patients are children. Often these diseases are called orphan diseases. Through our efforts, we try to make them a little less orphan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u40	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, in 1999 a family with an income, received by at least one family member, of less than 2 million lire, was a family that was doing well. Today a family with an income of 1,000 euros does not make it. That's the only way you can tell something's not working. A wish and a prayer: do not end up like the question of the Marò, underestimated and with the risk that our citizens, the whole country, remain prisoners of a euro to which we do not want to be subject and from which we do not want to be subjugated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u43	DI BIAGIO (PI). Minister, I believe it is useful to create the conditions for turning a proposal into a genuine initiative in support of the new European integration processes that can therefore start from the mobility of individual citizens. A process of integration that can be based on different assumptions such as the simplification, bureaucratic and administrative, of the process of belonging to a wide region such as Europe, beyond national borders and related constraints. Surely Europe in 2014 is conditioned by a changing cultural, historical and social scenario, and precisely because of this we should be able to contextualize every initiative and identify those solutions that are more responding to completely new demands. I therefore believe that this opportunity represents a significant opportunity for Italy. It would therefore be important to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by this six-month period, albeit with all the legislative limitations resulting from the renewal of the Commission's constituent bodies. We are sure that there is at the moment all the potential to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u46	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, I welcome the effort as well as the Minister's response and I stress the need for an extraordinary commitment to design and management, especially given that, with few exceptions, our very weak regional structures do not seem to be able to stand the test for the European Youth Employment Programme. And everything will depend on its implementation in the various regional contexts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u47	Let us now turn to questions concerning European coordination of economic reform and growth policies, which will be answered by the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Moavero Milanesi. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for European Affairs for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u50	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, Minister, I would like to remind you that a few days ago the stakeholder conference on the European Strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian Region was held in Athens. Commissioner Maria Damanaki also spoke, who reminded us that the sector that concerns the Mediterranean and its growth, which we call the blue economy, has a value of about 21 billion. It is therefore an area of absolute importance, for which commitments are foreseen in the field of research and the populations living at sea. This is an area that is often forgotten in our debate, and I believe that special attention should be paid to it, given the importance Europe attaches to this dimension. I would like to ask what initiatives the Italian Government intends to take to support blue growth, blue growth, especially in the context of the European Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, there are certainly only a few minutes. However, I want to tell you - as everyone says - that austerity is dying and that this austerity for us has become an emergency: there are no more words, we need to act immediately, because we cannot imagine going on like this. The Italian Presidency semester is a clear opportunity, but for Italy it is a matter of life or death, it is useless that we take ourselves around: or we get out of it already starting with infrastructure works to apply and to ask that a golden rule be applied or we do not come out of it, at least for infrastructure works (and it is tens of billions, as you know). If we do not use all the European resources, which we use only 50%, we are no longer there. We cannot imagine going on like this, with a policy that favours only the strong country, which at the end of the day is only one, namely Germany, which, as you will know, got into debt in the years 1999-2011, and then immediately decided to tighten the belt, once all the investments were made. That is the fact: this weak policy no longer serves anyone; or we have the courage to say what we need and that it is our right or we are out and we are really in danger of having enormous social problems, which may be underestimated. This is no longer possible: it is a final battle, which applies to us, but to the three quarters of Europe, and you know it better than I do. Either there is concrete action or we are making fun of it: that is the reality of this Europe - it is being said - that it is Germanic and nothing else, and of these United States of Europe that are not being made (also because, as we have already said, we do not want the United States of Germany). Either this is done or we are out: that is the commitment I ask our Government and also our future President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u54	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, Minister, the Treaties of the European Union, which have been signed and incorporated into our Constitution in a hurry, in our view, irresponsible, are in fact choking our economy and our social apparatus. These Treaties, in fact, do not allow us economic flexibility linked to internal indicators, but they keep us tied to the chain of decisions of intergovernmental governance. Today, therefore, we find ourselves with a European Stability Mechanism which we must finance irrevocablely and unconditionally, regardless of the internal economic conditions that we will face. The 15 billion in advance share over five years, in fact, simply guarantees us the right to vote within governance, but it does not give us the real opportunity to draw on the fund. In fact, if Italy is in danger of national and European stability, it will only be able to obtain the funds by paying interest (i.e. double expenditure). The ESM is flanked by the fiscal compact, which requires us to reduce the public-GDP debt ratio from the current 140% (we all know this already) to 60% in twenty years. In a nutshell, fiscal compact and MES, despite the possible flexibility cited by the Minister, will in fact cost our country tens of billions of euros (about 50 billion a year, a figure that we consider absolutely unsustainable with a country to collapse, like ours). Now, the questions that I ask you, and which the 5 Star Movement addresses to you, are these: how does the Minister think that we can ever face a growth in solidarity under these conditions? What kind of action are you going to propose to the European Commission and the other bodies of the European Union to revise these Treaties - if you are going to do so - and to make them more direct to the real economy, to the citizens, and certainly much less to finance?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u57	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, Minister, following the global economic crisis that began in 2009, the European Union considered it essential to strengthen the coordination of the economic policies of its Member States, in order to promote a new growth season. These policies appear, however, rather focused on the internal market and, in the non-European projection, towards the continental markets of the East. Italy's interest, in its geographical, historical, economic and cultural dimension, is more projected towards the Mediterranean area, which undoubtedly represents, especially for the future, an area of great development, indispensable for the economic expansion of our country. We therefore ask you, also with reference to the next Italian Presidency, if you do not think that our country should not promote and support specific policies in Europe devoted primarily to the Mediterranean area, especially at this time when in many states in this region you still suffer the political consequences of the so-called Arab Spring. If Italy does not consider it appropriate to urge, in particular, the immediate resumption of negotiations to simplify and rationalise the trade and customs tariff regime through the conclusion of specific bilateral treaties between the European Union and the countries of North Africa similar to agreements that have recently been defined - especially in the agri-food sector - with Oceanic countries (remember Kenya, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar) that already allow Italian companies to process and market products, in particular belonging to the fish sector, overcoming any previous penalty. This is because it appears that negotiations with the Mediterranean countries (I would like to say, for example, Tunisia) have been suspended for over two years, precisely because of the recalled and not yet completed political uncertainties due to the turbulence of the Arab Spring.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u60	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, in the pre-euro period from 1989 to 2000, the German trade balance was in red for 126 billion euros today. Since the entry into force of the euro, the German trade balance has been positive by 1,791 billion, and again this year, on the year that has just ended, it has recorded a positive balance of 200 billion euros. Our country has had reverse numbers. Before the entry into force of the single currency, the balance of the Italian trade balance was positive, while subsequently it was decreasing more and more. It is clear that to support the economy we need strong finance, but we also need an industrial system that is not choked by finance itself. What appears instead from the system currently built in Europe is a Germany that manages to monopolize the whole financial system, making it revolve around its own industries, thus making everything much more difficult for other countries (like ours, which has a different history). This must certainly be done in the field of action. We are well aware that the Commission's latest calls to Germany have not had any effect either. If there is no strong voice to defend our industries, this will be an increasingly impoverished country. And it is not with the advent of foreign capital that one is saved, because one loses also the ability to conduct his own enterprise, which is simply expropriated little at a time. On this we want a clear stance from the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u63	DI BIAGIO (PI). Minister, we all know that growth policies cannot be separated from public finance consolidation policies. The consolidation of public finances is a necessary condition for achieving a process of economic development, but, as President Napolitano said in his speech in Brussels, today we have a problem of austerity, in order to deal with which we must firmly aim for the reindustrialisation of Europe and Italy in particular. If companies do not produce wealth, there is no wealth to redistribute. An industrial compact is needed, enabling Italy to achieve the European target of 20% manufacturing by 2020 and Europe to rediscover a real industrial plan. Let us remember that industry in Europe creates one in every four jobs (43 million jobs in all), feeds 75% of EU exports and finances 80% of research and development. My hope, Minister, is that we do not confine ourselves to statements of principle, but we commit ourselves to ensuring true coherence of policies on research, infrastructure, energy, environment and education with the aim of reindustrialisation. We therefore ask you what is the Italian agenda dedicated to industry in the context of European coordination of economic policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u66	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, Minister, without too many words, I make a very simple point. We are a technically failed country, even if the old and new prophets who in these hours face to rule Italy do not have the courage to say so. We must return, according to the Maastricht Treaty, some EUR 50 billion per year which, together with the 85 interest rates, ends up representing a figure that can only be honoured by doing social butchery or by increasing taxes on productive classes to a great extent. It is good for viewers to know that, in the debt-to-GDP ratio, the implicit debt, i.e. the amount of money the State spends on care, health care and pensions, is not counted. In conclusion, I want to show you this abstruse table, which would tremble the wrists also to Renato Caccioppoli, the great Neapolitan mathematician, who represents the abstruse calculation by which we reach the determination of GDP. If we are not able to throw away the formulas and impose a policy that simply says that we are not willing to kill the Italian people in order to satisfy Mrs Merkel's teutonic claims and if we do not have the political capacity to renegotiate this past knot, we will never get out of the economic crisis we have fallen into. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Moavero Milanesi, to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u67	Mr President, Senators, Senators, here too, questions have been asked which I would say are very important for the punctuality of the issues and the issues that have been raised. I shall try to get back to the various points that have been raised as systematically as possible. I would like to start with the question of austerity and link it with what I said earlier on on how to overcome the situation of difficulties through actions that are conducive to growth and job creation. The economic and financial crisis is not born in Europe, it is not born in our country, but it is born in the United States in the period of the search for products at risk, that could allow investors to have higher interest rates (among the investors we include savers: we do not think only of categories far from our daily). The crisis also arises from a policy, in the United States, once again, of easy real estate loans, of granting credit to people who were not able to offer all the guarantees. This deflagration situation in the United States is transmitted, through the countries that we sometimes quickly define as an Anglo-Saxon economy, in Europe, where it assumes a particular characteristic: the unfinished on the path of finalization of the so-called Economic and Monetary Union make the differences in the state of the public accounts between the various countries become evident and create national situations more at risk. Our country, in particular, for a few decades, more precisely since the eighties, basically, bears an extremely high public debt, which then had, during the years 2000, a swinging trend. This is a burden which, unfortunately, the generations relative to the present, because we are talking about a period of thirty years, have passed on to the present ones. I believe that when we talk about commitments certainly made in Europe, but I also believe that those who have responsibilities of government and representation of citizens vis-à-vis their own country, to keep their accounts in balance, to contain their annual debt and to try to reduce the total public debt, we talk about commitments that any mother or father of a family would assume in a situation of difficulty of his family. Certainly, at European level, these commitments stem from treaties and rules that seek to create convergence between countries on the same result. This convergence, in a way, has also necessarily created the adoption of a single currency. Let us not forget that at the time of entry into the common use of the euro as a single currency for a considerable number of European countries, a period of low interest rates is also paid, of course for those who invested - and this has led to the production of high-risk financial products, aimed at increasing their interest rates - but also for those who were in debt. This element has perhaps been more perceived by some countries, which have faced reform paths during the most favourable period from the financial point of view, i.e. from the point of view of interest rates and therefore of the cost of investments and reforms. Unfortunately, in this period, not all countries have faced reforms with the same incisiveness. To mention names and surnames, most international studies, for example, recognize Germany as having carried out more reforms than other European countries, and in particular our own. At a time when interest rates are contracting again, I believe we must invest in reforms. Here too, what I said in the previous answer is worthwhile: the possibility of receiving incentives, which can be translated into forms of solidarity, in the face of commitments to reform, is very important. Likewise, I wouldn't confuse the figures too much. When we talk, for example, of a cost of about EUR 40 or 45 billion - or perhaps more - for the reduction of public debt, we are talking about the commitment, actually contained in the regulations of October 2011 and taken up by the so-called Fiscal Compact Treaty, to reduce public debt from 2015. However, in relation to this commitment, those elements of flexibility to which I referred are valid: I would therefore ask them to examine them. Other factors, such as the importance of private debt and investment expenditure, are mentioned. The fundamental European Treaty itself, on public debt, on stock, on the total amount of public debt, is less inflexible than on the annual deficit, which is the power tap of public debt. There is therefore a possibility of choosing public policy and economic policy, which it notes for the Government and also for Parliament and for parliamentary support, between greater or lesser control of the annual deficit and greater or less control of the debt. We are also talking about very different orders of magnitude, in terms of billions of euros. We have debated for weeks, in Parliament and at the level of government, a question of the amount of a few billion, for a deficit of a little greater or a little less than the 3% of GDP parameter. Instead, we are talking about a few tens of billions - probably EUR 45 billion - in terms of reducing public debt. That is where I see a particular interest in this reform action that can be considered going in that direction. The golden rule identifies the possibility of decommissioning productive public investment, in particular from the calculation of the annual deficit parameter. As a government, we are very committed - and I personally am - to this debate: we have also identified the concept of productive public investment, linked to the co-financing of European funds, which, if diluted in the approximately seven years of the European budget, represents an expenditure of about EUR 10-12 billion. This includes investments at the level of the Structural Funds and also at the level of interconnection infrastructure, transport, energy and telecommunications. It is good to always look at the additional results that can be obtained, but sometimes we also look at the results obtained. We managed to achieve - and it was essentially an Italian battle of commitment - the possibility that, below 3%, the difference between the nominal deficit and this 3% ceiling could actually be spent on productive public investment and, in particular, on the cofinancing of the structural funds. This means that if we could, for example, recover that 2.5% annual deficit level in 2014, we could spend about 8-9 billion; if we were 2.7 percent, we could spend 3. This is already a real thing, already usable and it is a result obtained. It must not make us forget the next stage, but rather constitute the trampoline for relaunching. Maybe it's not the golden rule in the proper sense, but if I can stay in terminology, it's quite gold plated too. There are therefore very concrete possibilities and there is the possibility of making better use of that dividend which gives stability to a currency such as the euro, which has its constraints, but, I repeat, also its opportunities. This does not mean that in many Member States the changeover from the national currency to the euro coincided with a price restructuring which did not always correspond to the exchange rate that was imagined. At European level, we believe that we must commit ourselves to a more open single market, first of all in the industrial sector, where Italy is not far from the target of 20% of GDP by 2020; in the energy sector; in the digital economy, digitalisation, which can give a lot of space to micro and small enterprises that through the telematic market can access more consumers; in the green economy, in the environmental economy. In this respect, just to give one example, we have an infringement procedure concerning the cleaning of waste water for a considerable number of Italian municipalities. We are investing not only in equalizing ourselves with the frankly unpleasant infringement procedure and getting out of it, but also in offering employment opportunities to small and medium-sized local enterprises, because to do such work there it is difficult to look beyond companies operating on the territory. This is an example, but a great many others can be made. We rethink the structuring of the hydroelectric concession companies of Northern Italy. We have a very important hydroelectric potential and reality, parcelled between Provinces, Municipalities and Regions in an incredible way. The task is of the local authorities, but let us also rethink these structures, we reason in terms of a modern industrial policy that really looks at an innovative potential for development of the country. This leads to broadening the look at the Mediterranean, which is the southern border of our country, but it is also the southern border of Europe. I have to say that the terrible tragedy that has taken place off the island of Lampedusa has led, and perhaps we have to read it as a posthumous tribute to the victims, to a reorganization of the European Union's attention to the Mediterranean in the broad sense and, in particular, to the issue of migration flows, which for the first time since the 1990s has returned as the central theme of the European Councils, and will be discussed at the June European Council. The Mediterranean, however, is not only migration, even if migration to the Mediterranean often results in tragedy: it is free trade agreements; they are agreements for which I fully welcome the call to stimulate a renegotiation, which will be a priority during our six-month period; they are agreements that can enable not only our country, but the entire European Union, to re-focus on this southern border, of which we become, by geopolitical location, an indispensable pivot. That is also why we are in favour of enlargement of the Union in the Western Balkans, because it represents a reorientation of the European perspective in neighbouring areas, which is also closer to our reality. Mediterranean means politics of the sea, it means politics for the so-called blue growth, it means initiatives for the reorganization of the ports. Also in this field we must launch some reforms at national level for the full implementation of directives that would give again a competitive ability to our ports regarding other ports of the Mediterranean area and regarding the commercial traffics that have resumed to flow in massive way through the Suez Canal. It is clear that in this respect the sequence of Greek and Italian Presidencies offers an extremely important opportunity. In conclusion, I believe that the six-month period can be a great opportunity for us to relaunch all these elements, both in terms of overcoming austerity in itself, by adopting a more growth-oriented perspective, employment and encouraging reforms in a framework of solidarity incentives, and in terms of that increase in European manufacturing capacity which sees us, immediately after Germany, in a position of advantage over many other countries. Let us not forget the interconnections between the industrial sector in the strict sense and the service sector: the two are now extremely connected, and we can invest more in this. This brings me back to the issue of regulatory simplification, which I had actually neglected in the first answer. It is fundamental. We have obtained this in the European Commission's invitations to tender, not only from a linguistic point of view, defending and winning cases at the Court of Justice for the use of the Italian language, but also from the point of view of simplifying those 'bricks' which explained the conditions for a tender, which naturally became a problem for small businesses and micro-enterprises. Is there a margin to be protagonists? Yes. Is there any room for taking the initiative on the line, which I broadly agree with, of all the ideas you have given? Yes. I believe that we have the opportunity to use the catalyst of the European Semester to do all this together. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer questions, even for two minutes each (we have time).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u70	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with this reply and particularly appreciate the fact that you have reminded us how we sometimes tend to give others the responsibility for trouble that perhaps we should try to take care of first by doing well at home. There is no doubt that some public opinion tends to attribute to other European partners (Germany has been mentioned) the cause of an excessively strict policy, which penalizes our country. I believe that this depends very much in reality (there is the crisis) on the inability to carry out important reforms, which participation in the European Union should instead encourage us to achieve. It is clear that this also depends on the instability and fragility of our political system. I hope that what is being achieved in these days and hours will also be in the interests of greater clarity of political horizons (the duration of the parliamentary term, the strength of the Commission) and that this will contribute, in view of the European Semester, to greater credibility and strength of the political action of our Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u73	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, perhaps the extra minute was better to have it in the first part. Anyway, Minister, I appreciate it. If there's no decision, we turn around. Either this country has the strength and determination to deal with this or we're all teasing each other. They don't blame anyone. They give themselves credit to someone, having buried others: they deserve for their people, certainly not for Europe. And it's up to us to know how to get out, helping others. This doesn't seem to happen. Let us be determined in relation to certain battles: from time to time Italy raises its voice, from time to time Italy has the courage to veto things that may affect Germany, Great Britain or France. Which we never do, while others do, very naturally, because others are less European than we are. Then, if we want a strong Europe, Italy will raise your voice. A strong Europe: otherwise, where are we going, what are we talking about? We've come to the point. There's no running away. Either we are determined or we are doing a terrible service to our people and, what is worse, to the whole of Europe. I would also like to reflect on this European policy. The United States and Japan have emerged from worse crises than ours with a policy opposed to austerity. It's never gonna be discussed? Are we always gonna shut down? Without liquidity, how do we help our small entrepreneurs? Do we fill the banks with money they have to overcome their problems? We need European liquidity, euro, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which no longer breathe, with a state that does not pay. This is all there is: this is. That is why there is real and determined action from the perspective of a Europe that we want and that others do not want. They want slaves in Europe; we are not slaves to anyone, neither we, nor Serbia, nor Croatia. But we have to prove that we know we're not slaves. I should use another term. Let's prove we have attributes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u76	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the historical reconstruction, but, taking up the Minister's metaphor, I would say that a good father of a family first thinks about feeding his children and then, if anything, tidying up. In this regard, I would like to mention an ANSA report a couple of hours ago which reports the minutes of the European Parliament's Labour and Social Affairs Committee on the survey that the European Parliament's plenary assembly is carrying out on the work of the so-called Troika, in particular on the policies adopted in Portugal, Cyprus and Ireland. The rapporteur, the Spanish socialist Alejandro Cercas, has highlighted how the economic policies pursued by the troika have created in recent years an unprecedented social and political catastrophe in Europe. This report, approved by 27 votes to 7, with 2 abstentions, thus with a very large majority, also highlights how, for example, employment plans in these countries were financed only by 0.5% of GDP, when 7 percent was used for banks. I therefore thank the Minister for his commitment to implementing the golden rule, but I believe that the revision of the Treaties is a fundamental commitment for Italy, and I am sure that he will find the support of many other countries, given the great majority achieved in the vote on that report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u79	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr. Minister, I can say I'm satisfied. I could be even more satisfied if she used the term "centrality" rather than the term "frontier" rather than the term "centrality." Historically, for millennia, we have been accustomed to this centrality, which involves particular tolerance and coexistence, but also involves specificity. We therefore ask you, when it comes to certain directives in Europe, especially those you have mentioned on the subject of the environment, to stress the specific nature of the Mediterranean, which is different from that of the North Seas or other regions of Europe, and to adopt directives which provide for specific treatment and regulations for the Mediterranean, because so far this has not happened. I therefore repeat the hope that Italy, in its six-month presidency, but also in its daily action in the European field, will emphasize these issues and open again to us the prospects that Italy, in particular the land from which I come, has developed looking to the South.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u80	Mr Minister, in your reply you spoke of the enlargement of the borders of the European Union as a solution. On the other hand, I would have liked to hear more incisively about the importance and centrality of our companies, our problems. As has been correctly said, in these moments we must think about giving solutions to the problems we have at home, before being enthusiastic about those who are outside. I would now like to hang up on what has happened these days with the referendum by which the Swiss citizens have decided to close their borders and protect their businesses and jobs. Saying when the elevator is full is not going up is not selfish: it is pragmatism, realism. It also means preventing people from getting hurt. To let everyone up, to make everyone believe that they can go up is to make them fall into misfortune. We ask for that pragmatism about Europe that leads us to say no when Europe simply means sharing our resources, when it means putting a country like ours in the grip without looking at the interests that we carry out in a legitimate way. Therefore, we are not satisfied with the government's action in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u81	Mr President, Minister, thank you for sharing with this House proposals that I consider highly commendable. I believe that Europe has all the potential to start a process of reindustrialisation that, together with the fight against youth unemployment, should be at the top of the 2014 European agenda with the objective of establishing a European industrial sector that weighs 20% of GDP by 2020. I believe that, in this perspective, Italy's role could be decisive in the six months of the European Presidency by defining specific industrial policies based on competitiveness, as well as sustainability.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u84	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, Minister, I belong to a group of opposition to the Government, but that does not make me veil my objectivity. I am satisfied with what I have heard you say, not only because you have shown that you have clear ideas, but also because of the calm way and without any shadow of sussiego with which you told us. More than adding anything else to what I have said to you, I would like to make a common reflection with you before the Italian people. You have said something valuable, namely that the equation to reform the state is not only a social and institutional equation, but also one of the essential elements to recover the effects of the disgusting seasons of public debt. Let me then give you a thought. A state like ours, cryptosocialist, full of thousand laces and laces due to pansindicalism and a public sector that, whatever it manages, never introduces private criteria in the management (productivity, merit, competence, economicity) can face a program to reduce the enormous amount of debt? So, the real punctum dolens is this: reforming the state and introducing criteria of liberalisation in institutions and efficiency in management. I would like to say to Mr Fattori that we must be careful with the assistance policies, because when Keynes wrote his treaty and theorized the state's ability to intervene in social policies with its own money (i.e. taxpayers' money), he gave rise to public spending. First we have to clean up the accounts, having in mind that satisfying the contemporaries to charge the cost to posterity was the first element that took the future away from the present generations. Mr. Minister, then, we need politics: Adenauer, Schuman, De Gasperi were not accountants: they were great politicians. The invitation to the Government, to its own and to what is about to come is therefore to make politics prevail over arithmetic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u85	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-192.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 17 February, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
