ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1528, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u5	Mr President, the House is here to examine the draft law, already approved with some amendments by the House of Deputies in June this year, on the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Member States of the European Union on the application of the ACP (Africa, Caribbean and Pacific) Partnership Agreement and on financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories. This is a measure relating to development cooperation, this time carried out within the European Union. The Agreement consists of 15 articles and aims to establish the 11th European Development Fund as a financial instrument to support cooperation between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, and to establish the resources available for the period 2014-2020. As we know, the cooperation between the European Union and the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, initiated by the first Yaoundé Convention in 1963 and then continued with the five Lomé Conventions (between 1975 and 1995), is currently implemented under the Cotonou Agreement, signed on 23 June 2000. This Agreement, which imposes mandatory contributions on the Member States of the European Union for the financing of the European Development Fund (EDF), aims to promote the economic, social and cultural development of the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, as well as to contribute to security, poverty eradication, the promotion of democracy, sustainable development and the gradual integration of those countries into the world economy. These interventions further mark the relationship between funded and funded countries, qualifying them as a real partnership, as provided for in the second revision of the 2010 Agreement. The international economic commitments that Italy, with the whole of the European Union, is called upon to take on, are thus increasingly aimed at greater humanitarian assistance and investment in the human capital of those countries. In this way, our country also plays its part in the bet to put to use the local resources, material, intangible and human present in the States concerned, competing to open spaces of realization in the same territories in which these are generated, with the prospect both to offer real opportunities for development, and to moderate the waves of displacements towards territorial realities considered more advantageous. It is believed, in fact, that a serious and incisive foreign policy is also the result of courageous choices and far-sighted political acts, which in the immediate future can be considered superficially of limited advantage. The Agreement under consideration, which follows the decision of the European Council in February 2013 to allocate a total of EUR 30.5 billion for this purpose for the period 2014-2020, sets out the breakdown between the individual countries of the amount of the financing, intended not only for the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries but also for the Overseas Countries and Territories; this funding is added to the resources made available by the European Investment Bank. With this ratification, Italy will continue to be the fourth contributor to the Economic Development Fund (EFS), after Germany, France and the United Kingdom, with a mandatory payment of more than EUR 3.8 billion for the entire 2014-2020 reference period, amounting to approximately 12.3 percent of the total volume, down from 12.86 percent of the previous programming. The draft law consists of four articles, which concern, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial cover and the entry into force. The title and article 1 of the bill of ratification have been amended for a small formal aspect during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies (the text mentioned as the place of signature only Luxembourg and not also Brussels and as the date of subscription only on 24 June 2013 and not even on 26 June). Article 2 shall give the order of implementation of this Agreement, as from the date of its entry into force, in accordance with Article 14 of that Agreement. In particular, Article 3 provides for financial cover, referring, for the precise determination of the amount, to the annual allocation necessary to meet the Commission's requests (for the EDF share and for the EIB share). This payment will therefore be allocated in the draft budget law, on the basis of the European Commission's annual requests in relation to the total fund. However, the report estimates that the average annual allocation for Italy is EUR 425 million per year, for about nine years. The Agreement, in fact, identifies in total 30.5 billion euros the total amount of resources available from the countries of the European Union involved for the period 2014-2020. Article 4 regulates the entry into force of the law. Given the importance of the agreement on public development aid and multilateral cooperation, I believe that this House can vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u6	As you are not included in the general discussion, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u7	Mr President, I will only speak for a minute, because I understand that fortunately there is a broad consensus on the measure. I do not go into the substance of the content, which the rapporteur has already outlined, and I simply say that the EDF funds, as you know, have, from an instrumental point of view, replaced the European obligations arising from the Cotonou Agreement and are the main instrument of intervention within the African and Pacific countries. I must not stress - to use a rhetorical figure - how decisive it is, in a moment of fragility and turbulence of the African continent, near us, to have an instrument that is at the same time of cooperation and stabilisation of the area. Italy acts according to its own contribution key, being the fourth contributor. This is an important instrument of our international projection. For all these reasons, the Government very much appreciates the concern with which the Senate Assembly today examines this Agreement at second reading.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u8	Let us turn to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 9:55 a.m.. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). (Senators Palma, Marin, Marinello and Albertini turn to the Presidency). Unfortunately, the system closed the vote, but we note that President Palma and Senators Marin, Marinello and Albertini were present and voted in favour. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u11	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, the measure we are debating clearly comes from international agreements to allocate EDF funds to international cooperation and, therefore, can only find Parliament's support. The policies of aid to the countries of the so-called Third World find substantial support for us, because we believe that this is the right direction - we have always said so - to help those countries that are in difficulties from the economic and social point of view, rather than making a policy of indiscriminate entrances on our continent. We note, however, that, in the face of a substantial appropriation of EUR 3.8 billion, which makes Italy the fourth taxpayer in terms of this type of initiative at European level, after Great Britain, Germany and France, in making contributions and helping third world countries, we are basically among the first in the class, but then, in an attempt to avoid an indiscriminate influx of migrants, refugees and illegals (which we say we want) in our country by the Government and the European Union there is no effective policy. In view of these considerations, therefore, we can only criticize our country's foreign policy, considering that Renzi's Presidency to the European Commission in these six months should have also been an opportunity to ask other European countries for a greater contribution in the fight against illegal immigration, missed and absolutely missed by the Government. In addition, in the face of aid, these countries also had to be asked for greater control of migratory flows to our continent. It seems to us that our country's foreign policy has no strategy and no coordination. A series of measures and initiatives with watertight compartments are still being pursued without any logic. Overall, however, we believe that the philosophy of the measure can find our support. It is, basically, 540 million euros per year by Italy over the seven-year period of the Agreement, which, if well spent, could also give positive and positive results, certainly more positive than the billions used by our country to welcome all the disinherits of the world that arrive on our coasts. We hope that the Government will note that its foreign policy is absolutely ineffective and, sooner or later, try to understand that there is a great discomfort in our country regarding the distribution of resources, for the treatment much more favorable to the illegals who arrive in our country, hosted in the hotels, compared to the Italian citizens, who no longer manage to maintain themselves and their family, to have a dignified home where they can raise their children. It seems to us that the government's policy is completely inadequate and, from this point of view, we maintain our total criticism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u14	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u17	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, cooperation between the European Union and the countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) continent was initiated - as we have heard - in 1963 and, after many speeches, the Cotonou Agreement was reached, signed on 23 June 2000. The aim of the Agreement, which is very broad, is to promote the economic, social and cultural development of the ACP countries; to contribute to peace, security and the eradication of poverty; to promote a stable and democratic political climate; to ensure sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP States into the world economy by granting specific treatment to the least developed countries. In 2010, a revision of the Agreement was signed, with the adoption of more current criteria to adapt the partnership to the changes that have occurred in recent years in the international field, paying particular attention to the issues of security, climate change and sustainable development. The European Development Fund (EDF) has been set up, financed by all the countries of the European Community in varying percentages according to the Cotonou Agreement. I would remind you that EUR 30 billion and EUR 506 million have been allocated. It is very interesting to see how this money is divided: 29 billion for the ACP States, 364 million for the overseas countries and territories and 1 billion and 52 million for support expenditure, i.e. administrative expenditure. So, we spend 3.5 percent of the money on managing them. Let us consider this a situation that is not very interesting. I would like to stress that the Cotonou Agreement has a number of important aspects, some of which I now highlight. In particular, I would like to mention those relating to the world of agriculture, which we consider to be very important. Article 23 - for example - includes areas of both institutional and financial cooperation and finances agricultural production strategies and national and regional food security policies. As regards food safety in particular, Article 54 ensures that... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite you to keep a lower tone than the discussion, because you make Senator Gaetti difficult to intervene. GAETTI (M5S). It doesn't matter, ma'am. This shows how much interest we have in the 30 billion, of which 3.8 are ours, which we are spending. Article 68 takes into account the fact that exports could create economic difficulties when they fail, so more careful discipline is called for. The Agreement also provides for a special customs procedure for exports. It can therefore be pointed out that from such an important agreement the Treaty has been translated in a very approximate way - in our opinion -. Meanwhile, we did not go to check how we dedicate such a significant share to overhead expenses. Furthermore, EDF governance does not see the European Parliament's predominance in the redefinition of aid programmes. Moreover, it does not provide for the possibility of agricultural dumping against the beneficiary countries, given the lack of competitiveness of their goods. The programming of assistance financed by the EDF should also be part of a much broader process, in order to create real development in countries benefiting from stable economies, thus reducing the dependence of aid and acquiring what is an extremely important thing for them, namely food sovereignty. Furthermore, the criteria for using part of these emergency funds are not specifically defined either. In our opinion, this must be seen in a vision of foreign policy that Italy - practically, in these situations - has very little. This is so true that if we are faced with these migrations and these displacements of populations (therefore with great problems affecting all of us Western countries) it is because we have not put in place a serious policy in the past towards these citizens more unfortunate than ourselves. For all these reasons, we believe that this Treaty is important, but that it should be redefined in a better way. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u23	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would just like to point out that these agreements on the renewal of the Lomé Convention provide for partnership agreements between Europe and the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. In the context of these agreements, unlike what has just been said, the advantage is, in a certain way, precisely Europe. These free trade agreements, which are subject to partnership agreements, risk bringing, not a benefit, but an evil to the local economies of the countries that represent our counterparts in these agreements, if they are not far-sightedly governed by the European authorities. Therefore, while stressing the importance these agreements have had for the development of the area, also from the cultural point of view (because these partnership agreements also presuppose economic reforms in exchange for aid), I believe it is important to be aware that, in a context in which - today - the countries concerned are plagued by famines and serious diseases, it is important that the logic of free trade underlying these agreements is not brought to consequences such as to impoverish further. Nevertheless, continuing in a logic of cooperation and partnership that has seen the development of these agreements since 1963, I believe it is important to approve this Convention, which, moreover, had already been approved at first reading in the Senate, and which is now being reproposed only because of a formal error noted by the House of Deputies. Therefore, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u24	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1314. Ms Bertuzzi, acting as rapporteur, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u26	Mr President, the draft law ratifies and implements the Strategic Cooperation Agreement between Italy and the Government of Montenegro, which provides for cooperation in the fields of environment, training and the fight against crime, the development of cultural heritage, science, medicine and sport. The Agreement is therefore aimed at further strengthening the relations between Italy and Montenegro in the respective sectors of interest and economic integration between the two countries with positive effects on trade and employment. The Agreement identifies the areas and objectives of bilateral cooperation, providing for Italy to support Montenegro in the process of accession to the European Union and NATO and for the relevant institutions of the two Parties to participate in the implementation of projects and cooperation programmes. A Joint Committee is to be set up, composed of the respective Directors-General responsible for the bilateral relations of the Foreign Ministries, with tasks of coordination of programmes and projects, promotion of the work of the working groups and formulation of proposals for improvement of the Agreement. The Joint Committee shall also meet alternately in Italy and Montenegro at least twice a year. It is also stipulated that, on an annual basis, meetings will be held between the Heads of Government or the Ministers responsible to discuss the report submitted by the Joint Committee on the implementation of the programmes and projects of strategic collaboration, as well as on possible improvements to the Agreement. The Parties will also hold regular consultations of experts on bilateral, international, European or regional issues of common interest as set out in the Memorandum of Cooperation already signed between the Foreign Ministries of the two countries. The Agreement may be amended in a consensual manner or denounced by each of the two parties and the complaint shall take effect three months after notification has taken place. Finally, the Agreement is expected to enter into force upon receipt of notifications of the internal ratification procedure. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of four articles which, as always, have on the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. Economic charges are quantified in mission expenses alone, i.e. EUR 620 per year from 2014. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law or with Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs delivered a non-obstacle opinion on the measure, while the European Union's Justice, Defence, Territory and Environment and Policies Committees gave a favourable opinion. To conclude, I would like to add further considerations to show that Montenegro is in the process of negotiating accession to both the European Union and NATO. In particular, last March the country opened two other negotiating chapters in the negotiations for accession to the European Union: the one on intellectual property and the one on the information society and the media. In June 2014, it opened three more: free movement of capital, foreign policy, security and defence and, finally, financial controls. There are 33 negotiating chapters in all, and so far Montenegro has opened 12 chapters, concluding 2. It is therefore a long but very interesting route. As for NATO, the Secretary-General of the Atlantic Alliance recently defined Montenegro as an important partner and a strong candidate for accession. These elements, while aware that progress in economic and social reforms is positive but not yet sufficient, go in the direction of increasing integration between Montenegro and the rest of Europe. Last but not least, the important presence of Italian entrepreneurs in Montenegro and the growing importance this country has in terms of energy supplies to Italy. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u27	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u28	Mr President, I will speak in general debate on all the ratification measures and then to declare the vote. In this case, I would just like to make one point, Mr President. We are talking about NATO and Montenegro. We were at NATO two days ago as the Security Committee of the Republic and we have addressed important and sensitive issues. In that forum we understood how strategic the role and the geographical position itself, which is not secondary, of Montenegro to address the most urgent, current and dramatic issues that not only concern our country. It was good for the then Berlusconi Government to approve this Agreement; today we are ratifying it and we hope that it will enter into force immediately because - as I will say in the explanation of vote - the advantages will certainly be important for both countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u29	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u30	As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u31	Mr President, I would also like to make a brief comment, after listening to the speeches of the working rapporteur and Senator Stucchi. Of the four measures that the Senate is preparing to examine, two relate to Mexico and two to Montenegro, so I would like to make a point that applies to this and to the subsequent one relating to a Convention on extradition. It has been pointed out - but I would like to stress this before my fellow senators - that, after achieving independence, Podgorica is basically one of the countries of the Western Balkans which has made clear the desire for alignment and therefore integration with both the European Union and NATO. Montenegro's path to reform has seemed very convincing to us and you know that the country in its international projection is absolutely motivated in the strategy of enlargement to the Western Balkans. It is generally incomprehensible, looking at the map of Europe, that an area that represents just under two percent of the population of the European Union, as it is today, and just under one percent of its gross domestic product has not yet found complete integration: it is a real hole on the map. There are different speeds, there are different stages of this integration. Montenegro is among the countries that have shown a greater motivation and for these reasons we are happy to meet this desire for a journey towards Europe. I would like to say this here because, on the one hand, Montenegro has already ratified the Agreement that we are going to examine at first reading; on the other hand, following the appointment of Federica Mogherini as the EU High Representative, it is quite clear that one of the most important elements of the High Representative's portfolio in the next five years is precisely that of enlargement. There is, therefore, a double motivation for our Parliament to follow closely the developments in the countries of this area, which, as is well known, is of particular concern to us as our immediate eastern neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u32	Let us turn to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u35	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Commission has highlighted the possible overall benefits, both in terms of security (and I remember the discussions with Minister Maroni at the time with regard to both countries) and for our entrepreneurs, because, although small, Montenegro is still an important country within the scenario, and the context is a delicate area. However, it is an interesting prospect to develop entrepreneurial activities that are often also managed by our fellow countrymen. From this point of view, therefore, we reaffirm the vote convinced that this ratification will be approved, which I confirm as an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u38	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the New Centre Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u41	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, this draft law aims to ratify the Agreement, signed in February 2010, by the then Heads of Government, Berlusconi and Djukanovic. Among the areas covered by this Memorandum are infrastructure, investment in energy and tourism, environmental protection and the fight against crime. I would like to focus on Article 1, which aims to define the areas of strategic cooperation. Among these, it is clear that the two States should cooperate on investments for sustainable development, should commit themselves to modernising and building infrastructure, to cooperating on the development of the energy sector or to producing energy from renewable sources. Among the areas for the promotion of projects to protect the environment, biodiversity and the territory, there is also the point on the management of industrial and urban waste, as well as the point on the control of harmful gas emissions. I wonder: are we sure that we do not have a certain and dangerous potential for such an infrastructure and energy collaboration? Although we do not want to think badly, sincerely, we cannot allow ourselves to vote wrong, when there is a lack of clarity and the risk of harming our citizens. We are surprised, among other things, that an agreement of this magnitude considered as a strategic agreement still has to produce its effects more than four years after the parties' signature. We have a doubt. So much so that we have in particular investigated the issue of electricity and the strange union that binds us to this Balkan country. In this regard, on the MISE website, a post dated February 6, 2010, was titled: Energy: Scajola gives the green light to the collaboration between Italy and Montenegro. To this day on the Internet we read: " (...) Claudio Scajola, on the occasion of the meeting and the signing of strategic collaboration agreements, between the Prime Minister of Montenegro, Milo Djukanovic, and the President of the Italian Council, Silvio Berlusconi, at Palazzo Chigi, has signed with the minister of the Montenegrin economy, Branko Vujovic, an agreement on energy. The new collaboration involves the construction of the electricity interconnection between Italy and Montenegro, with the creation, by Terna, of a submarine high voltage cable that will connect the transmission networks of the cities of Pescara and Bari. The cable will be about 400 kilometers long, of which 300 below sea level, and will have an initial capacity of 1,000 megawatts (incrementable to 2,000 megawatts). Thanks to interconnection, our country will be able to import green energy from Montenegro and neighbouring states, thus helping to increase the quota foreseen in the Kyoto agreements and the European "20-20-20 package." Energy that can be produced by Italian projects such as that of the Drina valley, between Serbia and the Republic of Srpska (the Serbian Republic of Bosnia) and for the hydro-electric exploitation of rivers. President Berlusconi then focused on energy, because it is an area in which we will have the most dynamic development in the coming years; on the transport sector; on the privatisation and development of port and railway capacities, to connect Italy and Central Europe; and he also focused on tourism in the Balkans. Excuse me, but I would like to ask my colleagues in Forza Italia: have you ever asked all your voters if they are in favour of privatising port and rail capacity to connect Italy and Central Europe? I only ask you because I do not think that everyone agrees with making a service like port or rail a private service. This measure is nothing more than the result of a commitment made by Berlusconi, a commitment made when you of the Democratic Party were in opposition. Berlusconi, on the occasion of the Agreement, recalled that the commitment had as its objective to support Italian investments in Montenegro, so as to allow to move from the 14th place to the 2nd place among the investors. He added that thanks to A2A's investments in the energy sector, we have even become the first investor in the country. In fact, if we go to read an excerpt of "InfoMercatiEsteri" in June 2013, we can understand how the energy market in Montenegro is characterized by the presence of a large producer, whose strategic partner is the Italian A2A, from the Serbian national society of transmission of electricity, CGES, whose strategic partner is the Italian Terna. Just about Terna, it has to be said that in order to connect Montenegro and Italy the estimated cost is one billion euros. But whose cost will this be? At the expense of Terna, precisely, and therefore at the expense of the electric bills that the Italians will have to pay. Unfortunately it is known that the works of this interconnection have recently begun on the Italian mainland, near Villanova, in the Province of Pescara, in Abruzzo, not without problems and complications. Of course, before signing certain protocols, it would have been appropriate to inform those who really would have suffered the consequences of such choices; but as always public opinion is ignored! What Berlusconi really signed with Djukanovic is, therefore, the agreement with Terna for the 1,000 megawatt link between Montenegro and Italy, because the energy sector in Montenegro cannot fail to be a priority in future collaboration. The Montenegrin Prime Minister himself said that this is an area where we will have the most dynamic development in Montenegro in the coming years. Too bad the consequences for this development will be paid by the Italians. We are at the same time: we make commitments without evaluating negative impacts! And I would like to say this to my colleagues in the centre-left, who certainly did everything in their time to counter Berlusconi's ideas, but who today, becoming a majority, take different positions. This is demonstrated by the Renzi Government's response to Question 5-02298 to the first signature of the congressman of the 5 Star Movement, Andrea Colletti, who in the part where he speaks of the submarine cable declares the following: In relation to the realization of the Italian-Montenegro submarine cable, it is represented that this interconnection is part of a general plan of structural connection between the Italian electricity system and the Balkan electrical system, which will allow the connection with the networks of Romania, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, as well as with Serbia. But above all, this is how the left has changed its mind, despite the agreement signed by its then worst political enemy: The construction of the cable is therefore part of a process of progressive interconnection of the European electricity markets aimed at reducing the price of energy for citizens and businesses. We are well aware that no reduction in the price of energy is operating, indeed, to be honest, it is also feared that the RAI fee should be included in the bill! So, ladies and gentlemen, be consistent, sincere and loyal at least to yourselves. You have an opportunity to say no to this ratification! The 5 Star Movement does not agree to support this collaboration and it is not for lack of transparency and clarity. That is why, on behalf of my Group, I am voting against this draft law ratifying the Strategic Collaboration Agreement between Italy and Montenegro. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u44	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia declares its vote in favour, aimed at giving authorisation to the President of the Republic for the ratification of the Strategic Collaboration Agreement between Italy and Montenegro, concluded in Rome in February 2010 by the then President Silvio Berlusconi and the Montenegrin Prime Minister Milo Dukanovic. If we want to give an example of how Italy should behave in the Mediterranean region, this is probably a fairly precise example, for a very simple reason: compared to many of our rain interventions for cooperation in the world, here there is a compelling political logic, that of acting as a regional power in the Mediterranean, so in the area that interests us most and which is more strategic for us. This is precisely why it is an agreement aimed at intensifying bilateral cooperation between the two countries, particularly in the fields of infrastructure, investment, energy, tourism, environmental protection, the fight against organised crime, scientific and technological cooperation, education, health and regional cooperation. There is a commitment to closer collaboration, in continuity with the Memorandum of Collaboration between the Italian and Montenegrin Ministries of Foreign Affairs, signed in Rome in July 2007, a year after the independence of the Trans-Adriatic Republic, which provides for regular wide-ranging consultations between the two Dicasteries. In the context of this cooperation, Italy will continue to support Montenegro's commitment to its accession to the European and Euro-Atlantic institutions. The prospect of becoming a member of the European Union and NATO is a priority for the authorities in Podgorica, which Italy strongly supports. For Italy, it is a question of supporting the Government of Montenegro in implementing the necessary reforms, with the aim, on the one hand, of strengthening the internal process of institutional, economic and social reform and, on the other hand, of adapting national legislation to the acquis communautaire. In order to fully implement the bilateral cooperation agreement, the Parties will constitute the Joint Committee composed of representatives of the two countries. The exchange of information, consultations, contacts between senior officials of their respective administrations and political meetings will enable the progress of bilateral cooperation to be monitored. In other words, in this way we try to do something that normally succeeds us, but in a somewhat disconnected way, that is, to give our country a role in a series of international relations, in a region that should see us as protagonists. That is why we shall vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u47	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I declare the PD Group's vote in favour of the draft law ratifying the Strategic Collaboration Agreement between Italy and Montenegro. As has been recalled, this is an agreement aimed at strengthening the already significant relations between Italy and this strategic Country of the Balkan area, in order to coordinate programs and projects in important areas of collaboration in the field of the fight against crime, the protection of cultural heritage and the development of investments. This collaboration can only foster the economic integration processes of the two countries, leading to important positive effects both in terms of trade and employment. I would like to point out once again that this measure is part of the process of Montenegro's accession to the European Union and NATO, an initiative which - as the government representative himself mentioned earlier - our country will continue to support. I would also like to remind the House that the Agreement in question goes hand in hand with two other important collaborative actions taking place in the heart of Europe, such as the Central European Initiative and the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, which is now being formalised; these actions, which have long seen Italy, Montenegro and other countries of the Balkan area and the European Union engaged in developing relations in the institutional, cultural, economic and social fields. Finally, but not least, the ratification of the Agreement is a further step in the construction of positive relations between the two countries, also within the framework - I would like to point out - of an effective work for the stabilisation of the whole Balkan area.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u48	We shall proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1329. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Treaty and the one set out in the subsequent draft law No 1330 are intended to strengthen and regulate cooperation relations between Italy and non-EU countries in a timely manner, with the aim of improving judicial cooperation and thus making the fight against crime more effective in the criminal justice sector. The first of these treaties is referred to the bill n. 1329, which carries the ratification and enforcement of the Treaty in the matter of criminal judicial assistance between Italy and Mexico, signed in July 2011. The text under discussion aims to improve and strengthen cooperation between the two countries in the field of judicial assistance in criminal matters, ensuring that it is implemented quickly and effectively and in accordance with the principles of international law. The Treaty, which consists of 25 articles, sets out first of all the areas in which criminal judicial assistance will be carried out, i.e., among others: the service of judicial documents; the taking of evidence or statements; the taking of evidence; the seizure and confiscation of illegal proceeds; the summoning of witnesses and others. In Article 3, the act regulates cases in which a refusal or postponement of legal assistance may be envisaged, where the person has already been investigated and judged for the same fact or where the offence for which it is committed is punishable by a penalty prohibited in the other law, such as the death penalty. Article 4 of the Treaty also lays down detailed rules for the implementation of the application for legal aid, Article 5 of the Treaty lays down the cases in which immunity and prerogatives are invoked, Article 6 of the Treaty lays down confidentiality requirements, Articles 7 and 8 respectively of the procedures for the service and transmission of documents, and Article 9 of the Treaty lays down procedures for searches, seizures and confiscations. The following articles concern the arrangements for the appearance of persons, the temporary transfer of persons held and the procedures for the exchange of information on criminal proceedings. The Treaty also sets out in detail the forms of requests for legal assistance, including the language in which they are to be formulated and the costs of requesting them. The draft ratification law consists of four articles, which concern the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges and the entry into force of the text. The Committee on Defence, which gave a favourable opinion, and the Committees on the Budget and Constitutional Affairs gave its opinion on the draft law in question. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u52	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the two measures now before us and the subsequent draft law No 1330, are linked to each other and that their ratification puts their finger on the scourge. As Mexico is a problematic country, it is in fact opportune that there are these new instruments of collaboration, also because of the level of Mexican crime, which often has interests that develop also in our country and is connected with our through people who are in direct contact and who work together - if you pass this term - to subjects resident in Mexico or who, even if they are outside of Mexico, are of Mexican citizenship. So, the Berlusconi Government was right to approve these two treaties. We are now examining the first of the two, but I remember that the subsequent draft law, relating to extraditions, certainly allows us to give more guarantees and certainty to the implementation of penalties.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u53	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u54	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to point out that our Group makes our possible approval of ratification conditional on the adoption of the G1 agenda which we have tabled and which we consider crucial from our point of view. On this agenda, I would like to ask the attention of the Senate House for a moment, because it is about a very serious affair in Mexico two months ago, but unfortunately, as is often the case in our country also because of information and a press that is really not attentive to what is happening out of here, it has not been sufficiently discussed. Two months ago in Mexico, following a protest demonstration by some student groups, youthful to commemorate a famous massacre that occurred in 1968 (the massacre of the Three Cultures Square, a place where hundreds of Mexican students were killed at the time, one of the symbols of the entire 1968 world movement), well these students who had organized this event not only were brutally repressed in the blood, but that day three of those students were killed and over the hours immediately following happened a story that is deeply shaking national public opinion. I find it really surreal that in our country this story is unknown to the most: 43 Mexican students have been kidnapped, they are disappeared and I use the word desaparecidos not by chance because when you use it it means that who has produced that disappearance is not a criminal group but it is the State. The state, in the figure of the authorities, of the police of the State in which Iguala is located, seized these 43 students and delivered them to a band of drug traffickers; these 43 students were killed, probably even burned inside some ovens. Of course, as you can well imagine, in that country a gigantic protest movement has exploded that has involved 150 Mexican cities; hundreds of thousands of people have come to the square to solidarity with the families of the students disappeared. Following these events and this dramatic climate, which has shaken the Mexican federal state, the national authority has inevitably moved too, a few small steps have been taken: some Mexican politicians have been indicted related to drug traffickers gangs, it has begun to uncover this dramatic hood that kept an even resounding story hidden. All of this, however, is not enough, Mr President, because before a massacre of this magnitude it is the obligation of the international community to use all the possibilities it has, to exert all the international pressures, to use all the instruments of democracy and legality to ask the Mexican State in an unceasing way to produce truth and transparency with respect to what has happened. I hope that the Italian Government will take on this issue, and I hope that the Italian Government will also take on board the European Union and other European governments, because a crime of this magnitude cannot be considered simply a problem involving a single country. We are discussing precisely human rights and, of course, such a resounding and gigantic issue of human rights questions not only the conscience of all of us, but the entire international community. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u55	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u56	Mr President, the subject raised by Mr De Cristofaro is serious. I would like to inform the House that this morning I met the Mexican ambassador on exactly this matter. I signed an appeal, which was presented in Milan and was taken to the Mexican consul. The ambassador had the courtesy to come to the Senate this morning to announce to me the measures that were taken by the Mexican Government, which I find of extraordinary importance. It is clear that nothing is enough, but it seems to me that the step forward that has been taken is relevant, first of all for the identification of the culprits, as Mr De Cristofaro already said, and, secondly, because the remains of these poor children are not, at present, identifiable as charred. The tools available to Mexican structures are not able to confirm the identification of these remains and therefore they have been sent to a specialized world center in Austria; therefore, the path of recognition has begun. Thirdly, an International Commission on Human Rights has been set up between experts from different states and disciplines and - what is important - the victims' family members, in order to create synergy between technology, civil society and institutions. I repeat: it is clear that nothing is enough. The Italian Government has been interested and, as far as I know (I think Vice Minister Pistelli can confirm this), the Ministry is aware and is acting in the right direction. This is to say that the issue of human rights, not only for Mexico but in general, goes through all international treaties, and we are aware of that. In this case - again in this case - fortunately human rights (and the response to these rights, which are then rights of universal democracy) contribute and can help to improve relations between States. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u57	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this issue deserves the attention of this House. The episode we've been talking about is terrible. I think there are no words to define how horrible what happened in Mexico to these poor kids, whose bodies were found charred. However, we are very careful about how to proceed. We certainly cannot, with an agenda, enter into a procedure which has been put in place with great rigour. We are in the presence of a government, which, moreover, if nothing else for all that has happened, is objectively injured in the matter, and in the presence of a judiciary that has already imprisoned not a few people, so we cannot give the impression of binding the acceptance of international agreements, which have already been, at a certain attitude, making a trial to the cold intentions, which would have no kind of logic and, among other things, would conflict with the traditional friendship relations that we have with this great country. Therefore, I think that we should not lose sight of the agenda that the Senators of the Left, Ecology and Freedom have presented, at the first signature of Mr De Cristofaro, because it corresponds to a collective feeling in this House; however, I would like to say that, on the way in which the agenda is presented and on the content, reformulation is the right way forward. In any case, I would like to refer myself to Deputy Minister Pistelli, who, moreover, is well aware of the situation. I would also like to understand the Government's view on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u59	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u60	Mr President, even on the basis of the considerations now developed by President Casini, I would not superimpose the debate on ratification to the debate on a frankly terrible affair, which has a certain context of times, places, ways and protagonists, and for which my fellow Members have done well to present the agenda, but less well to tie their behaviour and their vote - if I have understood the considerations of Senator De Cristofaro - to the outcome of the agenda. Moreover - as Senator De Biasi has said very well - I too hope that the representative of the Government can confirm the existence of a certain relaxation, as evidenced also by the diplomatic-institutional courtesy that the ambassador showed this morning, meeting in the Senate some colleagues. If the government were to confirm that it would be better not to link our vote on the Treaty to the agenda, I could only confirm our Group's vote in favour, regardless of what the agenda debate is going to be, which is not entirely inappropriate - this is also parliamentaryism - we have now anticipated. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u63	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, on the subject of the agenda, we naturally share the content and the spirit, which we understand very well, of the agenda. However, I too believe that the two issues should be kept separate: on the one hand, the ratification of an agreement and, on the other, a dramatic fact that unfortunately is not unique in that country, because other heinous crimes have been carried out and are carried out daily. Perhaps it would be more appropriate, also to stress how important it is for a House such as ours to take a position, perhaps to use a different instrument. I therefore propose that we also consider the option of a motion, of course at the first signature of my colleague Mr De Cristofaro, to which we all converge, and to hold a real debate in this House in the coming days on such a sensitive subject. Perhaps, if it were dealt with in an agenda, it would in a certain sense also lose its importance, given not only the respect that we owe to those who have lost their lives, but above all the concern that we must have when faced with such facts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u64	Mr President, first of all I would like to make a couple of quick comments on the two treaties with the Mexican United States which we have ratified, the one on legal aid and the one on extradition. Relations with Mexico are now in full recovery. This is testified by the fact that the former President of the Letta Council last year made a state visit to the new President Peña Nieto and the new President of the Council met him in the framework of the G20; these meetings were followed by other missions at the level of the Presidency of the Council with an intensity that we had not attended for a long time. One of the elements of greater collaboration, in addition to personal friendship and mutual economic investments, is related exactly to the theme of security, because - alas - it must be said that, among the excellences that we have learned on the ground that Italy can bring out, there is also the fight against transnational criminal organizations. Alas, Italy has experienced on its own skin what it means today to fight against criminal organizations and, therefore, not only against Mexico but, considering the partner of the highest level, also in the investigative technical-judicial collaborations in the fight against transnational organizations and, in particular, the drug cartels that afflict the contemporary story of Mexico. This is to say that the two treaties have a lot to do, in some respects, as a general mission, with the specific story that Senator De Cristofaro recalled, but they see the Government of Mexico and the Italian Government (our country) on the same side of the barricade. At this moment we are exactly working with the Mexican authorities so that, in the area of investigation and dismantling of dangerous drug cartels within Mexico and those of a transnational nature, our country can offer a valued expertise. Moreover, there are a number of other agreements governing relations between us and Mexico; a first was reached in 2002, whereas the one relating to extradition is very important for it to be adjusted if the previous Treaty, which still talks about extradition of criminals, is in 1899. So, we're a hundred and fifteen years behind. Therefore, if I have a summary of the things I have heard, my suggestion is as follows: the Government recommends to the Senate Chamber a swift and choral approval of the two measures, which are part of this kind of collaboration that I have described. With reference, on the other hand, to the specific case that has been reported, concerning the 43 missing students, the Ministry has received - both Minister Gentiloni, and undersecretary Giro - the Mexican authorities and the ambassador, as well as my colleague De Biase. We're in daily contact with the Mexico embassy. We have listened to the signatories, starting with the architect Steiner, of the appeal that gave rise to this attention of the public. Therefore, I must honestly say that the Farnesina closely follows this story, even in the light of the solicitations received in Italy from the Mexican community. What I would like to accept, however, is the suggestion of Senator Stucchi and President Casini, who I find very common sense: on the one hand, do not condition - as I say as a friendly advice - the ratification of these two agreements for the approval of the agenda, because - I repeat - the Italian Government and the Mexican authorities are on the same side as the barricade to counter these phenomena; on the other hand, if Senator De Cristofaro and the other signatories are in favour of some reformulations that the Government proposes in the part relating to commitments, this - frankly - could become an instrument of accompaniment to this debate, which is not only of interest to the SEL Group; it could become a very strong political manifestation by the entire Senate Assembly. I would therefore like to bring forward here a proposal for redrafting the G1 agenda to which the Government would be in favour. If you have a moment of patience and attention, I will read you the three commitments and the three rewordings. In the original version, the first commitment was as follows: It shall assess, in the process of implementing this Treaty, the commitment by the Mexican Government to shed full light on the above facts, so that it undertakes to prosecute and punish the criminal behaviour adopted by the police and representatives of the local institutions; that it may give certain answers to family members who demand certain evidence of the fate of their children. The version that we propose is as follows: to express to the Mexican authorities the strong hope that the crimes committed by members of the cartel called "Guerreros Unidos," by the police and representatives of the local institutions on the occasion of the disappearance of 43 students in Iguala will be ascertained in the judicial and if necessary punished and that the children's family - who ask for certain evidence on the fate of their children - will be assured certain and definitive answers. As regards the second undertaking, the original version shall contain: In bilateral relations, both political-diplomatic and commercial, the theme of systematic violations of human rights in Mexico is to review relations with the Mexican Government, linking them to respect for legality and human rights. The proposal we are presenting to the House is to say: It will continue to engage in any useful institutional contact with the Mexican authorities - with whom active cooperation is already underway in the field of security and the fight against organised crime - on the issues of strengthening the rule of law and the legal system for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms; About the third and final commitment, the original version says: "to address, in European and international fora, the theme of the systematic violation of human rights in Mexico caused by the increasingly numerous and aggressive gangs of drug traffickers and in particular: the protection of young people and their right to demonstrate in order to claim a possible and free future in their country; the protection of women, the first victims of the brutal violence of narcos, to put an end to their abductions and disappearances." The version, perhaps just more concise, that we propose is as follows: It continues to address, in the appropriate European and international fora, both the issue of human rights violations in Mexico by criminal organizations (perpetrated through murders, abductions, disappearances) and the question of the protection of young people - and their right to demonstrate to claim a possible and free future in their country - and women, among the main victims of the violence of the narcos. These are the three rewordings that I propose, thanks to which I believe that not the SEL Group, but the whole House could somehow recognize itself on the agenda in our examination and send a very strong signal, at the same time attentive to the issue of rights but also collaborative with the Mexican authorities already engaged in this process.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u65	Senator De Cristofaro, do you accept the proposals for reformulation by the Undersecretary Pistelli?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u66	Mr President, I accept you because I believe that on this issue, frankly, the political flag of the individual Group is not valid, but the unanimity of the Senate Assembly is much more important. I would have preferred a text written a little differently, but we accept the rewordings as mediation, and yet we think it is a step forward. Therefore, since we consider it essential that not only a political group but the entire Senate Assembly should be expressed on such a sensitive issue, with all the legitimacy and strength that this means, we accept the proposed reformulations. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senators Campanella and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u67	Senator Zin, what is your opinion on the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u68	I support you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u71	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u72	If there are other senators who wish to add their signature to the G1 agenda (text 2) they can communicate it to the Presidency. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u75	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are talking about the first ratification of Mexico. As I said before, this is an important measure because it affects very sensitive aspects, which often concern very heinous crimes. This cooperation is necessary and in here there are the tools that allow justice to work best in the interests of protecting the security of all citizens so that the perpetrators of certain crimes are effectively brought to justice. I would add nothing more than to confirm here that this is the first part of an overall agreement that we will strengthen and define better with the approval of the second ratification in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u78	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I confirm the support of the Group of the New Right Centro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u81	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, the draft law we are about to adopt is intended to ratify and implement the Treaty on criminal judicial assistance between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Mexican United States. This Agreement stems from the common aim of strengthening and improving the strictly judicial procedures of criminal importance relating to the fight against crime. A crime widespread in a territory, such as Mexico, which represents one of the most worrying social problems in Mexican history and the entire American continent. Mexico enjoys a bad reputation for the violence of drug cartels; violence which, apart from having resulted in a bloody drug war, has led to a situation of democratic destabilisation and the partial collapse of the activities of the Forces of Order, in conjunction with an exponential increase in violent crimes. Certainly, we cannot hide our concern about the success of the agreement we are dealing with today, but we should assume a contribution to the fight against this social scourge of organised crime, which in the United States of Mexico has unfortunately had high rates. Let us not forget here that Mexican drug traffickers play an important role in drug trafficking at international level, only in second place after the Colombian cartels, dealing with the distribution of cocaine, heroin and marijuana between Latin America and the United States. Certainly we cannot paint this state as the worst among the states; we look forward to denigrating its reputation. No one surprises the name of this state that, according to all, represents one of the most fascinating lands in the world, where natural beauties meet with archaeology and folklore, but above all with history. In fact, Mexico is the depositary of one of the most fascinating civilizations in history, the Mayans, and for this reason it cannot be painted only as the land of drug traffickers. The Mexicans themselves want a ransom, and we can't help them in this leap of pride. Although Mexico has traditionally had high rates of crime, the activities of organized crime have evolved into a popular discontent in the middle-low social strata of society. For this reason, millions of people have sought refuge in the neighboring United States to cope with the high incidence of crime. Data at 1 January 2013 attest that the Mexicans in Italy are more than 3,500, a number that makes us understand how our country has welcomed them, in the perspective of allowing them a better future. As Italy we cannot but commit ourselves to helping this country, and the ratification of this Treaty is certainly the instrument to improve international judicial cooperation and to make, precisely, the fight against crime more effective. I would like to take this opportunity of speaking to make a brief digression which is based on the hearing in the Foreign Commission of the Deputy Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. Beyond Stewart's emphasis on the main operations of the Court, which deals with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, what struck me was a point which, in my opinion, is part of this debate. The Deputy Prosecutor pointed out that good cooperation is important in relations between States. The fact that there are states which do not cooperate with each other raises problems regarding decisions to be taken to protect higher interests, such as justice or criminal judicial assistance, and inevitably results in the consequent slowness of the proceedings. I say this because good cooperation between our country and the Mexican one, surely could facilitate relations in any sector, from the economic to the commercial one, from the management of migratory flows to the contrast of drug trafficking. At this point, I am of the idea that, as a contracting party, Italy cannot escape this commitment, in accordance with the principle of cooperation and cooperation that must be observed. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement expresses its vote in favour of the Senate Act 1329.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u84	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that my Group will abstain from voting on the draft law ratifying the Treaty in question, as a precautionary principle (if I may say so) on the basis of what I said earlier. We had said that we would have wanted to vote against, if the G1 agenda had not been adopted; following what happened just now, namely the partial adoption of the agenda, we feel that we are abstaining, of course knowing that this is a very sensitive political issue. I also think that our country and the international community must do everything, over the months and even the years that will come, to intervene positively on the serious crisis that unfortunately passes through the Mexican State. Among other things, it is striking that precisely in Mexico, which in the past few years, in the last century, for a long political season has been a territory of great political importance, a land of reception (which in some way represented itself as a reference point for the international community in difficult years, in particular between the two world wars), during its last historical phase there have been a series of problems of great evidence, and not simply a problem related to drug trafficking. I would not like it to pass only this message in the end, because unfortunately, within the Mexican State, there are very serious elements of collusion, or at least of insufficient contrast with the topic of drug trafficking, between pieces of state, pieces of local and central institutions, and sectors in various ways engaged in the government of the country, or in any case of the territory. Now, it is clear that the issue of drug trafficking is primarily about us, the West, because the vast majority of consumers are concentrated here. I therefore hope that, starting with today's debate, we will be able to deepen this issue in the coming weeks and months and imagine all the instruments of conflict that Italy and the European Union can use on this ground. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u85	We address the House's greeting to a representation of students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Angelo Maria Ricci" of Rieti, who today attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u88	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Stucchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u91	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of the PD Group, largely because of the reasons already put forward by Deputy Minister Pistelli, in which we fully recognise ourselves. Mexico is a great country, even Italy's ally in many matches; I am thinking only of the issue of the reform of the UN Security Council. It is a country crossed by enormous problems, in particular on the side of organized crime, and certainly our country is an expert in organized crime, is an expert in drug trafficking and even - alas - of collusions between organized crime and politics. I therefore believe that this Treaty helps the two democracies, the Italian one on the one hand and the Mexican one on the other, in the common fight against organised crime, against drug trafficking and against the collusion between organised crime and politics. The more instruments we give to investigations and magistrates to lead their battle against organized crime, the more hopes there are that tomorrow's world will be freed from this terrible plague. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u92	We shall proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). 11:18 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1330. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u94	Mr President, the draft law before us is the ratification and enforcement of the extradition treaty between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Mexican United States (which in the past constituted the ancient Aztec Empire). The United States of Mexico are 32 and the concrete ones involved in the issue of drug trafficking are 12. With this Treaty, signed in 2011, Italy and Mexico intend to improve mutual cooperation in order to have more effective tools to combat crime. Article 1 of the Treaty establishes the mutual commitment of the parties to surrender themselves to persons sought in order to pursue criminal proceedings or to allow the execution of a final sentence. Article 2 sets out the offences which give rise to extradition, i.e. those involving prison sentences of at least one year and the conditions for the request for enforceable extradition (a residual sentence to be served of at least six months). In Articles 3 and 4, the text regulates the conditions for refusing extradition and Article 5 the conditions under which each State must submit to refuse extradition of its own nationals. After identifying the central authorities responsible for transmitting and receiving requests for extradition (for Italy the Ministry of Justice), the Treaty then regulates the form and content of such requests and the typology and form of the documents to be attached. The Treaty also lays down the so-called principle of specialty in favour of the extradited person who cannot be prosecuted or arrested by the requesting State for different crimes committed prior to delivery. The text also prohibits re-extradition to a third State (Article 11), provides for the possibility of provisional arrests (Article 12) and regulates the procedures for assessing requests for extradition made by several States (Article 13). The additional articles lay down the procedures and time limits for the delivery of the requested person, simplified extradition procedures and transit through the territory of one of the two States of one person delivered to the other from a third country. The draft law ratifying this Treaty consists of four articles which relate respectively to the authorisation of ratification, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges (estimated at around 16,000 euros per year from 2014), and the entry into force of the text. There is no incompatibility with Community and international legislation to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, it is proposed that this measure be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u95	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u96	Mr President, I would just like to say, as I have already said, that this is the second part of an agreement signed by the Berlusconi Government on 28 July 2011. We are talking about extradition, which is a useful, necessary and necessary instrument. I would say, however, that in order to complete this package 100% we should also make an agreement that concerns the people who are now detained, Italian prisoners in Mexico or Mexican prisoners in Italy, who should be able to serve the penalties in the country of origin. This would also solve many problems of some of our fellow countrymen in Mexican prisons, where they are certainly held in different conditions from those of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u97	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u100	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, in this case too, I would just like to announce that the League Group has voted in favour, as has already been done on the previous measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u103	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am also voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u106	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate Act 1330 is the bill for the ratification and enforcement of the extradition treaty between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Mexican United States. Without wishing to repeat the thought expressed in the Senate Act 1329, I would like to point out only one problem which could arise with regard to the application of Article 12 of the Treaty, which concerns provisional arrest. We would like to avoid the application of this provision, regulated in paragraphs 2 and following, which could be the cause of many problems in the event that our country deprives other subjects of any nationality of freedom, at the request of a country of dubious democracy. But on the point we have the hope that Mexico will not be among the countries of this kind. We certainly trust that torture should not be carried out in this nation in order to combat crime. Crime must be combated in another way, that is, by cooperating and not using or tolerating violence. With a view to mutual cooperation, the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group votes in favour of the bill authorising the ratification of the extradition treaty in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u109	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we also agree, taking into account the particular situation we are in from the point of view of affinity with regard to organised crime. I believe that on these issues - I understand the debate that has taken place - there must be an almost obligatory attitude on the part of Parliament and our Government. It's a way to give hope anyway. It cannot be imagined that such a phenomenon can be countered by acting only on matters of news, although it is very important; I believe that at the same time we can give signals by making agreements and speeding up their execution on issues of this nature. We shall therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u112	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the PD Group, for the reasons already set out in the previous ratification, which is the twin of the PD Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u113	We shall proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u114	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1532. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u115	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration brings about the ratification and enforcement of the bilateral agreements signed in 2013 between Italy and Montenegro, the first of which is additional to the European Extradition Convention of December 1957 and aimed at facilitating its application, the second of which is additional to the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of April 1959, which is also intended to facilitate its application. The aim of the two instruments is to strengthen cooperation between the two countries. The first of the two Agreements, consisting of three articles, deals with extradition and transit of citizens and is aimed at overcoming the opposition which in 1992 the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia imposed on the applicability of certain articles of the European Extradition Convention. Under the Agreement under consideration, Italy and Montenegro undertake to surrender, in accordance with the rules and conditions laid down by the European Convention, persons who are prosecuted for a criminal offence punishable in the laws of both of them with prison sentences equal to or greater than five years or sentenced definitively to a penalty not less than five years by the judicial authorities of the other State, both for the purposes of the criminal proceedings (expatriation of the case) and the execution of the sentence (executive extradition). With the second bilateral agreement, consisting of six articles, the two states commit themselves to mutual judicial assistance in the criminal field, completing the application of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. As specified in Article 1 of the Agreement, the Parties undertake to assist in the search and identification of persons, for the notification of acts, witnesses and documents, the taking of testimonies and interrogations, the carrying out of investigations, requests for examination by videoconference and bank and financial investigations. Article 2 specifies the time limits for the execution and postponement of the execution of the request of one of the two parties; then follows the procedures for the transmission of requests, those for the examination by videoconference of witnesses and the rules for bank and financial investigations. The draft law of ratification of the two International Agreements consists of four articles which form, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges, and the entry into force of the law. The charges resulting from the application of the Extradition Agreement amount to a total of approximately EUR 9,500 per year, starting in 2014, of which approximately EUR 4,500 have the type of charges assessed, and EUR 5,000 of charges authorised (i.e. translation costs of documents and documents). On the other hand, the charges resulting from the application of the Agreement on Legal Assistance amount to approximately €25,500, starting from 2014, of which little more than €5,000 have the type of charges evaluated, remaining more than €20,000 of authorized charges, for translation costs, stays for witnesses, experts, compensations and videoconferences. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with the Community and international regulations to which Italy is bound, and in particular with the 1957 Convention of the Council of Europe of extradition, of which Montenegro is also a party. In conclusion, it is proposed that the draft law under consideration be approved by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u116	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u117	Mr President, we have already dealt with Montenegro. This is one of the first ratifications of international agreements that comes to the attention of the House to bring the signature of this Government (the Agreement was signed on 25 July 2013). This majority therefore seems very careful to have the international agreements ratified quickly, but - I look at Deputy Minister Pistelli - today in the pre-Council of Ministers we will go to an analysis of a bill of ratification of Italy's accession to a UN Convention on Apolydia, which was made in New York on 30 August 1961. Therefore, if on the one hand there is a record, or at least a demonstration of speed, on the other there is also evidence that perhaps something does not work in the system of acquiring documentation that leads to ratification by Parliament of important measures. However, I would like to put forward the vote in favour of the Lega Nord Group on this measure, which I will reiterate in the explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u118	Mr President, I would just like to refer briefly to what has already been said in the general debate on the previous Strategic Cooperation Agreement with Montenegro, so I would like to refer to those issues. To reassure Senator Stucchi, with regard to the delay in ratifying the Convention he mentioned, I would like to say it is not that from 1961 to 2014 we did a long investigation. There are reasons that have prevented us from being congruent with the instrument to which we adhere today, otherwise the investigation would actually have been a little too long even for the most patients.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u119	Let us turn to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u122	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, as we have also said on the occasion of the ratification of the first agreement with Montenegro, and as we have anticipated in this debate, our Group will vote in favour of this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u125	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the New Centre Group's draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u128	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I declare the Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u131	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on behalf of the PD Group to vote in favour of this draft law, because the ratification of the bilateral agreement on extradition and judicial assistance between Italy and Montenegro is a sure step forward in cooperation between the two countries. It should be noted that this measure allows Italy and Montenegro to promote and implement more decisive and effective action in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u132	We shall proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u135	TONINI (PD). Mr President, as far as the economy of our work is concerned, I would like to make a proposal to the House to remodulate our agenda, calling for an anticipation of the motions on the Kurdish question, including to take advantage of the presence of Mr Pistelli, who we can free for other institutional tasks. The reversal is useful because we have to record, for other commitments related to COPASIR, the absence of Senator Casson, rapporteur on the measure that would be at the point of the agenda immediately following, namely the draft law on organ trafficking, which we could, instead, deal with later. If the Presidency agrees and, of course, if the House and the Groups agree, that would be our proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u136	Senator Tonini, there is nothing to prevent from the Presidency, of course provided that there is agreement on the part of this House, which seems to me to have been reached. So let us reverse the agenda and advance the debate on the motions on the Kurdish question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u137	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00333, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, 1-00352, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00354, tabled by Senator Tonini and other senators, and 1-00356, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, on the international treatment of the PKK. I call Senator De Cristofaro to explain motion 333.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u138	Mr President, we are very pleased that the presentation of our motion forced Parliament and the Senate to discuss it. We are also pleased that the various political forces of our country have expressed themselves on the subject, also because, over the course of all these years, a political problem had been removed in our opinion very serious, that the events that have occurred during the last weeks and months have instead reproposed in all its seriousness and even dramatic. We know well, and we remember in this regard the extraordinary session of the Foreign Committees of the House and Senate gathered this summer, how a Western initiative was created, the so-called coalition of the willing, who faced and is dealing with the story of ISIS, particularly in Iraq. Despite having in that case (and maintaining this position today) expressed a very strong disagreement with that type of approach, namely the idea of providing arms to Kurdish peshmerga who oppose ISIS, and while expressing a vote against, for the simple and trivial reason, which we have repeated over these months and which we reiterate again, that the theme is to understand how ISIS is best opposed and, from our point of view, to involve the United Nations in this affair, remains however as large as a house a very, very serious contradiction with which we confront ourselves. The West considers the work and armed opposition that the Kurds are doing during these months to block the advance of ISIS, that is, the advance of a danger now decisive for the Western world, to which we all declare a form of sidereal distance and to which, of course, we all declare a radical aversion. But this same West, which today wants to fight ISIS, was the one that, over the course of these years, has mistaken almost all the most significant choices of politics and geopolitics regarding that area of the world. First, in fact, over the course of these years the West has not understood what was happening in that territory: it has not understood, for example, that the wars in Iraq (formerly the first war of 1990 and, then, that of 2003) would inevitably favour a process such as that of the construction of ISIS. Once again, moreover, even during the most recent phase, in an anti-Syrian way - and therefore to try to express an element of dissent and opposition to the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria - this same West ended up subsidising and supporting that so-called Syrian opposition which, however, has nothing democratic. It is certainly not an opposition from civil society, given that, if there is - and certainly exists - an opposition from Syrian civil society, this, unfortunately, has been completely crushed by the jihadist troops, so it ended up supporting those embryos from which ISIS was born. This is the context of resounding political errors concerning that area of the world, which would have deserved much more consideration from our Parliament. As my fellow Members are well aware, I have gone to the Foreign Commission several times to say that, although the Foreign Commission is of course formally legitimated to discuss these matters, it would have been good to imagine a plenary session of this House to discuss ISIS and the law enforcement measures, as has been done in other countries of the world. In any case, although the resistance of the Kurdish people is recognized (to the point where weapons are also sent to support the war effort of the Kurdish people), it remains a profound contradiction, from our point of view, concerning the role of one of the main actors present in that scenario. This actor is the Kurdistan Workers' Party which, for several years, has been mistakenly included - in our opinion, and we hope that this issue can be resolved quickly - in the black list of international terrorist organisations, and it is precisely that movement and party which, today, most of all, is maintaining the resistance of the Kurdish people. Of course, we are well aware of the reasons that have led, over the years, to the inclusion of the PKK in international terrorist organisations. We are well aware of what has also happened in our country over the past few years and of the dramatic mistake that he made years ago when he did not want to recognize political asylum in Ocalan, the leader of the PKK, today held in a Turkish maximum security prison. We are well aware of how many mistakes have been made and how, starting from them, the same social condition has deteriorated in recent years as the Kurdish citizens who live in European countries, who, even after these events, have found themselves in a much more difficult condition than the present one. Well, for these reasons, we believe that the national Parliament - for this reason we have tabled this motion - must commit the Government to proceed very clearly with regard to this issue, to remedy the mistakes made over the past years and also and above all for a principle of truth. I am referring to a truth, unfortunately, once again concealed by the Western world and the mass media, particularly in Italy, unlike other European countries, where the role that the PKK is playing in Kurdish resistance is fully recognised. In our country, unfortunately, there is a sort of hood of silence, so you can not discuss in a serious way what is happening in that area and to identify the responsibilities that have been produced during these years. First of all, we must promote, in the European context, confrontation actions that will enable the Kurdish regional authorities to guarantee political stability, obviously re-acquiring their ethnic, cultural, social and economic identity, also in the light of the profound, even theoretical, revision that the movement is making, now increasingly convinced that the solution to the Kurdish problem is the birth not of a Kurdish national state, but rather of a sort of self-governed democratic confederation. It is therefore a very significant theoretical turning point compared to a series of dogmas that, in some way, have characterized the political history of that movement over the past years. We also call for the national government to be able to promote initiatives to establish a real peace process between Turkey and the PKK and the Kurds through a peaceful political process of reconciliation. We believe that in order to do this and also to promote this peace process it is necessary and fundamental that the PKK can be put in a different condition from that in which it has been found in the past years and that it can be deleted from the list of international terrorist organisations. I shall conclude, Mr President, by simply pointing out that the border that passes through the history of humanity, when it comes to liberation movements, between struggle actions and armed struggle actions, is very weak. There was a long historical phase in which a very significant piece of the world thought that Nelson Mandela's political organization - the ANC - was a terrorist organization. This has been said and told for many decades and not simply for many years. That extraordinary leader, whom all of us and the whole world remembered when he died some time ago, somehow crossed, as he himself said and wrote, a long path towards freedom, which evidently led him also to move from one type of action to another and also to change the nature of the opposition to the apartheid regime. Just as it was worth the most important symbol of all - Nelson Mandela and the ANC - we believe that this should apply to all peoples who are fighting for freedom, self-determination and independence. Certainly, when you fight a war and you find yourself in a difficult condition, it can happen that you, the liberation movement, are also forced to violent actions. It happened to the ANC; it happened to the PLO in Palestine; it happened, of course, during the war in Algeria and, of course, it can happen in a war of national liberation. It is therefore very bold to consider this as merely international terrorism. The PKK has really nothing to do with international terrorism, as we have known it all these years. Not only does it have nothing to do with the power stations of terror, but, as has been seen on the ground during these dramatic months that at this moment, in that country and in that part of the world are being lived, ISIS, the Islamic State has fought, even entering some extraordinary elements from the cultural point of view. I say this also and especially to the women parliamentarians of the Italian Republic: the fact that it really strikes positively is that, precisely in the so strong contradiction, the main militias of the PKK that are fighting against the black threat of ISIS and against the cutthroat of the Islamic State are mainly women. This does not happen now, but for many years, and it happens to put on the field not only an element of resistance, but also an element that speaks of a new possible world: a new world that overcomes, overwhelms and defeats the most unbearable dogmas that ISIS has put on the field during these months. From this point of view we believe that it would really be a very, very significant political fact if the Senate of the Italian Republic in some way ripped the veil of hypocrisy on this story that we are telling. Talking about this today means restoring the truth about what is happening in that territory, otherwise we risk being a little hypocrite. Maybe we also give some more weapons to Kurdish fighters but we do not come out of the great contradictions that have marked the recent history of this world. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u139	I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion 352.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, today's motions originate from an instance of deletion from the list of international terrorist organisations of the PKK, the Kurdistan Workers' Party. However, the PKK is only one of the main regional Kurdish groups among which we can also list the Kurdish Regional Government (KRG) in Iraq, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Turkey and the Syria's Democratic Union Party (PYD) in Syria, as well as other different Kurdish groups in Turkey, including Kurdish Islamics who follow the Free Cause Party (Huda-Par) and more secular Kurds, close to the People's Democratic Party (HDP), often affiliated with the PKK. This is the internal political context in Kurdistan, also characterized by strong tensions and fierce competition: tension and competition that are continuing. These internal struggles have also highlighted the often neglected socio-economic dimension of internal peace to the Kurdish question. The Kurds need not only external peace with Turkey, but they also need to establish internal peace among their own groups in the region. The main motivation that prompted us 5 Stars to present our motion, trying to focus the argument from another angle, is to consider it essential to limit the context in question and, once analyzed and understood, to be able to propose a solution or a request for commitments that are adequate. That is why our position is not unbalanced only in favour of the PKK, but we expect, precisely, a freezing time aimed at observation and therefore evaluation of the current political situation, which is profoundly different from the year 2001, the year during which the UN resolution on the inclusion of the PKK in the above list was adopted. We have therefore tried to retrace the steps that have taken us so far and I am therefore going to provide objective facts, I repeat, objective facts that will then be the indispensable basis for building our opinions. The UN resolution identifying the PKK as a terrorist organization is No. 1373 of 2001, that is thirteen years ago the PKK was, in the opinion of the UN, a terrorist group. In 2007 Abdullah Ocalan (leader of training) lodged an action which was, however, deemed inadmissible by the European Court; the same court in Rome granted Öcalan, on the basis of Article 10 of the Constitution, asylum and status as a political refugee. I would remind you that he is currently being held in isolation in Turkish prisons. Precisely from the PKK, under the leadership of Ocalan, they emerged willingness to resolve the Kurdish question by the way of dialogue and confrontation. Among the proposals put forward are those of democratic confederalism, which could form the basis for the solution of the problems of Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran itself, surpassing the national borders not on a sectarian basis, as the fundamentalists of the IS claim, but in a democratic way, respecting the various ethnic and religious faiths by practicing self-determination on a territorial basis. Last important chronological update is the scenario of war against ISIS and the siege of the city of Kobane in Syria located on the border with neighbouring Turkey, currently under attack by the so-called Islamic State. The resolution of the Kurdish question is therefore strategic for the whole of the Middle East and for lasting peace in this area. What has been described so far is the general context, to which the Italian position must be added. This summer, on 20 August 2014 - the Deputy Minister will remember this - a resolution was voted on that: It commits the Government to implement the guidelines formulated by the Extraordinary Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union of 15 August 2014, responding, in agreement with the European and Transatlantic partners, to the requests for humanitarian aid and military support of the Kurdish regional authorities, with the consent of the Iraqi national authorities. On this front, and therefore on this resolution voted in the summer, the M5S has always declared itself opposed to military intervention both air and land by Italian forces, still considering the proposal contained in the recent UN Resolution No 2178 of 2014, adopted on 24 September. In October 2014 the Government confirmed in the so-called mission decree the choice made in August. It is news instead of last week the sending by Italian of other means among which drones and hunting and other earth forces. Our motion states and highlights how the choice made by the Italian Government is to be considered inconsistent when, while as a member of the United Nations can do nothing but follow up the resolution of the body itself, which included - precisely - the PKK in the list of terrorist organizations, and which rightly confirms in 2014 declaring the military intervention unnecessary, supports and weapons the same PKK through decisions taken in August (with the resolution already cited) and confirmed in October by law of conversion of the mission decree. We therefore want to highlight the state of inconsistency of our Government. While the Italian Republic has been diligent in sending arms to the Kurds, it has not been as sensitive in supporting, in international fora, the use of the peaceful way and the negotiation to find a solution to the Kurdish affair in accordance with international law and above all human rights, I therefore come to the reasons that led to our requests for commitment to the Government with the motion under consideration. What we believe is useful to the Kurdish cause in the short term is to achieve proper internal political stability, allowing the Kurds to re-appropriate their ethnic, cultural, social and economic identities; in our view, this must be accompanied by guarantees of renunciation of the armed struggle, by Kurdish extremist groups, with the commitment to pursue a political and peaceful process of internal reconciliation, without prejudice to their autonomy and political independence. Finally, there must be a period of observation during which the PKK will be able to clarify and relocate its international position, after which, in the event of a positive outcome of the observation, it may request to be deleted from the list of terrorist organisations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u141	I call Senator Tonini to explain motion 354.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u142	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr De Cristofaro for wanting to raise this issue with the presentation of motion No 333, which has just been put forward. I think it is very appropriate to hold a debate on the role that the Kurdish people are playing in this terrible international crisis which is disrupting virtually the entire Arab-Islamic world with the emergence on the horizon of the so-called Islamic State, the caliphate. The latter thinks that it can identify the great and millenary Islamic civilization with an entirely ideological, theocratic and imperialistic project, and does not scrupulously use the worst instruments of terrorism, in addition to the fact that today it has an absolutely efficient and in some ways formidable armament, at least in an area such as that between Iraq and Syria, with evident infiltrations and diffusions in a much larger area. In a context like this, the Kurdish people are playing an absolute leading role because they are at the forefront, first of all by defending themselves. In fact, it defends its own survival with respect to violence, heinous and absolutely fierce attacks on the part of ISIS. By defending himself, his own freedom, his own autonomy, his own survival, he is also playing a valuable role in defending us all and, one could say, first of all of the great Islamic Arab world and, in a sense, also of the West and other parts of the world, in this historic phase so difficult and so troubled. Therefore, to reason together, among ourselves, at this moment, here in the Italian Senate, on the future of the Kurdish people and on the credit that is objectively gaining in the eyes of public opinion, even Western, with this struggle, which is not rhetorical to call heroic, is very useful and most timely. The Kurds, as is well known, are a people without a state. It's not the only case in the world, but it's quite a showy case. It is a people of a few tens of millions of people, therefore of all respect from the point of view of the democratic consistency, which occupies a territory divided between four states: Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran. Four states which share the presence on their territory of Kurdish populations. Of course, this fact has very ancient roots (I could call them secular) because, after all, it was followed by the redesign of the borders following the First World War, a hundred years ago. In these months we are celebrating the centenary of the explosion of the terrible Great War, the First World War. Well, the borders were redesigned, after that terrible conflict, in particular by the European powers that won the First World War, following the dissolution of the great multinational empires (on the one hand the Austro-Hungarian one and, on the other the Ottoman one). The map was rewritten on the basis of the ideology prevailing in Europe at the time, which was that of nationalism and national states. We know how much tension this new map has produced in the same Europe, tensions that then led to the Second World War, and how many unresolved problems it has left in that broad mid-range south of Europe that goes from Morocco, the Atlantic Ocean, through all North Africa and then the Middle East, to Asia. Today we are struggling with this problem that is emerging: how to reconstruct and redesign the borders within a new war (we hope it is not a world war) which somehow has as its epicentre the borders between Iraq, Syria and the Middle East as a whole, which were one of the results of the First World War. Europe has developed in recent years, through the terrible experience of conflicts within Europe itself, a culture to address these issues based on two fundamental principles. The first principle is the intangibility of borders, if not through negotiation. The borders that have given us history, which are all, always, by definition, questionable borders, must not be called into question through force, but, if anything, can only be discussed through negotiation. On the other hand, there is the idea that ethnic, cultural and religious differences, which often characterize many of the so-called national states, must be resolved not through secession and rupture with the national states, but through the main instrument of the strong capacity for autonomy and self-government, proper to what we call special autonomy in Italy, compared to central governments. I believe that a substantial part of the leadership of the Kurdish people is moving along this path, which, divided into four states, also has many political organizations within it. From the exchanges that we have also had here in the Senate with the representatives of these organizations, I think I can say that the idea is prevalent, with regard to the future of the Kurdish people, to fight, rather than to redesign the borders to create an unlikely Kurdish state, taking pieces from the four states in which the Kurdish population is divided today, for a significant autonomy of the Kurdish peoples within their respective states. That is also the point of our motion. We encourage the Government to move in this direction, because this is also the best culture in Italy in this perspective. Just think of how Italy has brilliantly addressed the issue of South Tyrol, which certainly has nothing to do with the drama of other national issues and which, however, could have been a purulent plague within our unitary state, while it has been addressed precisely according to the logic of autonomy, with absolutely brilliant results and envied in the world. I believe that this is the way that we can propose to the Kurdish people as a country. In this case, the problem of the PKK is included, which we hope, as the motion says, for a consensual and agreed solution that will enhance the evolution of the PKK in a peaceful and democratic sense in order to arrive, through a negotiation that is already taking place with the Turkish Government, also at the removal of the PKK from the list of terrorist organisations. Italy must act as an encouragement for this negotiation to have a positive outcome, in terms of helping to manage the Kurdish question, which has been highlighted in all its drama, but also with all its positive potential, from this terrible affair of the war with ISIS. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u143	I call Senator Mazzoni to explain motion 356, to which he added his signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u144	Mr President, in explaining the motion by the Forza Italia Group, which, like the others, calls for a reconsideration of the PKK assessments and therefore the possibility of removing it from the black list of terrorist organisations in the future, I can only thank the Kurdish people in this House for what they are doing to defend their own, but also our freedom from the danger posed by the fundamentalism of the ISIS cutthroat. It is right to remember that the Kurds have realistically chosen the path of democratic confederalism, a system that does not pursue the creation of a nation-state, but of a simple nation whose basis is organised civil society autonomously in democratic form, a path that the West would have all the interest in promoting. We must never forget, in fact, that the Kurdish people were the victims of a real genocide, by many, but in particular by Saddam Hussein: 182,000 victims, including many women and children, who disappeared during the Anfal campaign, with 4,500 villages razed to the ground and with civilians hit by chemical weapons. Well, today the Kurdish people are again under a very serious threat: already at the beginning of this year the President of the Iraqi Kurdistan region, Barzani, had alerted the international community to the mortal danger posed by ISIS. Unfortunately, once again, the threat of Islamic fundamentalism has been underestimated by the West, whose overall inadequacy has allowed the caliphate to occupy, between Iraq and Syria, a territory as large as Great Britain, causing the Christian communities to fall back in the dark times of the "dhimmitude": converts, pays taxes or dies. Yet, the Kurdish authorities had warned in time that they would not manage to keep the border on their own, without reinforcements. Of course, they did not receive them in time. When the White House finally decided to bomb the outposts of ISIS, although at the beginning with a deployment of minimum forces, it made it almost out of time, with President Obama who insisted that any possible military action would be limited in its objectives, because the crisis in Iraq - to put it in his own words - needs a political solution. But how could we talk about a political solution at that time, with headcutters and exterminators of women and children? And in fact, in these days, the forced resignation of the U.S. Minister of Defence Hagel was evidence of nine of the failure of the strategy against ISIS. The result is before everyone's eyes: the militias of the Islamic state are spreading terror and perpetrating unprecedented violence. In this regard, the testimony of the representative of the Iraqi Kurds in Italy, Rezan Kader, a few weeks ago was dramatically crude. The numbers are hallucinating: internally displaced people and refugees in the region of Kurdistan are more than a million and a half; since the beginning of the war 1,800 people have already been killed; 3,000 women, almost all very young, have been kidnapped and sold as slaves in Mosul or Syria; in one village 430 men have been massacred; the KRG and the peshmerga forces have so far been able to free 234 people; 600 people have died in the mountains of Shangal for lack of water and food, of which 200 were children; 14 places of worship of the Yazidis have been destroyed and burned. For the Kurdish people the defence of the territory is a matter of blood; just think that there are many women enrolled among the peshmerga. Armament training takes place in the family. 40 percent of Kobane's staff, the city symbolizing resistance to ISIS, are women. The female regiment of the peshmerga is one of the strengths of the Kurdistan defense from 1996 to today. So - I repeat - what the Kurdish peshmerga are fighting is a war to defend the West and our values against those who know nothing but jihad and death for the infidels. Now, explaining the motion in more detail, we certainly cannot hide that among the peshmerga a fundamental role is played by the autonomyists of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, of which the PKK is part, which for Turkish citizens, according to a very recent poll, is even more dangerous than the jihadists themselves of the Islamic state. In the past years, the PKK has indeed been responsible for a number of attacks in Turkey, for which Europe has been included since 2002 on the list of terrorist organisations, at the request of the Government of Ankara. But now the situation has changed and there is a paradox that needs to be realistically overcome: the European Union provides arms to Kurdish fighters and therefore also to PKK militants to fight ISIS, but it continues to keep the PKK in the black register of terrorist organisations. Well, there has been a statement by the European Association of jurists for Democracy and Human Rights in the world, which has launched an appeal calling for the removal of the PKK from the European list of terrorism, the lifting of the prohibition of activity, support for the peace process and the legal re-evaluation of the PKK by the European Union. The ban on the PKK has called into question the right of residence of tens of thousands of Kurds in Europe and has actually led to their criminalisation. Among other things, while ISIS can count on oil revenues and treasures seized from Iraqi and Syrian banks, organisations considered close to the PKK have been affected by financial restrictions and the freezing of all bank accounts; at the same time, no economic, financial or other resources can be provided to it. In short, the time has come to review the PKK dossier, in order to arrive at a new legal assessment by the European Union also on the basis of the new facts, which are many. In June 2014, in fact, the Turkish Parliament officially approved the peace negotiations between the Turkish Government and the PKK. The PKK has long renounced armed struggle to pursue political objectives, declared a unilateral ceasefire against the Turkish Government and does not require the separation of Kurdish territory from Turkey, but now seeks a democratic regional autonomous administration, modelled on that established in Western Kurdistan, northern Syria. Above all, I repeat, the PKK is organizing, together with the other Kurdish forces, armed resistance against the so-called Islamic State. For these reasons the removal of the PKK from the list of terrorist organisations in the European Union should no longer find obstacles. Not only that: I would add in a personal capacity that the Italian Government should commit itself to officially recognising the Kurdish genocide of 1988, it should provide even greater military support to the regional government of Kurdistan and it should recognise the diplomatic status of the Kurdistan representative office in Italy, as Austria, Spain, Sweden and other European countries have already done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII eNCD groups and Senator Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u145	I greet students and professors of the Technical Institute "Sandro Pertini" in Afragola, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u146	I declare the debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u147	Mr President, let us consider this particularly dangerous moment for all the democratic and Western states, because - we will have noticed this - a genuinely terrorist state has been established. I am referring to ISIS, which today has taken on all its constituent elements in order to be defined as a State: it has its own territory, its own sovereignty, its own political bodies and administrative bodies, it has its own budget and, therefore, we must consider it to be a terrorist state. We know that, not only because services have been monitoring the area for a long time, but even a large international network, such as CNN, has already reported that 800 ISIS members are on the African and Libyan coasts, ready to leave for Europe. The first port, or the most natural, is definitely Italy. We do not know if this will be the destination, but we know that if one or more of these 800 ISIS members arrive, perhaps mixed among the poor, the illegals and the refugees, once in our country, once in Europe, we can imagine the purpose of their visit. This terrorist organization for the time being seems relatively little considered or poorly fought. There are very few countries that have done very few and minute interventions, such as the Americans and the British, mostly adopting the techniques of overflight and aerial bombardment, sometimes even with drones without pilot. The only ones who can effectively combat ISIS are those poor Turks, who are really at risk of disappearing and who, perhaps through training, culture and history, have always had to fight. Therefore, organized even militarily (we speak of peshmerga), they are trying to defend themselves in the meantime, but basically the whole world, because they are the only bulwark and the only contrast to the expansion of this machine of terrorism that has now become a terrorist state. It seems that the initial veto of Turkey has also failed, which saw the possibility of helping the irregular army, autonomous, peshmerga as a potential armament of the PKK, which we know has always had problems or at Turkish level the veto; it is a party outside the constitutional arc, it is a party banned and even put on the famous black list of parties or terrorist organizations. Having said that, I would like to make a reference to the Italian policies which have always seen with extreme tranquility and ease the opening up to Turkey in Europe. On the matter of extending too far eastwards or towards the Middle East the possibility of bringing states into the Schengen area, today the position of the North League has become extremely topical. What would have happened, what would happen if we had quit or let go of the brakes and Turkey was in Europe today? Turkey in Europe means Turkey in the Schengen area, it means no border control, no freedom of movement. We know the borders of that area of Kurdistan that we call border-gravy: how many people could have arrived in Turkey with ease and, once there, would have been essentially free to move across Europe? That is why the North League proposed that the entire Italian Parliament should take the time to consider the opportunity and the risks of bringing Turkey to Europe. The reasoning was that, even though Turkey had a European economy, even though it had taken steps in the legislative field, by receiving, from torture to the death penalty, a European criminal and civil code-making system, it is, however, in a geographical area of extreme risk and we cannot too easily pretend that there are no such risks. We probably avoided a big mistake; better still, they made us avoid it perhaps a little by force. If we had followed the directions of the President of the United States, all of Europe would immediately side with the famous freedom guerrillas that would have allowed Syrian President Assad to be disemboweled, probably considered a bad president for the United States. Fortunately, Putin's Russia gave a cough saying that we were probably wrong, that there was no need to intervene, because there would be exactly another question of the type of one that happened in Afghanistan with the Taliban: we would have armed ISIS guerrillas, who would have more easily undermined an entire state, and the area of occupation or influence of ISIS would not be that, but it would probably be very different and much wider. The Americans made the same mistake in Afghanistan: thinking of driving the Russians out, they went to ally with the Taliban, they gave support perhaps also of military type and in terms of armaments. The Americans are still there; we luckily will return home at the end of this December, but for 12 years we had to come across a war beyond the borders. We are talking about a mission of peace, but we have left more than 50 of our soldiers in that country to fight those who before the Americans, judging them as friends, had supported, helped and militarily equipped. The same mistake would have occurred, but, fortunately, Putin's Russia prevented this from happening again. We should therefore reconsider, perhaps also ourselves, the opportunity to remain in a European Community which, unfortunately, for the Ukrainian question, continues to declare war on Russia (clearly a non-military but economic war) and imposes economic sanctions on all states, including Italy, which do not sanction Russia, but even sanction our companies, which, already in difficulty, renounce one of the few expanding markets for basic goods (greens, meat, fruit and dairy products), basic productions for many of our Italian companies. We would like to highlight this aspect and therefore ask Senator De Cristofaro, as the first signatory, and the SEL Group to introduce a later step into their motion, which we could accept. More than focusing on Öcalan as a leader of the PKK, which is now considered a terrorist organization, which is inscribed in a black book, would it not have been the case, colleagues of SEL, to quote Karayilan, which seems to me the current leader, much more willing to dialogue than to use other systems of armed struggle? With that leader it seems to me that the Turkish Government is also beginning negotiations (and Europe is supporting them) to reach agreements. We would like all the Kurdish people, broken between Syria, Iran, Iraq and Turkey, to find unity, territorial integrity and a minimum of independence and autonomy, as well as unity. In fact, we have four borders of four states that actually break up a people that has a history and a culture and that at this moment - let us repeat once again - is lined up in the first person to face the most important danger, the worst threat that the West is going through. If I may, Mr President, I propose that we add a second point to Senator De Cristofaro's first-signed motion No 333, which reads as follows: In the context of the negotiations already under way between Turkey and the European Union, the legitimate independence aspirations of the Kurdish people should be given due and positive consideration by the Turkish Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u148	I think I've seen some hints of consent from Senator De Cristofaro. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political and cultural conflict between the countries of Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria and the Kurdish minority has a long history behind it. The Kurdish people are the largest landless people on the planet. It is one of the most important and ancient civilizations of the East, yet this basic and fundamental truth often remains in the shadows. The Kurdish people want to be recognized by the states in which they live, they want to be able to make use of their own language and tradition, but above all they want the democratization of the countries that control Kurdistan. These exact claims have always led to brutal oppression against them by the individual governments that occupy Kurdistan. Often, for Kurds fleeing repression the dream of living in a free and independent Kurdistan ended up on the Apulian and Calabrian coasts or in other European countries. Therefore, to frame the Kurdish question in terms of terrorism, far from ending violence, further feeds conflict and resentment. Thousands of peaceful human rights activists and demonstrators, as well as elected politicians, lawyers and journalists, have been imprisoned in Turkey for completely non-violent activities, considered by the Turkish security apparatus as acts of terrorism against the State. Furthermore, the peace talks that were announced at the end of 2012 and the ceasefire proclaimed subsequently by Abdullah Òcalan laid the foundations for the start of a process that could lead to peace in Turkey and self-determination for the Kurdish people. However, as long as the PKK remains on the list of international terrorist organisations, these talks will hardly turn into actual negotiations. We must remember that some of the most important representatives of the Kurdish people are still in prison, including Abdullah Òcalan himself. The PKK came to the fore in our country in the fall of 1998, when Òcalan arrived in Rome and asked for political asylum in Italy. The government had the center-left and the President of the Council was Massimo D'Alema. The story is known and represents one of the most shameful moments of Italian foreign policy. Unable to manage the hot potato, at pressure from the USA and Turkey, D'Alema invited Òcalan to leave the country. The Kurdish leader then moved to Nairobi, where he was captured by Turkish services, who brought him back to their country. Since then, the PKK has been one of the many names of our bad conscience. It is also good to point out that the PKK has nothing to do with the Kurdish Peshmerga, which is constantly mentioned by our media in information about the Middle East and, more particularly, the Syrian conflict. When last summer, ISIS conquered large portions of Iraqi Kurdistan, occupying important cities such as Mosul and Makhnour, massacred civilians, the Kurdish Peshmerga failed to stem the offensive. It's the same Peshmerga that the Western Gates are aiming to defeat the Caliphate's fanatics. Instead, it was the forces of the YPG, People's Protection Unit, close to the Kurdish Democratic Union Party, the Syrian counterpart of the PKK, and the Kurdish Workers' Party itself, which stopped the advance of ISIS and saved numerous civilians. The PKK is a secular, socialist, libertarian and feminist mass force. They are supported by the people. Millions of people regard them as their legitimate representatives. Labeling the PKK as a "terrorist" corresponds to a miserable gift given to Turkey by the rest of NATO. There is no distinction in those lists between cruel, barbaric, inhuman criminals and political forces that defy the interests of the status quo. The inclusion in the blacklist has only led to a brutal criminalisation of the political dissent of the voices in favour of the Kurds, creating a multitude of political prisoners whose amnesty must be a condition for an accomplished peace process. The Italian Government must therefore engage in appropriate international fora so that the PKK is removed as soon as possible from the lists of terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u150	The debate is closed. Colleagues, I have been told by the Groups that I am trying to converge on one or any other smaller number of documents to be put to the vote. In order for the Government also to have at its disposal the object to be replicated, I refer the continuation of the discussion of motions in title to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u153	DI BIAGIO (PI). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to bring to this House the voice of the many volunteers of the Italian Red Cross who this morning began a peaceful and silent protest, from men of the institutions who are, in front of Montecitorio, to point out the dramatic situation that affects the institution. Colleagues, in the Italian Red Cross there is a forced privatization. It is a privatisation which has a very high cost to the State, both economically and organisationally and in terms of employment. The whole community risks losing a wealth of resources, structures, personnel, training and experience, without any objective economic benefit, but with an exaggerated increase in costs for public finances. The Court of Auditors' report says that, in the last year in which privatisation was almost completed, the institution's deficit has increased by 200 percent. At this point in the situation it is clear that there are opposing forces and someone is in favour of privatisation which risks compromising the future of a reality of recognized excellence. All this has to find a solution, because we will all be paying for it. It is not possible for volunteers working in the field of assistance and solidarity with internationally recognised competence and professionalism to find no voice and answer to their legitimate demands. I know that the government's attention on this matter is high, but I ask once more that action be taken to stop unnecessary privatisation and to rethink the reorganization of the agency in respect of its natural vocation and of the many volunteers, civil and military, who have always been the backbone of our health care and social assistance system. I also ask the Government to provide guarantees for the protection of the Italian Red Cross.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-359.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.40 a.m.
