ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 24 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u3	Senator Petrocelli, I understand you're asking for the floor for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u5	PETROCELLI (M5S). Exact intuition. I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u6	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported) I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u7	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u10	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u11	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u12	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u13	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u14	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:27 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u15	I communicate that on 24 April 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 66 of 24 April 2014 on urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice" (1465).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1450, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senator Zanoni and Senator Zeller, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni. (Brusio). Colleagues, please be silent, so that the rapporteur can carry out the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u17	Madam President, Senators, Senators, it is with a little trepidation that I am going to illustrate the bill of conversion, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 16 of 6 March 2014, approved at first reading by the House of Deputies. Synthetically nicknamed save Rome 3, in fact it contains numerous measures concerning the local authorities and the regions that are waiting for them. It is no longer the same text as the so-called provisions save Rome 1 and 2; it has been greatly improved by the whole discussion that has taken place in recent months. In advance, it is noted that the measure is provided with the updated technical report, pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 8, of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance. With regard to the profiles of interest of the 5th Commission, Article 1, paragraph 2, of the Decree-Law provides for the coverage of the increase of the State contribution to the Municipalities, through the reduction of 118,156 million euros of the Fund for urgent and indifferent needs and 6,844 million euros of the Fund for structural interventions of economic policy. Article 2-a refers to the postponement of the deadline for the resolution of the forecast balance sheet for the 2014 financial year of local authorities, from 30 April 2014 to 31 July 2014. Allow me to make a statement to the budget: the extension is necessary for our fault, because the state does not provide in good time all the information necessary for local authorities to adopt the budget. Let us remember that it is a duty, but it is also a right of the municipalities to be able to express their budgets and to be able to work in an orderly manner within their communities. Article 3 contains a number of amendments to the single text of the local authorities, with a view to giving greater flexibility to the multiannual financial rebalancing procedure for local authorities: a new plan is accepted, including as a result of the refusal by the municipal council or the Court of Auditors; the time when the local authority can use the procedure for rebalancing is extended; the activation of loans beyond the existing limits is permitted; plans can be re-modulated in some cases. In addition, for municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants planning a reduction of at least 20% in service costs and the rationalisation of participating companies, they are allowed to achieve a balance within a maximum period of three years. Finally, the possibility for subsidiaries to apply mobility processes between companies is widened, eliminating the constraint of consistency with their professional system. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani, I invite you to lower your voice. ZANONI, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. Article 3-a reduces the minimum amount of the local government credit devaluation Fund and the amount of the local government credit write-down Fund for liquidity advances granted for the payment of past dues by these institutions, from 25% to 20% and 30% to 20% respectively of the assets remaining under Titles I and III of the entry, which are over five years old. This is a measure strongly awaited by local authorities, which have great difficulty in implementing this rule in a short time, especially with regard to very large authorities. Article 4 provides for a specific procedure for the gradual absorption of the sums allocated to the staff of the regions and local authorities in breach of the financial constraints imposed on supplementary collective bargaining. Paragraphs 3-a to 3-c allow the payment by regions and local authorities of the benefits of workers who are socially useful for the remuneration earned during the period 2010-2013, in compliance with the Internal Stability Pact and, in any case, ensuring the safeguarding of budgetary balances. Article 5 allows local authorities, for the years 2014 and 2015, to take on new loans and access to other forms of financing available on the market, beyond the limits of 8% of the revenue set by the single text of local authorities for an amount not exceeding the capital shares of loans and bonds previously contracted, repaid in the previous year. This is a very long-awaited measure, also in order to trigger again the lever of development in communities. Article 7 introduces provisions for the verification of IMU revenue for the year 2013. Given that of course the 2013 budgets are already closed, I would ask the Government to pay attention to the modalities of application. Article 8 provides for the provision of an advance of 20 percent of what is due for the year 2014 as a municipal solidarity fund to the municipalities of the Sicilian Region and the Region of Sardinia. Article 9 reduces, as from 2014, the ordinary contribution to local authorities by EUR 7 million for the Provinces and EUR 118 million for the Municipalities. Article 10 confirms, for the year 2014, the modalities of repartition to the Provinces of the Experimental Rebalancing Fund, already adopted by ministerial decree of 4 May 2012. Reductions in resources for the revision of expenditure and transfers to the Sicilian and Sardinian provinces are also confirmed. Article 11 amends the rules of the provincial and municipal end-of-term report in order to simplify its drafting and publication procedure. Let me say something about this: the end-of-term report is an important instrument of transparency; making it more simplified probably facilitates the municipalities in its drafting, which, moreover, seems very important for the sake of political and administrative transparency. The article 12, paragraph 1, intervenes on the beginning of the delivery of the extraordinary contribution for the mergers of Municipalities; to the paragraph l- bis allocates to the Regione Emilia-Romagna the sums entered in residual account for the year 2014 on the fund destined to the supply of contributions to the natural persons for the reduction of the price of gasoline and diesel for automotive to the pump, which extraordinary contribution pairs to 2 million euros. Article 13 provides that the financing allocated to the Municipality of Lampedusa and Linosa from the Development Fund of the smaller islands, for the year 2008 and 2009, is entirely paid out and intended for the realization of urgent interventions of the Municipality related to the reception of refugees and the primary needs of the island community. Article 14 deals with the discipline of the Municipal Solidarity Fund, establishing that 10% of the Fund under consideration is distributed among the municipalities on the basis of standard requirements, specifying that tax capacities must also be taken into account. This is also an important provision, reflecting the work done by the Bicameral Commission on fiscal federalism on the definition of standard needs and costs. Article 15, paragraph 1, clarifies that, for the Provinces that in 2009 were affected by the break-up of newly established Provinces, the objective of the Internal Stability Pact is calculated by assuming the current expenditure of the two-year period 2010-2011, instead of the three-year period 2009-2011; in paragraph l-a it provides for an mitigation of sanctions for the Provinces that have not complied with the Stability Pact. Article 16 contains provisions on Roma Capitale. I believe that a fair balance has been struck between the need to help and support the Municipality of Rome to overcome the budgetary difficulties and the necessary assumption of responsibility by the Municipality itself with a three-year plan which provides for the reduction of the deficit and the structural rebalancing of the budget, waste management measures, subsidiaries and subsidiaries, tax and tariff evasion. In fact, it is expected that by 4 July 2014 the Municipality will send a report highlighting the causes of the deficit formation and adopt a three-year plan for the reduction of the deficit and for the structural rebalancing of the budget, which must be approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. It also authorizes the extraordinary commissioner of the Government for the Municipality of Rome to insert, in the passive mass of the debt of the Municipality of Rome, additional debits for a total of 115 million euros. Finally, the finalization of resources, amounting to 12 million euros in 2014 and 10,5 million euros in 2015, is expected to ensure the implementation of planned interventions to overcome the ongoing crisis in waste management in the territory of Rome, after validation by the Ministry of the environment of the three-year work programme on separate collection. Article 17 provides for the payment, by the State, to Trenitalia of the amount of 13,4 million euros for consideration of the services rendered in the first seven months of 2014 in Valle d'Aosta. Article 18 refers, to paragraph 1, provisions aimed at limiting, in the year 2014, the application of certain sanctions provided for in the current legislation for the failure to comply with the Stability Pact against the Municipalities of Venice and Chioggia. The paragraph l-a contains a rule of authentic interpretation of paragraph 76 of Article 1 of Law No 311 of 2004, concerning the arrangements for the inclusion in the balance sheet of debt and income deriving from loans. Article 19 extends to 31 March 2014 (instead of 28 February 2014 originally planned) the deadline set by the 2014 Stability Act for the continuation of contracts concluded by state educational and educational institutions for the purchase of cleaning services and other auxiliary services. The paragraph l- bis previews that the resources destined from article 18, paragraph 8-a, of the decree-law n. 69 of 2013 to the safety of the school buildings, pairs to 3,5 million euros for each of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, are also aimed to guarantee the continuation of the activities of monitoring of the seismic risk. It is also envisaged that the implementing decree should no longer identify the institutions to be entrusted with the above activities. Article 20 provides for financial facilities in favour of the Province and the Municipality of L'Aquila, as well as the other municipalities of the crater, affected by the earthquake of April 2009. Article 20-a allocates a share of the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund, amounting to EUR 50 million, which will be made available as a result of the verification of the actual state of implementation of the actions foreseen under the 2007-2013 programming, to the financing of the National Emergency Fund. For all that said, and with the awareness that the measure has taken into account the debate and the observations that the Senate expressed in the discussions on the so-called provisions save Rome 1 and 2, I believe that this measure is necessary and urgent for the local authorities, the Regions and for the country and that it must be voted in its entirety. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u18	I greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Capraro-Scialoja" of Procida, in the province of Naples. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u19	I call the rapporteur, Senator Zeller.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u20	Madam President, as regards the provisions of direct interest of the 6th Commission, first of all Article 1 amending certain provisions on TARI and TASI introduced by the Stability Act of 2014. More in detail, paragraph 1, letter a), allows municipalities, for 2014, to exceed the limit of 2,5 per thousand foreseen for the determination of the rates TASI 2014, for a total amount not exceeding 0,8 per thousand. This possibility is conditional on the financing of tax deductions or other measures on the main dwellings and the units comparable to them which have an effect on the TASI charge equivalent to or less than those determined with reference to the IMU for the same type of buildings. Point (b) amends paragraph 688 of the 2014 Stability Act concerning the payment methods of the TASI and the TARI. In particular, the method of payment of the TASI is made homogeneous with those of the IMU, eliminating the other methods of payment provided for by the original legislation. The Chamber of Deputies has made a series of amendments to the text according to which: the TASI must be paid in two instalments, which expire on the first of June 16 and the second of December 16, in analogy with the provisions of the IMU; the payment of the first installment TASI is made on the basis of the rate and deductions of the previous 12 months, while the balance must take into account the acts published by the Municipality by 28 October; for buildings other than the main dwelling, for 2014 the payment of the first installment is made on the basis of the basic rate TASI (equal to 1 per thousand) if the Municipality has not resolved a different rate by 31 May 2014, while the payment of the balance is made on the basis of the deliberations of the City Council; for buildings used as principal dwelling, for the first year of application of the TASI, the payment of the tax is made in a single instalment by the end of 16 December 2014, unless, on 31 May 2014, the date of the tax federalism Portal is published the resolution of approval of the rates and deductions. Point (c) introduces a deadline for direct custody and the possibility of entrusting the management of the assessment and collection of the Tariff only to persons already entrusted with waste services. The Chamber has also added the letter c- bis ), according to which, from the year of tax 2013, in the case of properties subject to timeshare, the payment of the IMU is made by the administrator of the property, who can withdraw the amount necessary from the common fund, assigning the allowances to the individual holders with charge in the annual statement. This brings with it a clear simplification. For 2014, point (d) provides a contribution of EUR 625 million for municipalities. The way in which this contribution is allocated must take account of the standard and actual flows of IMU and TASI. The Chamber has also added paragraph 1-a, which states that for the year 2013 are valid the resolutions of institution or change of the municipal addition to the income tax of natural persons, approved within the terms of law and communicated by 31 December 2013. Paragraph 2 provides for the coverage of the charges deriving from the previous letter d), while paragraph 3, modified by the Chamber, regulates the hypotheses of exemption from the TASI, with a provision that follows the provisions regarding IMU. They are therefore exempt from the tax: the buildings of the State and of the territorial authorities owned on their territory, as well as the buildings of the institutions of the National Health Service, intended exclusively for institutional tasks; the unguarded alpine shelters, the points of support and the bivouacs; the buildings listed in Article 7 (1) (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (i) of Legislative Decree No 504 of 1992, i.e. the buildings classified in the cadastral categories from E/1 to E/9 (stations, bridges, buildings intended for public needs, etc.); buildings intended for cultural purposes; buildings intended exclusively for the exercise of worship; buildings owned by the Holy See referred to in the Lateran Treaty; buildings belonging to foreign States and international organizations, for which exemption from local taxes on the income of buildings is provided; buildings used by non-commercial entities for non-commercial activities. Article 2, paragraph 1, contains a series of amendments to the 2014 Stability Act. In particular, point (a) removes the obligation for those who intend to buy online advertising services to purchase them from persons holding a VAT number issued by the Italian financial administration. The letter a-a), which was added by the Chamber, includes provisions aimed at introducing the possibility of incentivised dissolution, i.e. of alienation of companies controlled by local government. The letter e), as amended by the Chamber, leaves to the municipal regulations any reductions of the TARI for assimilated waste started to recycling by the producer, directly or through authorized subjects. The Chamber has also introduced a new letter e-quater) with which paragraph 661 of Article 1 of the 2014 Stability Act is repealed, which provides that the tax is not due in relation to the quantities of assimilated waste that the producer proves to have begun to recover. Point (f), which is also important, amends the tax requirement of the TASI and excludes the application of the tax to agricultural land. Point (g) makes TASI subject to open areas and non-occupied condominium areas on an exclusive basis. I too agree with the opinion of the rapporteur for the 5th standing Commission and I believe that this measure is urgent and must be converted into law as soon as possible, as the expiry of the decree-law will come at an early date. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u21	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked to speak to Senator Mandelli to explain it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u22	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this decree-law again proposes a series of rules, already contained in other government measures, which have subsequently fallen, which could not be the subject of an emergency measure, being characterised by an uneven content and without constitutional requirements, also in view of the recent calls made by the President of the Republic. The content of the decree-law proposes in fact a series of provisions of absolute heterogeneity, within which there are evident discrepancies, which make manifest the absence of the appropriate coordination of the norms, which consequently compromise the characteristics of unitity and all-inclusiveness of the decree of urgency and foreshadow an obvious violation of the constraint implicitly provided by Article 77 of the Constitution, explicitly reaffirmed by Article 15 of the Law of 23 August 1988, n. 400. Similar remarks can be made with regard to the individual rules, which are all characterized by the lack of requirements of necessity and urgency. Arbitrary arrangements for local taxation have been brought together; rules for the definition of financial relations between Rome capital and commissioner management, through a three-year return plan; provisions for rail transport in regions with special status; rules for cleaning and auxiliary services in schools and, finally, rules for overcoming the consequences of the earthquake in the Abruzzo region in April 2009. Further critical aspects and complex assessment of the coherence of legislative procedures are revealed by the non-compliance with the constitutional dictation referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 81, with particular reference to Article 16 of the decree under consideration, within the framework of the provisions concerning Rome Capital, and, in particular, the measures aimed at regulating the financial relations of Rome Capital with the management of the commissioner. Article 16, paragraph 5, substantially reproduces the content of Article 4, paragraphs 1 to 1-c, of Decree-Law No 151 of 2013, subsequently lapsed, transfers to the government management certain debts entered in the budget of the Municipality of Rome, compensating the relative mail with a generic reference to possible credits boasted by the commissioner's management towards the companies participated by the Municipality of Rome, without identifying the relative debtor, the amount of the individual credits and above all their solvency over time; at the same time, however, an additional net charge of 85 million euros is charged to increase the number of depreciation installments charged to the budget of the State without preparing the necessary means of financial coverage. The provisions in comment reveal further elements of complication that strengthen the conviction that the decree-law 6 March 2014, n. 16, contains norms that do not comply with the constitutional requirement provided for in article 81, fourth paragraph, for the purpose of the payment of the installments by the participating companies, deriving from the reacquisition of the credits from Rome Capital, through the use of the fees due by the institution to its participants in the service contracts. However, the above rule, by delimiting the budgetary appropriations actually available from the said institution, does not specify the possibility that these appropriations may be lower than the amount of the fees due. A circumstance of obvious anomaly whose failure to reconcile debts and creditors, determined by the presence of a credit mass boasted by the company to a greater extent than the debts (residual liabilities) of the local institution, was also reported by the Court of Auditors, in the report on the coordination of public finance in 2013. With regard to this article, it should be pointed out that the Budget Service of the Chamber of Deputies has previously indicated that the rule, like those of similar object contained in the decrees-deceased laws, operates a shift of debits and creditors between the budgets of Rome Capital and the management of the commissioner, consolidating the capital position of the first subject at the expense of the second person to whom debits are transferred and creditor lots are taken away. The Budget Service has also asked: to clarify, not being modified, the amount of resources transferred annually from the budget of the State and from the Municipality of Rome to the management commissioner, as to the increase of the passive mass provided for by the norm can be faced with the aforementioned resources that, while being of a permanent nature, are of predetermined annual amount; to dispose, in view of the succession of provisions of partially different content, although regulating the same matter, whose effects are without prejudice to the measure under consideration, of the overall picture of the places moved in the financial relations between the Municipality of Rome and the management commissioner, clarifying, from the quantitative point of view, how the new text of the provision intervenes with respect to the pre-existing norms; to provide, in particular, clarifications with reference to the various measures provided for in paragraph 5, from the point of view of budgetary balances. The Service of the budget has, moreover, indicated that the norm turns out to be different regarding the corresponding provision contained in the decrees-laws 31 October 2013, n. 126 and 30 December 2013, n. 151, fallen, that authorized the extraordinary commissioner to enter in the passive mass, for the purposes of their reinstatement, the sums paid to the Municipality of Rome as an anticipation for the year 2009 and transferred to the management commissioner, pursuant to paragraph 3 of article 5 of the decree-law 7 October 2008, n. 154. This last provision referred to the CIPE Resolution of 30 September 2008, which allocated EUR 500 million to Rome for 2009. In the answer given by the Ministry of Economy and Finance - Department of General Accounting of the State - regarding the clarifications required on the aforementioned Article 16, by the Budget Service of the Chamber of Deputies, we read: In this respect, it is represented that the increase in the passive mass, in constancy of resources aimed at financing it, determines only an extension of the times for the definitive liquidation of the passive mass itself. With regard to the amount to be included in the passive mass as additional debits prior to 28 April 2008, it is considered that the rule under consideration resulted in a reduction from EUR 115 million to EUR 30 million. It should be noted, then, that the definition of the nature of the debits to be included in the said passive mass is entrusted to specific management decisions of Rome Capital. As regards the request by the Budget Service for an updated and explanatory picture of the net creditor consignments removed from the Commissioner's management, please refer to the data that may be provided in this regard by the Commissioner's management. With reference to the information requested on the service contract referred to in Article 5 of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on 5 December 2008 and the criteria for quantifying the resources collected in implementation of the service contract itself, please refer to the Treasury Department. The main issues that can be found in general by the regulatory framework provided for by this decree-law, in addition to the aforementioned importance of unconstitutionality with regard to financial profiles, are the same as a sequence of decree-laws previously submitted to Parliament's examination: disorganicity, occasionality, heterogeneity of content, highlighted by the same title, which brings, brought together without any connection, measures considered urgent in the field of finance of regions and local authorities, interventions on rail transport located in the territory and the presence of numerous rules of order that therefore constitute elements not in conformity with what established by the Constitution in the matter of urgent decree. The reasons for the repeal of paragraph 33 of Article 1 of Law No 147 of 2013 (Stability Act 2014) are not understood; it is recalled that this paragraph introduced the obligation, for taxable persons who intend to purchase online advertising services, to make such purchases from persons holding Italian VAT. The same obligation is laid down for online advertising spaces and sponsored links appearing in the search engine results pages, which can be viewed on the Italian territory, including through fixed network or network and mobile devices. During the examination in Commissions V and VI to the Chamber of Deputies, a paragraph was also added concerning the deletion of paragraph 12-a of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 concerning the payment of the second instalment of the municipal tax own (IMU) for 2013. The abovementioned paragraph 12-a provided for the non-application of sanctions and interest in the event of insufficient payment of the second instalment of the IMU if the difference had been paid by the deadline of 24 January. Finally, the subscribers note that the same bill of conversion, in addition to maintaining the same heterogeneity in the contents of the previous decrees-laws n. 126 and n. 151 of 2013, subsequently decayed, presents provisions in reality not repeatable, because already officially established through the letter of the Head of State of 27 December 2013, and consequently unsuitable to be conveyed through the instrument of the decree of urgency. For all these reasons we ask for the vote in favour of the question referred by the undersigned on behalf of the entire Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u23	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative for each parliamentary group may speak in the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u26	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to subscribe to this question because it is entirely acceptable, for the reasons that I will not repeat, but that Senator Mandelli has well understood and developed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u29	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I too would like to subscribe to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, because what Senator Mandelli has said is entirely acceptable. Let me also add another assessment of the iniquity factor of this measure. It is unfair because it treats the municipalities differently from one another: it protects bad administrations and instead penalises good administrations. The bad administrators have a serious responsibility, because if they have brought their City into disrepute they should be penalized and they should be moved towards the actions of responsibility. What do we do with this measure instead? Practically we go to help them, as if to say to them: you have wrong but it doesn't matter, so continue so that there is no problem, because there will always be all the other municipalities that make the savings and will pay for you. Therefore, this provision is highly unfair, and I have already announced that I am voting against the draft law and that I am voting in favour of this question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u30	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Mandelli and other senators. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u31	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on finally puts an end to a winding path which has taken this branch of Parliament for several months. In addition to the measures for Rome Capital, to which we hope to finally deliver a stable framework in order to build a serious and rigorous budget, the decree regulates the introduction of the various municipal taxes, such as TARI and TASI; Finally, all the municipalities are in a position to no longer work in twelfths, but to approve their respective budgets. The extension contained in the decree itself, which sets the deadline for 31 July, is essential, but this, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, must be pointed out as a weak point, not as a strong point. Already last year we arrived at the paradox whereby the deadline for approving the forecast budget coincided with the final adjustment, even with the appendix of the mini-IMU postponed to the following year. All this, among other things, has ended up creating a climate of confusion and uncertainty that then did not reveal the real scope of last year's measure, which consisted in the abolition of the IMU on the first house. I believe that, from now on, we must restore stability and uniformity in the measures affecting local authorities, so that mayors can be in a position both to present the forecast budget before the beginning of the current year and to be able to start again to make three-year programming, i.e. to rely on a stable regulatory and tax framework. From this point of view, there is still a long way to go, and a decisive role we can play with fiscal federalism and the application of standard costs. A path that finally leads us to a real fiscal autonomy and to a system of federalism solidarity and fairness, in which the State is to seriously control the merits, but does not expect - as often happens - to over-normalize, up to the smallest details, the methods of management of local taxes. We believe that this would also simplify, that is to say, to give an address, a common primary rule, which, however, leaves to the individual territories the real power to conclude community pacts between the citizens and the individual local administrations. Today TARI and TASI, together with the IMU on properties other than the first house and land, represent the portfolio of municipalities in order to continue to provide the necessary services. I think this should never be forgotten. Of course, it is a wallet that must be used with care and thrift, as it goes directly into the pockets of the citizens. For example, the possibility of introducing 0.8 per thousand on TASI for the sole purpose of applying the deductions delivered to the mayors a very strong measure to achieve tax equity and social justice. It is an instrument that must not be dispersed. I shall conclude, Madam President, by being a signatory to an agenda, the G7100, briefly explaining the problem specifically affecting all municipalities in the Emilian crater affected by the 2012 earthquake. The situation that is growing is paradoxical, and for this reason I invite the Government to address it also in close concentration with the ANCI and the delegated commission in the distribution of the Solidarity Fund. It is the return, precisely through the Fund, of the IMU not collected by the municipalities as a result of the inagibility of houses and sheds due to the earthquake. In 2012 a special fund was allocated to restore the municipalities themselves compared to the lack of revenue deriving from the inaccessible buildings. In 2013, due to the abolition of the IMU on the first house, it saw a crooked calculation of refunds, which ended up penalising the most affected municipalities. 2014, however, is even more complex and will generate a very strange paradox. First, these municipalities, when calculating the tax of TASI and IMU, can only take into account all the assets available, accessible and unattainable. It can only be so, otherwise it would mean that the part of the population that owns the agible heritage should overcharge the taxes due also by the owners of the inaccessible heritage. This has two negative effects: the first is a lack of real revenue in the coffers of the municipalities, for which we call, through the Solidarity Fund, for reimbursement. The second effect is also a lack of revenue from the tax on real estate for productive use, classified in cadastral category D, vis-à-vis the State. The curious fact is that then the State, due to a lower revenue than the standard rate, further cuts the Solidarity Fund in the municipalities in question. It is very important for the Government to take a firm stand on this issue, which we wanted to address not with an amendment but with an agenda, because it is important to consult with the National Solidarity Fund. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this could have been a good turning point, or it could have been an example of how things should be done differently. In fact, this is not the case, not least because this measure, with the good peace of the rapporteur, to whom we wish good luck for this task, is the third time he has returned to the Chamber. It is not a coincidence, because on the two previous occasions, either because of negligence in the drafting of the text or because of the shame that the Government then had to endure, the provision, as we know, has not been converted. Today it presents itself under the lie of a false rigor that would like to bring the City of Rome to more meek advice on spending, while in the reality of the facts all this is hidden under a blanket of smoke and, once again, there are expenses superimposed at expense, with absolute uncertainty about what will be the future of the economy of the Municipality of Rome and, of course, of the other municipalities of Italy that pay the price for the City of Rome. This is what must be remembered and said, because in this measure privileges are provided for Rome Capital and at the same time sacrifices are foreseen for the other municipalities: this is the equation for which the Government is making itself responsible. Tell me if this can be called a good turnaround! As always, the measure also contains a number of other heterogeneous initiatives, including the one that is now absolutely ridiculous, the extension of budgets for public administrations: last year we arrived in November, this time we set ourselves July. We already know that we will arrive in July and there will be no deadlines and that these will be extended again to September, and then from September they will be brought to October and from October to November, going to teas us. On these things there must be a good turnout! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In demonstrating that the municipalities are not only simple opportunities for juice but also realities in which, even today, citizens are committed in a civic spirit, contrary to party politics which, as is happening on this measure, still makes customers. In this measure there are still all the premises of the clientele, and this is also the mirror of the decadence of Rome. And I regret to say that, because Rome deserves much more; its honest citizens, those who pay taxes, deserve more respect than what a mayor like Marino gives. Let us remember that we are talking about a city that has not had a problem since today, but for years, and where the last twelve months have produced no initiative of the administration to go against the trend. Nothing! In fact, the indecorous spectacle that a tourist is witnessing today when he adventures in the Pantheon Square is that he cannot even photograph a monument without tripping into some abusive seller. Not even on these aspects the municipality can be credible! So how can you expect the whole country to have credit for government policies? The measure includes, among other things, measures that may escape the press and public opinion, but certainly do not escape a meticulous reading. In fact, where the obligation for the Municipality of Rome to take initiatives to reduce expenditure was to be provided for, as in Article 16, that the procedures, in order to pursue the balance where necessary, will be done. Thanks to this "where necessary," since, as the proverb says, it is in the details that the devil hides, we will find ourselves in a year with the same situations unchanged and with the responsibilities that, this time, will be at the head of the Renzi Government, and not the Led Government, as in the past. Here, too, there is a strange similarity. Renzi makes this pass as the "good turn": it is a pity that the subjects are the same, since those who signed the measures of the first decree save Rome and of the second one are the same majority and the same people, who still find themselves in this provision. Here lies the falsehood: in passing a measure like this with a discussion that will be limited to the minimum, with amendments that will be reduced, in the debate, to the minimum, in a pre-election period in which everything must be muffled because it is not necessary to disturb the maneuverer. A maneuver to whom it is also convenient to have people like the mayor of Roma Marino on his leash. The municipalities today are forced to stay on the leash of the government, either because they need money, like the City of Rome, or because they cut them. Then why not think that this will be the future of the Senate of the Republic, composed of these people? Guys on a leash! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is what Renzi wants. Mayors on the leash of government finance, which can be resumed according to convenience, giving or taking away money. That is what we do not want, and that is why we tell citizens to be careful and to open their eyes to these measures. The difference could have been made, yes: but how could it have been done with the same people? I must say that the "good turn" could come, for example, by giving a positive response not only to the citizens of the Eagle and the Eagle crater affected by the earthquake, but also to those of Emilia, Lombardy and Mantovano, hit by an earthquake and a flood, which instead will have to be satisfied and trust in a resolution approved by the Agriculture Commission and an agenda that presented our Group to this measure, and that we hope is at least approved by the Senate. Trusting this government, however, is a difficult task. Madam President, let me just remind you of the Government's commitment to employing 512 police officers in this House, who were not then hired. We see credibility here: we cannot say that we will commit ourselves, even by accepting an agenda transformed into a recommendation and then disappear as hidden behind the smoke. On these things we do not forgive the Government, we mark it tight and we say clearly and roundly that we must assume our responsibilities. But let's not be fooled, fellow senators. Be honest with yourself and face the reality: we are faced with measures that predict that the City of Rome will cut. But do you cut where, if there are realities like ATAC that can't even perform their service if not producing a debt of 1.6 billion euros? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And while we approve of this provision, this is what goes into the newsstands of the city. (Senator Candiani shows a copy of the weekly "Roma Lavoro"). Madam President, it says here: 'Ultime'. ATAC: 380 drivers on the surface of the vehicle. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude because your time is up. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I know it bothers you, but that is the reality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it doesn't bother me, but please finish. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). New recruitments for ATAC at the time when sacrifices are demanded from other citizens to give Rome a solution. This is the respect that is given to all honest workers of ATAC and all other Italian municipalities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let us remember that Rome has 50,000 employees in its participants, as many as all the other municipalities of Italy put together. It is from these things that one must see the seriousness of the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Malan and Zanettin. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u34	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u35	Madam President, fellow Senators, representative of the Government, according to the merit of the measure, in fact with the conversion of Decree-Law 6 March 2014, n. 16 some fundamental criticalities in the area of local taxation are resolved. As has been pointed out by other colleagues and the rapporteur who spoke before me, we are going to improve the regulatory framework for our administrators, who over the last few years, alongside the reduction of the resources available, have had to cope with major changes in the regulatory nature. I would like to highlight some aspects other than those already highlighted. Article 1 allows the municipalities to finance tax deductions on the first house in order to leave unchanged the impact of the new levy on the indivisible services compared to what was paid during 2013 under IMU on the first house and its appliances. Today, the mayors will be able to finance the facilities by applying the additional rate of 0.8 per thousand on the other cases, taxable in order to ensure the balance of the municipal accounts. In order to achieve this goal, the state resources to be transferred to municipal administrations were increased by €125 million compared to the original €500 million already allocated. Also with regard to local taxes, it is important the provision that changes the way the TASI is paid, making them homogeneous with those of the IMU or through model F24 and current account bulletin. In order to avoid organizational difficulties in relying on the waste tax collection service, the municipal authorities are allowed to entrust the tax assessment and collection service to the persons entrusted with the municipal waste collection and disposal service. During 2013, there were numerous and sometimes convulsive changes in the area of local taxes, creating extreme difficulties for taxpayers. The provisions of Article 1, paragraph 4, which extends to all local taxes the procedure provided for in Article 1, paragraphs 722 to 727 of the 2014 Stability Act, in case of errors in IMU payments, are therefore positive. It is also important the measure that, in order to promote the investments of local authorities for the years 2014 and 2015, provides that they can take new loans and access other forms of financing available on the market, beyond the limits currently set by article 204, paragraph 1, of the Single text of local authorities, for an amount not exceeding the share of capital of loans and bonds previously contracted and issued. This rule favours the spending capacity of local authorities, promoting through this channel the resumption of public investment and the redevelopment of municipal territories. In order to address the liquidity deficiencies of the Municipalities, Article 8 gives the Municipalities of the Regions an ordinary statute and the Regions of Sicily and Sardinia, by the Ministry of the Interior, an amount, in advance of what is due for the year 2014 on the Municipal Solidarity Fund, for a measure, for each Municipality, equal to 20 percent of what is due for the year 2013 as a Fund. I would like to remind you that the Government has already implemented this provision, because, according to the initial text of the decree, it paid the sums on March 20, 2014. Moreover, some municipalities of the Province of Pesaro and Urbino are the beneficiaries of the provisions referred to in article 12, paragraph 1, which provides for an extraordinary contribution for the year 2014, equal to 2 million euros, for the financing of the participations of completion of the passage of some municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region. Finally, the issue of cleaning activities in schools and the issue of school building projects is addressed. In fact, pursuant to Article 19, the deadline for the continuation of contracts concluded by state educational and educational institutions for the purchase of cleaning services and other auxiliary services outstanding at 31 December 2013 was extended to 31 March 2014. In the examination of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 1-a has been inserted, which allocates 3.5 million euros for the safety of school buildings for each of the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Therefore, our opinion on the measure is positive, because it intervenes to give a reordering and clarity on taxation to our local administrators. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u36	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is another important step in the long scale of the recovery that inevitably passes, also and above all, from the territory and the local authorities. After the "Golden Times," a new season of responsibility has opened. There is no longer time for expectations, because the Renzi Government has given the country and Parliament a deep shock that conveys the hopes of millions of Italians and Italians. Reforms are the only way forward, but there is no reform that does not leave and does not return to the territory and to the citizens. For this reason, it was necessary to address the issue of local government finance with strength and commitment. I would like to remind you briefly that last month we witnessed the historic approval of the so-called Delrio reform, which establishes the overcoming of the Provinces as top-level bodies and the birth of the metropolitan cities, almost five luxuries from their prediction. Today is the time to focus on the financial and economic aspects of local authorities. The decree to which we are voting today has concrete measures in itself, especially written and thought not for the Municipalities, but with the Municipalities. The key word is certainly responsibility. This is the central point of this measure, which allows local taxes to be redistributed, the tax burden for the less well-off families to be reduced and clear objectives for the municipalities in a situation of financial weakness. All these measures are based on the concept of equity and are necessary not only for economic reasons, but above all for the confidence of citizens and families in the state and institutions to grow again. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to rely on local authorities, who must daily interface with the problems and specificities of their territories: that is why, for example, the municipalities are allowed, with a view to creating a system of exemptions, partial or total, to increase the TASI by 0.8 per thousand. Of particular importance (let me say this as a former administrator, as a former city council member, who well knew how important it was to prepare the budget estimates as soon as possible) is the postponement of the final date of approval of the forecast budget of the municipalities from 30 April to 31 July. Anyone among us, and we are most of us, who has maintained direct contact on the ground with the administrators is well aware of the difficulties and problems, given the dramatic economic crisis and the needs imposed by the Stability Pact and the state constraints which have accumulated in recent months for the preparation of the forecast budget. We Members of Parliament have often had to be criticized by those who accused us of turning everything upside down in a month's space, often frustrating the work done previously by offices and administrators. At the same time, however, by one month, it will be the turn of the local elections, which will involve most of our municipalities: granting an extension to the approval of the forecast budget is an act of responsibility that many administrators ask of us, in order to prevent such an important act falling too close to the elections, but can be left to those who will take over from the present meetings, from the beginning of June. This important rule, together with the 30% reduction in the proportion of provisions to the credit devaluation fund, the rules on school building and a milder system of sanctions on derogations from ancillary wages for municipalities and regions, meets the needs repeatedly stressed by representatives of local authorities, while keeping the concept of public finance responsibility firm and central. Finally, I would like to say a few words about improvements to the structural rebalancing plans of those municipalities in a situation of extreme suffering, which are unfortunately many. Although media attention, fueled by a campaign of oppositions, has focused on the so-called - moreover improperly - norm saves Rome, the measures in this regard are only a small part of the complexity and importance of the whole measure that we are examining. May I point out, as regards the definition of the measure as save Rome, that it is not a matter of saving one, two or three cities, but of helping their inhabitants and enhancing the functions that these cities carry out for the whole country. I believe that last Sunday we had a visible demonstration of how important our capital is to the whole world. Our country, in good and bad, has always been based on the founding concept of solidarity: a solidarity that is given and guaranteed, but that is also bound to an important commitment, by administrations temporarily helped by the State, to elaborate and pursue a virtuous and precise plan of return, with the possibility of maintaining an autonomous space of maneuver within a broader framework, which is aimed at repaying not so much the funds, but the trust granted. A confidence that this time is not given blank, but asks for responsibility in return. This is true solidarity, this is the responsibility of local authorities, this is what citizens need now: do not suffer from loneliness compared to the State, but return to feel it, to see it, to perceive it as a house of all, that operates with equity, as a help in need, but also as a duty at the same time of constant commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, while I am about to conclude my speech, I would like to address the issue of the widespread debt of most of our municipalities. Rome, in this case, is only the most obvious case, and politically exploited, of a situation that has been dragging on for years and that has seen several of the governments so far successive, of different colors and political orientations, intervene to cover the holes - or worse: the chasms - of many municipal budgets, according to the sensibilities of the moment or, sometimes, to electoral or political calculations. It is undeniable that in our country there is a debt problem of local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u38	You should finish, Senator Del Barba.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u39	DEL BARBA (PD). Sure, I'm gonna go finish. This measure is an act of trust to all the Italian municipalities, especially those who - as I have already said - have problems of failure or pre-financing: it is a pact that the State subscribes, that all the citizens, all of us subscribe. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u40	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u41	Madam President, this measure, yet another with omnibus type, called Roma-b, presents all its redundant voidness; it is the usual system of title on box with internal observation: empty. Solidarity funds, funds for urgent needs, funds for repartitioning and, above all, the fund for the continuation of contracts of cleaning workers, which - I have to say - will recover the 20 million euros from the fund necessary for school resources, essential for the improvement of the training offer, the teaching of support and the life of the school itself. In this continuous extension, making the work increasingly precarious, whether it is the work of didactic continuity, or that it is the strengthening of the part of building maintenance, the work and attention to the people involved are inexplicably distant, ridiculous, in this continuous emergency management without future perspective, without logical program. A course for contractors' workers is assumed for a commitment on the recognition of structural damage that the school can present, without understanding how the difference between the building's stability crack and the system crack caused by the seismic territory can be known. Yes, because the attention to school building is this: course for small maintenance and repair of damaged masonry cracks. How is it possible that the school, the workers in the school, the pupils, the parents, the citizens can still allow such total and inappropriate indifference in the use of funds, therefore waste of money, and incomplete impossibility to understand what and how to avoid extending with high-sounding announcements, without adapting functional work with appropriate projects? We of the 5 Star Movement, together with the citizens, the school precarious, the pupils and the parents, ask for dignity and let's say that's enough. Enough of unnecessary extensions for contractual changes with attached courses for small school building maintenance. Enough for solidarity funds not established in the law of stability, so non-existent and in vain. It is enough to devalue the state's debts towards the municipalities, so as to turn them into credits and remove any smaller resources from the municipalities. And, again, enough with credit cards, to avoid the real financial collapse of a city, such as that of Rome, that cannot design functional services and to the size of the citizen: metropolis as beautiful as it is devastated by the continuous and unacceptable carelessness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u42	We greet the students of the High School of State "Alessandro Volta" in Ancona, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, Mr Moscardelli has already spoken on issues relating in particular to Roma Capitale. I would like to take up the issues relating to local property taxation, also trying to remove from the debate some incorrect things that have been said and written over the past few weeks. TASI, that is, a tax on indivisible services based on real estate, is not a tax invented in Italy, but exists in many other European countries. So, from this point of view, we're on the right track. The system of the single municipal tax, structured on IMU, TASI and TARI, is right: it is the right way to approach as closely as possible the taxation to citizens. However, I would like to take the opportunity of the debate on the decree under consideration in order to force a question to the Government: on the part of the municipalities, on the part of those who work at the front (let me pass the term a little'strong) there is a sign of deep discomfort. There is the discomfort of those who see the regulations changed every day: it is not possible that in every decree there is a change, modest or significant, on the issues of local taxation. This raises a serious problem, and Mr Broglia has already pointed this out in her speech. The rapporteur has also rightly stressed this aspect and the need to have stability of rules to give certainty in the preparation of forecast budgets. From this point of view we have noticed, for example, the further extension to 31 July 2014 of the date for the approval of the forecast budgets: we ask the Government to go no further, which means that the municipalities are put in the condition of being able to prepare forecast budgets having certainty of the resources transferred from the State. There is another aspect that I believe is right to stress in terms of stability and certainty of the rules, and it concerns the citizens, the queues that we have all seen on the so-called mini-IMU and the difficulty of explaining this continuous goings-on on the interpretation of the rules, last, for companies, those on the TARI and waste disposed of independently. This is an issue that the government must put at the centre. This is what architecture is now, we have to give continuity and certainty. From this point of view, I believe that there is another issue that is touched upon by the decree, that is, the theme of the Municipalities in so-called pre-dissest. I have already said this on other occasions, and I repeat it again: I believe that there is a will of the Government, which I hope in the reply can be confirmed by the Undersecretary Legnini, on the need for a revision of the existing legislation on discesses and pre-dissidents. Address the issue as a whole, avoiding from this point of view the existence of A-series municipalities and B-series municipalities: Commons more fortunate or less lucky depending on the date on which they had to declare the failure, or because they were still in the condition to remain in this sort of limbo of the pre-dissest. All the legislation must be addressed again: it must be tackled with courage, of course with the aim of having municipalities healed, but avoiding, as is the case today in the municipalities in distress, to dump many if not all the problems on citizens and businesses that have to bear the maximum taxation expected. Finally, I welcome Article 6 with regard to the accounting of the IMU, which allows to "clean" the budgets and to avoid inflating the part related to current expenditure by those so-called incapienti municipalities (remember that there are 300 in 2013), which have a negative municipal solidarity fund: in other words, they are the municipalities that give to the State. Well, until the introduction of this rule, this amount ended up in current expenditure, inflating a figure which is of very significant importance in the assessment of the management of the municipalities, especially by the Court of Auditors. I would like to point out another aspect on the issue of the Provinces that we have discussed for a long time during the approval of the Del Rio decree with which we started a transformation phase. In the transformation phase, however, the Provinces continue to have a very serious real problem of reckless cutting - I use this adjective forcefully - of transfers. In all probability, in 2014, about half of the Italian Provinces will go into disarray, because the transfers have been cut to an extent absolutely incompatible with the structure of the costs of the institutions. I believe that the Government can commit itself to doing more on this subject by addressing this issue, together with the regulatory changes. I should like to end by expressing my appreciation for the work carried out, in particular, if I may, by the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, who has strongly stressed the improvements made in this measure and the framework, which not only concerns Rome but also the entire system of local self-government, which - I repeat strongly to the Government - needs certain rules and greater stability, otherwise the trust relationship between citizens and institutions risks jumping. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u45	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u46	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained in the context of the preliminary question, the decree before us contains a number of measures concerning local authorities, but it is above all the vehicle for introducing rules in favour of Roma Capitale. It contains, it is true, some common measures, such as the exclusion of the payment of TASI for agricultural land, the necessary extensions and the exclusion of sanctions for the citizens of L'Aquila. However, these few good measures cannot justify the many absolutely impossible, starting with the increase of the TASI and the modification of the TARI, which bring the total bill on the house to be borne by the Italian citizen to over 30 billion euros of taxes. A real asset taxation created and modeled by the three unelected governments: Monti, Letta and Renzi. But the most serious thing is that the provisions of the so-called decree saves Rome-b, which last December had been blocked by President Napolitano in its recurrence, are re-presented. It is precisely these rules in favour of the administration of Mayor Marino that the Government continues to force its hand on. These are heavy tampering with the accounting law and, above all, violation of the constraints provided for in Article 81 of the Constitution, through the rules provided for in Article 16 of the Decree. To the objections raised by the Chamber on the quantification of the debt mass of the Municipality of Rome, the General Accounting Office of the State responded, with a note following the presentation of the decree-law and its technical report, in a very evasive manner. Indeed, the structure of the Ministry of Economy does not clarify the timing for the final liquidation of the passive mass in the hands of the Special Commissioner for Rome Capital, or the amount of the debits. The definition by Rome Capital's appropriate management criteria cannot be an acceptable response, because the constraints imposed by Article 81 of the Constitution provide for a certain quantification of the burdens: they do not provide for the postponement to date to be allocated. The new or higher charges must be quantified and the amount of the charges depends on the amount of the passive mass, one cannot escape this rule. It is unacceptable for Rome Capital to be able to avail itself of favourable rules, which even regions with special status do not have. It is not acceptable for all Italian citizens to assume responsibility for the careless management of the city of Rome, without even knowing what the exact amount of the charges that this decree covers all taxpayers. Mayor Marino cannot present himself as Alice in Wonderland and download everything on previous administrations, from the 1960s to today. He cannot request for the third time a decree to save the city of Rome without being able, after almost ten months of government of the Capital and after having approved a budget for the broken headphone, to quantify the accounts, which are the credits and especially the debts. Rome benefits from cash transfers and the rest we put in the backpack of the public debt to be borne by the Italians. How nice it would be if every agency could do this: magically remove all debts and keep the chest full of money! The decree, to approve which in the Senate we run against time, against budgetary constraints and against common sense, expires on May 5 (a date already famous enough for those who come from high school!). The hope for the Romans is to get rid as soon as possible of an irreconclusive management, which forces Parliament to operate in a regime of continuous emergency, forcing the General Accounting of the State - the one that is always prudent in the judgments, the one that seeks fleas in the amendments of parliamentary initiative - to approve what cannot be approved: the suspended accounts of Rome Capital. I just want to remind you that this is one of the first acts of the Renzi Government, which in the House had tried, fortunately without success, to include in addition to a Rome save even a Florence save. If this is the way the Renzi Executive operates, starting from this decree passing from the Document of economy and finance to arrive to the decree bearing the bonus IRPEF, that we will examine in the next few days, we must all stand with our eyes on the counter in real time of the public debt visible on the Internet: I fear that unfortunately it will turn at a speed that no one had ever predicted! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u47	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u48	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, of all the measures that the previous Government had taken, probably the most inauspicious, in the light of the incredible provisions contained therein, is this: the decree saves Rome, even if disguised under another name. It is clear that a measure that saves a city, and unfortunately condemns many others (too many), represents a text worthy of an anti-meritocrat country, where derogations and sanatories constitute, unfortunately and with good peace of the meaning of the word "virtuoso" the rule. In Italy, thanks to the last two central-left governments, we have, or rather, also managed to do worse, emanating not for one, not for two, but for three times the same shameful measure, even after the withdrawal wanted by the President of the Republic. Indeed, this measure is characterized by other provisions, some of which are very important, in the field of local finance. Article 1, for example, finalises the possibility for local authorities to increase the TASI rate by 0.8 per thousand to finance deductions, at the discretion of the municipalities themselves. It is clear that this rule does not solve at all the numerous and long-standing issues posed by the new municipal tax TASI, which as well as its predecessor IMU, is born under a bad star. This is not enough, perhaps the most regrettable aspect is the fact that the Government has painted this new increase to the detriment of citizens such as the solution, the response to the regulatory and financial chaos created by this same Executive. Thus this tax was and remains a tax collected in fact by the State with a fake attribution to the municipalities, which will have to suffer the heavy effects, such as the cutting of transfers, moving within the normative stakes established by the same state law that severely limits its scope. In practice, mayors will still have to settle nodes and limits created by the central government (we remember that, in the light of the future decrees, in the towns under the thousand inhabitants will not even be paid for their precious work). The measure before us today, however, will go into history also for the provisions in favour of the municipalities in failure, or perhaps it would be better to say for the City in failure. We are talking about article 3, that is, the norm for Naples, save Naples. The Municipality of Naples, under a deficit procedure, submitted a return plan to the Court of Auditors: a procedure, it should be remembered, written specifically to allow this administration to recover fresh resources to save it from the inexorable default. Too bad, however, that the Court of Auditors has clearly rejected the procedure of the Campanian body. With the now (sadly, I dare say) famous resolution n. 12 of 20 January 2014, the same judiciary has detected a financial situation of failure. The Naples budget for the Court - I quote - continued to present a significant mass of active residues, on which, however, the accounting magistrates note the potential non-absistence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Translated for ordinary mortals, this means that the credits relating to taxes, transfers or fines that the City declares to have on the budget will never be collected. The accounting courts have found that one of the main sources of the institution's accumulated failure is the obvious inability - and I stress that term - of the municipal administration itself to collect local taxes. It is no coincidence, moreover, that in the municipality of Campania there is a rate of evasion in the order of 50%. So, we wonder why we have to act on the inability of this administration: let us do it, as much as some good soul will always think about it, but using other people's resources! To be clearer and more effective, we can say that IMU and TARSU are not paid by more than half of the Neapolitans, who are obviously careful not to pay road fines. The Court of Auditors itself informs us that more than 30% of the infringements are not paid: make your points! It is clear to each of us that, in the face of these judgments, the accounting judiciary itself should have declared the disaster, dissolved the city council and started the commission. No, you don't! With the article inserted in this measure will allow the Neapolitan body to freeze the procedure, allowing the same to present a new plan of rebalancing, blocking, moreover, every executive procedure (obviously, given the previous experiences, without introiting anything and continuing in the situation that this Municipality has always had). Then there is the article, on which so much has been discussed, about Rome Capital. It is Article 16 with which, faced with a previous and millionaire debt, the Capitoline entity continues to be allowed to include the city deficit in a different accounting system, in a kind of bad company. A shame all Italian that continues to allow an institution to be continuously refinanced against others who instead manage their budgets in a healthy and correct way. This is not enough, it also allows the earthquake-stricken municipalities of the province of L'Aquila to exclude the same from the application of the sanctions provided for the non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact for the financial year 2013. There's nothing to say about that. In fact, this passage is correct. So, nothing against the Common Eagle Earthquakes. However, it would be appropriate that the government, instead of approving agendas that remain dead letter, began seriously to consider the possibility of allowing such exclusion also to some municipalities of the North, such as those Veneto hit between December 2013 and January 2014 by a flood and snowfalls that have brought to their knees half the region. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to remind you that there are still virtuous Municipalities who, with dignity, provide services to the citizens without taking away their bread from their mouths, and we shall defend them, but we can no longer accept that they are Commons in Mistakes, common wastemen who live on other people's labours! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u49	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we have dealt with this issue. The measure we have before us is slightly different from the others that have been examined, where at the center there has always been the financial condition and a return program that concerns, in particular, Rome, the capital city of Italy. The measure intervenes in a structured way, but certainly not in depth (although it would be necessary) in the field of local finance. It also intervenes to resolve some urgent issues that we have already addressed in this House during the discussion of the previous measure, which has the same object and which has been withdrawn by the Government for the second time, in order to allow our school structures, and therefore the Italian students, to continue to carry out the lessons. Like all the emergency instruments adopted at this stage, this also does not motivate us in a particular way, it does not create particular enthusiasm. It is a kind of medicine that must be taken by closing its nose, because the bitter is almost unbearable. But the reason for this bitterness is not in the provision. However, I would like to say that, as we have done for the previous similar measure, we will vote for it and that in the course of the debate on the amendments we will try to minimise all kinds of pressure, because the sooner this medicine is taken, bitter as it is and shutting our noses, the better. We do not do this because we like it and not even to give the government a discount, against which we express our most convinced opposition. We do this only because we are a political formation of the left, the real one, the one that poses the problems of the country. And it is precisely in the problems of the country, the real ones, the reason why we must make this kind of provision, which is not the first and will not be the last. If we took the data and historical series of the last thirty years (1984-2014) and photographed 1984 not only because there was the death of Enrico Berlinguer and therefore the start of the process of reducing that political formation and those parties so much attacked, that they were solid pillars of a democratic society also able to face the problems of the country's economy, it would appear that in 1984 the debt-to-GDP ratio was 74.4%; now it is 132 percent: 60 more points, two of media per year. The unemployment rate was 7.9%; now it is at 13.4: it has doubled. Over 2,100 billion euro debts, much less in 1994, but real GDP today is at -1,9, while then it was at +3,23 (5 points of difference): today would be worth about 75 billion euros on average. We would have solved problems if we had this, if we had that society organized and punctual that activated the confrontation between the political parties; not a society that went to look for the "so much worse, so much better," not that of the quainquism, that speaks badly of politics and wants to be in politics; not that of the parties made and based on the communication ability of their leader, but a policy that governed the country, through study and commitment, finding solutions, identifying paths, activating relationships. Not the commercials that also the Government and the President of the Council continue to have, not to say all the others, those that Italian citizens vote, unfortunately, forgetting that there is also something else in this country: there are those who work, there are not those who speak! And we have to face the problems and issues related to the Municipalities: like Rome there is Milan, like Milan there is Naples; there are those who are worse, there are those who are better. The Mezzogiorno is desperate. At one time, the Mezzogiorno of Italy was a question on which development policies were to be created and to overcome differences: not now. We have a decree per hour (let's say a day, but we are working to have one per hour); we have a decree to withdraw when we want, because we can't even approve it, because it has content we regret. Governments like this, which last weeks or months, do not change policies: the aggression towards employment, work, the stability of the business-worker relationship, the combination of productive investments with the ability to design, project and even realization, which is typical of our world of work, of our workers and also of our entrepreneurs. We work on something else. After that, we go to emergencies. Let's think about the emergency (this is an emergency). We have water in our throats: we do not want to drown and we do not want to see the citizens more desperate than they already are. We're not happy they're sick. We'd like them to be okay. We don't stand there fomenting, as some press does: the pitchforks here and the pitchforks there. We are not like that, because we have the responsibility for the civil service, for the ability to exercise the function of government. But we cannot be the only - and not even the most desperate - defending the things that must be defended. I turn to the Democratic Party, with which we always make elections and which then goes to rule always with the right: it is not acceptable! When we make elections, we want to create change, we do not want the perpetuation of wrong policies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. URAS (Misto-SEL). I am concluding, with this call and with this appeal, that it is a criticism, but it is a positive criticism to whom we intend to be a fellow traveler. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u51	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u54	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I have asked to speak because a fact has happened in Rome in recent days that I consider very serious, a sign of a disturbing attack on freedom of thought, on freedom of teaching, on the freedom of schools in promoting the construction of a welcoming and inclusive educational environment for everyone and everyone. Two fundamentalist associations, Giuristi per la Vita and Pro Vita Onlus, presented an exhibit in proxy, denouncing for the dissemination of obscene material some teachers of the high school "Giulio Cesare". Their fault is to have included, in a list of twenty-one books to read and comment with their students, "Si come sei come sei, il delicate novel by Melania Mazzucco, one of the best writers of his generation, who tells the story of a family from the point of view of Eva, a teenage daughter of a gay cup; a story that speaks of discrimination, psychological violence among peers, the difficulty of overcoming stereotypes at that age. That book contains, for ten lines on two hundred pages, a sex scene, not free, but inserted in a beautiful and delicate harvest, as in Moravia's novels, as in "The story" by Elsa Morante, as in Pasolini's work, as in the poems of Sappho and Catullo, all authors who have full legitimacy in our schools and whose literary description of sex represents an artistic and ethical counterpoint to the bombardment of sexual vulgarity to which every teenager is subjected every day by the media. As a counterpoint that takes account of the fundamentalist front at work in our country against the social dignity of homosexual people and their families, yesterday morning were exposed, in front of the high school "Giulio Caesar" by young fascists of Forza Nuova, two sleazy homophobic banners ennouncing the wild males, to the face of the principles of the Istanbul Convention, which this House has also voted as an instrument to counter that violently machistic culture of which our country is still imbued. As per the script, the controversy against UNAR, the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office, has been revived, which the Government has entrusted, according to the European commitments it had undertaken, the activation of the strategy for the rights and social inclusion of LGBT people. Against what happened to Julius Caesar the City Council of Rome and the president of the Lazio Region Nicola Zingaretti intervened: not a word came from the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Together with 32 other Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party, we presented more than a month ago an urgent question to know the intentions of the MIUR in the face of a very strong attack on the interventions against homophobia in Italian schools and we have not heard yet. Full silence. But silence, in a democratic community, is never such: it is always filled with loud and violent voices, as in this case. I hope that this silence will soon be filled with institutional intervention and words that speak, not of violence and oppression, but of social inclusion and acceptance in our schools. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u57	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, we feel the need to denounce an attack, which this time comes from Europe, against renewables. Rifkin had the opportunity to say that our gold is the sun, that our oil is the sun. It seems that our Minister, and I have already spoken about this in this House, is of different opinion and, like a dinosaur, she claims that our gold is still fossils. However, we realize that the Minister feels that she has strong backs, because of this position that the EU takes towards industries, which may no longer contribute to renewables. Secondly, the State aid limits that can be applied to private industries are widening and widening. All this is done through the publication of the Commission's guidelines on competition policies. In this report it is decided, precisely, to extend to other parties the possibility of receiving State aid which, in general, in Europe is prohibited, extending them to large energy industries, which in this way may have the partial or even total exemption of the payment of the part of electricity bills due to support for renewable energy. This measure may cover a large part of the industrial sectors. In essence, all companies that consume electricity, with costs exceeding 10% of their turnover, or that have international competition, will be able to exempt themselves from the payment of that share which was the incentives for renewables. Moreover, it will also be possible to finance the thermal power plants, as already required in Italy from several parts and was already foreseen in the DEF last year, with public funds for the so-called reserve capacities, installed to ensure a reliable backup that compensates for the intermittency of renewable sources (that is the famous reserve of energy that the thermal power plants can still do and renewables can not). Instead of investing in renewables and creating a reserve fund, we still invest in fossils. We have demonstrated that there was a change in strength and power since last May, when the Climate Change Commission published its targets by 2030. All the fossil lobbies have gathered and compacted into a group that - look at the case - is called "Magritte": absolutely surreal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u60	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, this morning in Rimini there was a congress of the SAP, an autonomous police union, attended by Minister Alfano, the Head of Police and many other political representatives. It was a new occasion, on which we expected a statement from the Minister on the issue of the 512 pupils police officers not yet employed. The days are passing, and the deadlines within which these agents can still be used will soon expire: we ask the Government once again for attention on the subject and a clear answer. We do not wish, Madam President, that at this electoral time it would be more convenient for Mr Alfano and for those like him, to delude 50,000 new participants in a contest rather than give the right response to 500 winners.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-238.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.07 a.m.
