ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. First of all, there will be questions 2-00173, 2-00175 and 2-00209 and questions 3-01004, 3-01017 and 3-01401, on initiatives to ensure the peaceful conduct of the events "Sentinels standing". I call Senator Bianconi. 173, 175 and 209.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u4	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the questions which we have tabled relate precisely to standing sentinels, demonstrations of peaceful people, often families, who stand up in the cities in this way against legislation which they consider inappropriate in terms of homophobia and equalisation of the gay family, or composed of homosexual persons, compared to the traditional family. These events, which took place in 90 Italian cities, have always been announced to the authorities responsible for public order. Unfortunately, these events have been affected by the extremely aggressive presence of groups and associations of homosexuals who have molested, have launched smokegies, as happened for example in Bergamo, have heavily insulted the demonstrators and often the Forces of the Order have not contained this type of aggression. Now, you understand very well that if in Italy we can not even maintain the possibility of making protests in silence and in an extremely composed way of people we really have a problem of holding our democracy. To make everything much more disconcerting is the attitude of the mayor of Siena who, even, wants to revise the municipal regulations in order to avoid that these standing sentries can watch in Piazza del Campo. Mr. Undersecretary, we basically ask for two things. The first is as an initiative the Minister intends to put in place to protect freedom of expression by groups of people who carry out their manifestation, freely and in a correct and moderate manner, and express their disagreement with a regulation that is being discussed in these classrooms. The second is if it does not consider it appropriate to produce or issue a circular addressed to all quaestors and prefects to give a course of action in relation to this initiative. There will be others and it would be good if, just as in some cities the Forces of Order accompanied and protected these demonstrations, they could also be guaranteed in other cities where this, in fact, did not happen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with questions 3-01004, 3-0117 and 3-01401.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond in conjunction with the acts of inspection union presented by Senators Bianconi, Malan and Giovanardi, as they deal with the same subject, namely the disturbance of public order by antagonistic groups and social centres during some demonstrations of the movement "Sentinels standing" held, in part, in May and June 2014 and, in part, on the following 5 October. Indeed, in the course of some public initiatives of the "Sentinelle" of the past months of May and June, concurrent counter-manifestations characterized by disputes and disturbing acts have been organized - most of the time without notice - which have not resulted in more serious tensions also thanks to the public order services prepared for the occasion. In general, the police forces have limited themselves to preventing contact between the Sentinels and their protesters, who, using the conditions, have been videotaped, identified and reported to the judicial authority for crimes of various types identified, from time to time, in the absence of public notice of meeting, in the non-compliance with the order of the authority, in violence, resistance or outrage to the public official, in the refusal of indications on their personal identity, in the disturbance of the occupations or rest of the persons and in similar crimes. In relation to the events in question, Senator Giovanardi complained about the uncooperative behaviour of certain municipal administrations when granting the squares to the Sentinels. I have to say that, on this side, the information acquired has not highlighted any particular problems. Sometimes, the mayors granted the Sentinels spaces other than those required, but it turns out that this happened because the required squares had already been booked for other initiatives or had been considered by the quaestor not easily manageable from the point of view of public order. On the other hand, and I am referring specifically to Siena, the garrison of the Sentinels held on 30 May in Siena was the occasion for the municipal administration to initiate a reflection on the use of Piazza del Campo. The relative regulation - dating back to 1987 - is already restrictive; it is now being discussed whether to allocate the square - as happens in other cities for places of particular historical significance to the community - only to institutional demonstrations, excluding political, trade union or cultural initiatives from anyone promoted. Among other things, the principals of the "Sentinelle" were held simultaneously with other initiatives authorized by the Municipalities, but, as far as it is known, the concurrent initiatives took place without reciprocal interference and, on the other hand, in a circumstance - Parma - it was the "Sentinelle" who requested to carry out their own event in conjunction with another already authorized initiative. It is ensured, however, that on the specific point the attention of the prefects is and remains high and the Ministry of the Interior will continue to exercise a vigilant monitoring and impulse activity. As Senators Giovanardi and Malan recalled, the Sentinels also promoted a large series of principals on October 5th. A total of 50 have been held throughout Italy, to which the antagonistic realities - social centres and other associations - have opposed 26 concomitant counter-manifestations. In the days prior to these appointments, the Department of Public Security had issued two awareness circulars containing precise guidelines to the provincial authorities of public security for the conduct, in advance, of targeted information activities and the preparation of appropriate measures to ensure the smooth conduct of the events. In addition, for the implementation of the law enforcement and public security services planned by the police, rates of reinforcement of the parties had been allocated, where the provincial public security authorities so requested. Even by virtue of these measures, only about ten garrisons have been critical. I would like to focus on the two principals in which the criticalities have resulted in crimes against the person. In Bologna about 250 members of the local antagonistic realities went in procession towards Piazza Galvani, where about forty activists of the Sentinels had gathered, including seven adherents of the new Force movement. At the end of the initiative, while the participants were flowing towards a side street, the antagonists, in an attempt to come into contact with the adherents of the New Force, also launched objects on the police cord deployed between the opposing groups. Under the circumstances, a police operator was struck at the face with a belt launched by an exponent of the social centers. Shortly thereafter, a group of antagonists, having noticed three new Force activists board a taxi, approached the vehicle, kicking and punching. The investigation activities carried out by the police have allowed to identify and denounce to the judicial authority eleven persons, between representatives of the social centers and a militant of new Force, as authors of the acts of violence. For the Rovereto demonstration the presence of police and police patrols had been arranged, as happened in the past for similar demonstrations held in the same city without disturbance for public order. During the event, about ten anarchists, who were added to the chunk, carried out a throw of eggs against those present, hit also a priest forced to help at the local hospital, due to contusions judged to be healable in two days. The anarchist group, moreover, took possession of a bag containing leaflets to be distributed during the event, after hitting the owner's nose, causing injuries judged to be healable in fifteen days. The police forces immediately intervened on the spot, after carrying out investigations that allowed the identification of the perpetrators of the attack (all belonging to the local anarchist-insurrectionalist movement) sent the relevant information to the judicial authority. By uniting the facts of Bologna and Rovereto and those of the other places where on October 5th there were disturbances, I can say that the police forces in public order service, if necessary the intervention, have managed to contain the effects of initiatives even criminally important put in place by the protesters. I suggest for completeness that, after 5 October, the "Sentinelle" held four other events in Pordenone, Treviso, Cremona and Bergamo, during which there were no particular criticalities from the point of view of public order. On this occasion I represent, more generally, that the maintenance of public order and public security during public demonstrations is one of the most delicate commitments for the police forces, which operate through tested operational modules, consisting of the preventive activation of appropriate information channels and the preparation, on site, of accurate public order services commensurate with the level of risk expected, subject - if necessary and where possible - successive additions of the device that become necessary to the event in progress. The illegal events carried out during the events in question, carefully monitored by specialised police officers, shall be subjected, at the end of their investigations, to the assessments of the judicial authority. I assure you that to this consolidated modus operandi the Police Forces will also land in the future, in order to guarantee the serene and regular conduct of every peaceful initiative, that it is an expression of the freedom of manifestation of thought constitutionally guaranteed, including, of course, those of the "Sentinels standing".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u8	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for responding to the acts of inspection union that I have presented. I do not doubt that the necessary instructions have been given - which would also be superfluous - in order to guarantee, in general, freedom of expression to citizens who do so in compliance with law and order. I am aware of the interventions that, on more than one occasion, have been made by the law enforcement agencies and the public security authorities to guarantee this right, but it must be noted that, in more than one case, this right has in fact been prevented, really damaging, as a result, the freedom of expression of citizens. In my first question, I pointed out that, after what happened on May 31, 2014 in Lecce, where the standing Sentinels were made the subject of a series of verbal and physical aggressions, these same aggressions were then claimed via the Internet (on Facebook and on various sites) by various organizations that evidently tolerate badly those who have ideas other than theirs, while professing themselves for openness, respect and tolerance. I do not, however, understand that these organisations have been prosecuted. The same claim on the Internet is a very serious matter. If, in fact, in other cases, those responsible may be the individuals who go to the place and maybe then let themselves be taken by the hand - even if it is a crime to let themselves be taken by the criminal way - the fact of claiming even certain actions on the Internet and theorizing that that is the way to face the future manifestations is really disturbing. I therefore hope that there will be an activity, both prevention and repression, of these incidents. I conclude by remarking that paradoxically those who are victims of these aggressions are nevertheless expressing an opinion, which is evidently opposed to that of their aggressors, but totally in line with what the Italian Constitution lays down, while the others would like profound innovations. Until proven otherwise, on the other hand, those on the side of the Constitution should, if anything, have more reason than those against, considering that peacefully it is legitimate to change the Constitution as well. I would also like to point out that in the guidelines for information that is respectful of LGBT people, the Department of Equal Opportunities has written about the principle of contradictory information in even private information - not only for public information bodies - that when it comes to so-called LGBT rights, this equality must not be respected because it is a choice of value and that is that those who think it contrary to what the Constitution says must be privileged. This document, dated 11 December 2013, is signed by a representative of the Department of Equal Opportunities, with the stamp of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am therefore concerned, because there is a paradoxical attitude of particular protection towards those who are against the Constitution. And since the subject today is specifically public order, I hope that from the point of view of public order we have absolutely determined to guarantee the freedom to manifest for all, for those who want to change the laws from the point of view of LGBT associations, but of course also for others, because it is very serious that even rarely there are people who cannot express their opinion in the most peaceful way imaginable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u11	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his extensive examination. I am very pleased that he has retraced the most significant stages of this truly very regrettable situation. I fully agree with what Mr Malan has just said and I must say that I am particularly pleased that you have identified and denounced the authors of the facts we are talking about, because this already gives the sense that the State has, however, very clear what needs to be done in these cases and that it does not leave room for these disturbers. I am also pleased with the issue of the circular, since the existence of a behaviour that must be unique throughout the national territory gives further guarantee of the possibility of manifesting freely within the rules provided for by Italian law and with extreme tranquility. I remember in fact that in these garrisons there are families and there are also children and it would really be a bad service, even from the educational point of view, the repetition of certain situations. Finally, let me say that I am very satisfied with the result that
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u12	Following is the question 2-00180 on the collapse of a viaduct in the province of Agrigento. I call Senator Ruvolo to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank President Grasso and the chairman of my Group, Senator Ferrara, for accepting the various requests made by me to respond to my questioning on 14 July 2014. It's been exactly five months since July 14th. What happened? The 7 July 2014 collapsed a span of a viaduct of the 626 state road and therefore wanted to know what was the understanding of the Government in relation to the happened, if it was intended to give an immediate, rapid and punctual response to the needs of a very vast territory that had been so affected in terms of both road, and, above all, economic. The firm marineries and the damage reported by a series of activities, beginning with the agricultural sector that includes an extensive serriculture, in fact needed an adequate response. Mr Undersecretary, meanwhile, the esteem, appreciation and confidence in you are those of all time, but I had no idea that you could answer me on matters that are not within your competence. I understand that you represent the Government, but I would have liked much more to deal with the problems of agriculture: it will be for the next time. What's happened in the last five years? It's very simple. In the area that goes from Trapani to the province of Ragusa in this period of time four bridges collapsed: on May 10, 2009 the viaduct Jeremiah collapsed on the state road 626; on May 5, 2011 there was the collapse of the viaduct that connects Caltagirone to Gela (so, we move in the Province of Catania) again on the state road 626; on February 2, 2013 - I experienced it personally, alas - the bridge on the river Verdura collapsed on the state road 115. Last, on July 7, the span of the viaduct Petrulla collapsed, again on the highway 626. Well, it makes me think a lot about the fact that all these collapses took place on that stretch of the 626 state road. I do not know whether an action has been taken by the competent Ministry or whether, in any case, the ANAS has been aware of what has happened in that section. Certainly they are works made around the eighties, and, by chance, the collapses happen with a constancy now worrying. Luck has desired - or perhaps the eternal Father has given us a gift; I will speak more fully of it than of a specific circumstance I know - that there have not been any deaths. Do we only want to intervene when there are victims? I don't think it's serious at all, especially not from the government, but from ANAS. With regard to the bridge over the river Verdura, which is located along the highway 115, that collapse caused the split in two of Sicily: the western part from the eastern one. It was 2 February 2013, the time of the harvest of oranges, those PDO - you, Undersecretary, know very well that reality for having also supported it, and for this I thank you publicly once again - so that collapse has caused an extreme discomfort to the producers. Fortunately, it happened in broad daylight. Thanks to his ability to intuition, an ANAS worker had sensed that the bridge could collapse in a few moments. He has made every effort to block transit on one side and on the other and, after ten minutes, on live television (because local broadcasters had already intervened in the meantime) the bridge has collapsed. Fortunately, there were no deaths. How was this bridge built? We are talking about a bridge from the end of the nineteenth century, which in the seventies had been flanked by a span with the new technologies of the time. The part of the bridge built in the last period of the late nineteenth century collapsed. I ask you, Mr Undersecretary, but has no control ever taken place on that bridge and on all the others who have fallen as cardboard? They've collapsed on themselves. Never any control from ANAS? I ask the government and the politics because the judiciary is making its way, but we cannot always be surrogated in the activities by what the judiciary will then determine. I believe that in that case it was necessary not to promote but to remove. For the next 45 days during which it was not known what the road on which the traffic could be diverted, we ended up on a regia trazzera with a mad road. It has been 45 days - believe me - of absolute hell. Nothing could be understood anymore: if a train arrived, it blocked for hours and hours the little traffic that could flow. On March 12, 2013 with a note of mine I asked for the removal of the summits ANAS Sicily for manifest inability and inadequacy. On 22 March, after ten days, an order was issued for a provisional opening with alternate one-way. Did you have to shout to do this? Did you have to question how things were? There has been an opening of temporary transit. Mr. Undersecretary, I said it and I repeat it: there was no escape route, only a regia trazzera, an alternative route of about 50 kilometers for over two and a half hours of transit if the catch did not happen, which always happened. From this point of view too, we have witnessed the total absence of the leadership of the ANAS summit. I'm not mad at the government, but the government is responsible for the acts that ANAS establishes. It's been two years, and now we're getting to the third winter. Now I'll tell you what the fear is that we live in that territory. There have been two years of silence in spite of my solicitations. I met with the President of ANAS and the national summits: they assured me that they would speak immediately. It is true that there is the passage, but our concern is that under the bridge there is a river that has a flow when there are droughty vintages like this - from all parts of Italy it rains except, unfortunately, from us - of more than 200 million cubic meters of water going to sea. The real concern of our populations concerns an area where, moreover, there are two centres of hydropower production in ENEL where the level rises somewhat at will and a little out of necessity if there are substantial rains. If there is a full risk of another damage once again in this precarious condition, hoping that no victims will occur. That's what we are and I'm worried about. These are my demands and I look forward with great interest to the Government's response. There is an impossibility of interlocating also for public administrations - I am not talking about parliamentarians - like the municipalities and mayors of the various areas, who have tried in every way to have a conversation with the ANAS summits. The answer has always been a shameful silence. Mr. Undersecretary, I invite you, on behalf of the Government, to take all the necessary steps. Do not let this situation flow like water. Why have the checks not yet been carried out? Why the fall of bridges? Why are no checks carried out, the results of which could be illustrated at appropriate locations such as this one? The truth is that everything remains the same, except for some patching on one side and on the other. This is the case of the Petrulla area, on the 626 highway, where there has been a deviation for six months now and to arrive from one point to the other you must always have the patience to travel at 20-25 kilometers per hour. The occurrence of a tragedy must then result in a great opportunity. It almost creates an opportunity. Mr. Undersecretary, from Ragusa to Gela until you get to Castelvetrano (zone you know very well) there is a shortage of roads also state (the highway 115 resumes part of the former direction trazzera). After many solicitations, the ANAS, on the basis of commissioned studies, produced a feasibility study cost more than millions of euros lying in the drawers of some office, of some executive who perhaps, in the meantime, has been promoted. But everything is still. While we are witnessing the collapse of bridges, viaducts and spans, the government is at least committed to financing design. Nobody is asking for the motorway to be built; we understand the difficulties of the moment. In the above-mentioned feasibility study for the implementation of the final project, the sum of EUR 36 million was estimated. In this project there are three hypotheses: the motorway, the dual carriageway and maintenance. Today's issue is an opportunity to receive answers on this subject, albeit not immediately. However, I wanted to highlight the financial aspect because it concerns the pockets of the Italians. I would also like to point out that the work on the state road 640 linking Agrigento to Caltanissetta is being carried out. Personally, I have made complaints about this by producing documents for ANAS to carry out checks. In fact, it would appear from the documents I have produced that some of the bridges already almost completed have deficits that I, not being expert in the field, are unable to assess. That's why I produced documents, videos and photographic material about what I'm talking about. I'm going to conclude. I put a lot of flesh to the fire, but this is the only opportunity to express a thought and to give dignity to a territory. Your presence, Mr Undersecretary, comforts me because I am sure you will do everything possible to resolve these critical situations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the questions put by the interrogators, whom I thank, concerning the collapses of the Petrulla viaduct and the bridge over the river Verdura, I inform you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, already on July 8, 2014, has asked ANAS for a very detailed technical report on the causes of the event, asking also to assess the need to carry out a punctual check, both of a documentary and inspection type, primarily in the compartment for Sicily, on other viaducts which by type, period of construction, characteristics of the prefabricated elements, etc., were similar to the viaduct which was the object of the collapse and, therefore, potentially at risk. On what happened, ANAS reported the following. On 7 July 2014, at about 11.25 am, there was the collapse of a span of the viaduct Petrulla, at km 4+500 of the highway 626, direction Licata-Braemi, between the municipalities of Licata and Braemi, in the province of Agrigento. The work, built at the end of the seventies, consists of 12 spans, with a total length of 492 meters. The ANAS, as soon as it received news of the event, promptly sent its technical personnel on site who, carried out the first verifications, hypothesized what possible cause of the structural collapse of the bridge, the break of the reinforced concrete beams prestressed support to the scaffolding. It should be pointed out that, up to the aforementioned episode, no premonitor signal had occurred on the viaduct, so as to highlight dangers of instability of the same, even during the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance work carried out on the work of art (adapting safety barriers, replacement of expansion joints, etc.). The ANAS has therefore appointed a technical commission (chaired by Professor Paolo Petrangeli, professor of the engineering faculty of the University of Rome La Sapienza, expert in bridges and large infrastructures), which on July 10, after obtaining authorization from the judicial police authorities, carried out a first inspection on the viaduct, necessary to examine the collapsed beams and inspect all the other bays; also, all the activities useful for the restoration of the road on the Petrulla bridge have been started. Similar surveys were also carried out immediately on the other eight viaducts located along the state road 626, having construction characteristics similar to those of the Petrulla bridge, to verify the existence of any structural defects. At the same time, in agreement with the Road Police, the local authorities and with the coordination of the prefecture of Agrigento, have been identified alternative routes to allow mobility in the area affected by the event. The very punctual reconstruction made by Senator Ruvolo commits us to move forward in this reconstruction, intervening to give solution to the topics discussed. The action of ANAS has, therefore, concentrated on the interventions of restoration of the route of the highway 123, to be used as an alternative connection to the state road 626, with times of journey rather superior, as recalled by Senator Ruvolo. On 25 July last, the highway 123 Licata was opened to transit (which is the shortest alternative route); the road was made accessible, with the only temporary prohibition of movement for heavy goods vehicles. At the same time, the additional measures necessary for the complete re-use of the alternative artery, which concern extraordinary maintenance related to the restoration of pavements, safety barriers, the renovation of the signs and the consolidation of a slope in landslide, due to the current partial closure of the road, have been defined. Work began on 15 September, with completion scheduled for the current month. About the state road 626 it is closed to traffic from km 0 to km 8,800, while for the remainder, following the checks carried out, ANAS has considered to impose the sole limitation of the prohibition of transit to heavy goods vehicles between km 16,300 and km 19,300. In addition, following the investigations carried out by the technical commission, it was found that the cause of the collapse of the scaffolding was due to the corrosion of the precompression cables placed inside the beams. The corrosive phenomenon, absolutely invisible to the external inspections carried out, has resulted in a progressive loss of load-bearing capacity of the beams until the collapse of the structure is reached. Although on September 18, the regional director of ANAS for Sicily asked for the possibility of access to the work for the execution of technical checks, to date the viaduct Petrulla remains under judicial seizure until the technical consultants, appointed by the prosecutor of the Republic of Agrigento, have completed the activity of competence. The ANAS has already prepared the project for the reconstruction of the collapsed span and for the recovery of the remaining ones, for an amount of about 3-4 million euros, that can be better specified only after the results of the necessary tests. The investigations following the collapse of the structure, immediately extended to the remaining viaducts, also showed the need to proceed with interventions to restore the static safety conditions, as well as on the viaduct Petrulla, also on the viaduct Salso which has similar construction characteristics. Also with regard to the bridge over the river Verdura, information was taken up at the same ANAS. On February 2, 2013, the collapse of two bays - as described on time - of the masonry bridge over the river Verdura, located on the highway 115 South Western Sicula. The ANAS has readily activated itself to restore the road on the aforementioned state, agreeing with the competent bodies a transitional solution and, at the same time, starting the design of a new bridge in place of the damaged one. The preliminary draft, drawn up in good time, was approved by ANAS on 3 April 2013. On 13 May 2013, ANAS opened the temporary bridge to traffic, restoring dual-way traffic. On 16 May the same company, after drawing up the final draft, undertook, in the Sicilian Region, the environmental impact assessment procedure and the environmental impact assessment procedure, in view of the fact that the work falls within a site of Community interest (SIC) "Foce of the river Verdura". Pending the issue of the environmental compatibility opinion, on 18 July 2013, ANAS initiated the further approval procedures established by the current rules. In this regard it is worth reconstructing the procedural procedure, because of what the news reports us these days. To date, permissions have been received from the Sicilian Region: the landscape authorization; the archaeological opinion and the authorization to demolish the existing bridge; the certificate of absence of hydrogeological constraint; the hydraulic clearance; the interforce opinion of the Regional Military Command of the South; the opinion on the compatibility of the work with the hydrogeological plan (PAI); the environmental impact assessment integrated by the impact assessment for the presence of the SIC "Foce of the river Verdura". All this would be enough to rebuild the bureaucratic delays that, unfortunately, occur also in a situation of great emergency, as well as that described by Senator Ruvolo. A greater commitment and, above all, a rapidisation of the procedures listed would be necessary to ensure that these absolutely necessary acts can be carried out at a faster time, also in order to give answers to the communities concerned. Finally, last 30 September, the Sicilian Region issued the decree on the urban location of the work: act, the latter, indispensable for the completion of the authorization process and for the start of the construction works. Following the issue of this regional measure, ANAS was able to initiate the procedures for the expropriation of the areas affected by the intervention; in fact, on 8 October, it forwarded the notices of initiation of the procedure of declaration of public utility to the owners of the land concerned, requesting the publication of the same notice to the pretorio of the municipalities concerned. Within 30 days of receipt of the aforementioned notices, the owners will be able to submit observations on which the ANAS, with a reasoned act, will have to give its opinion. Subsequently, ANAS will approve the final project, declaring the public utility of the work, and will complete the drafting of the executive project. This project will then have to be subject to the verification of compliance with the requirements contained in the regional environmental compatibility measure, issued by the Sicilian Region-Assorato territory and environment, and, as soon as the necessary funding is made available, the ANAS will launch the tender for the contract of the works. In conclusion, I inform you that the total cost of the new viaduct on the river Verdura has been estimated in about 12 million euros and is included in the Program of extraordinary maintenance of bridges, tunnels and interventions aimed at the safety of the road plan. For complete information, ANAS points out that on State road 115, in the section concerned, there are no gauge or load limitations for vehicles and there are no critical and/or anomalies. I would also remind you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in relation to the criticalities of the road infrastructure system, has launched, in recent years, specific programmes relating to extraordinary maintenance of bridges, viaducts and tunnels. I assure you, dear Senator Ruvolo, that we will take note of all the interventions you have requested to ensure that there can be an acceleration and above all a verification of the structures to avoid some episodes that you have just represented. In particular, Article 18, paragraph 10, of Decree-Law No 69 of 2013, and its law of conversion, has provided, among other things, that by decree of the Minister of Infrastructures and Transports is approved the program of extraordinary maintenance of bridges, viaducts and tunnels, as well as of the additional interventions aimed at increasing the safety and to improve the conditions of the road infrastructure and, through special agreements concluded with ANAS, have been identified, in detail, the interventions of extraordinary maintenance considered priority. These conventions also ensure continuous monitoring of the implementation of the planned interventions; moreover, the administration, both central and peripheral, can carry out checks and inspections on the state of implementation of the interventions. Finally, with the aforementioned programs of extraordinary maintenance of the works of art, it has been previewed, for the Sicilian road network, a financing of 37,9 million euros (ex article 18, paragraph 10, of the decree law n. 69 of 2013) for 3 participations and a financing of 49,5 million euros (ex article 1, paragraph 70, of the law n. 147 of 2013) for 33 participations. I assure you, Senator Ruvolo, that given the very detailed reconstruction of the needs indicated, especially in that area particularly affected by this phenomenon, the Government will follow in a timely manner not only the reports that you have made, but also the realization of the interventions that have already been foreseen by the Government, which promptly intervened, even using extraordinary procedures, to ensure that these interventions could be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u17	RUVOLO (GAL). Mr Secretary, I have to admit with great honesty that your answer has been very timely and articulate, but there is no presupposition. If I did not understand correctly, but I think I understood well, the realization (rebadisco: realization) of the bridge on the Verdura, whose estimated cost is 12 million euros, according to the first programming of ANAS, had to take place in the first months of 2014, once all the procedures have been completed. What is the state of the art instead? I must admit, for having experienced it personally, that the hiccups and obstacles of this Sicilian bureaucracy are horrendous. I do not know how many hundreds of other opinions of this or that body are needed for an opinion, so this is also an opportunity for the government to reflect on the fact that this situation can no longer go on. That's enough: you can no longer have forty ongoing procedures to request permission even on a cable that passes through any devilry. I know perfectly well that this does not depend on the government, but on the whole system, if that is what we mean. There is, however, a fundamental deficit, Mr. Undersecretary. It has been announced that EUR 12 million is needed. The bridge was to be completed in January-February 2014. But here there is no clear and precise statement that the bridge costs 12 million and the money is in a certain drawer. Once upon a time there was the decree of making one, which then became the decree of making two; I do not know which to do it's to wait. What I exhibit are words and also written documents, Mr. Undersecretary, coming from the ANAS summits. They are contained in e-mail and ordinary correspondence. The subject is reappearing, like yesterday's. Where's the money to build this bridge? Meanwhile, the question does not concern the criticalities of the road, which I know because I pass from there every day; given the location and precariousness of a river that discharges to the sea 200 million cubic meters of water, the question is what can happen from one moment to the next in case some intense rain should come. If ENEL's energy producers dump there all of a sudden, there will be nothing left. This was the critical issue that we have always highlighted. And the ANAS gentlemen know that. They know that very well. Why then have they announced, at different tables with public administrations, that by one year everything would be done and that the money was there, in the decree of making one and in the decree of making two? I repeat what I have already said, Mr. Undersecretary. I trust in your authoritative speech, and I acknowledge your authority to highlight what we are saying with a great sense of responsibility. No one has come to shout here, but our people suffer and are afraid: fear that a full one will come and everything will end.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u18	Question 3-01116 on the crisis in rice production in Italy follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's system of generalised tariff preferences offers developing countries reduced customs duties for certain products imported into the European market. The aim is to help beneficiary countries better integrate into world trade and thus contribute to their economic development, while respecting human rights and the principles of sustainable development. This system consists of a general scheme and two special schemes: a special scheme for sustainable development and good governance and a special scheme for the least developed countries. Under the current special arrangements for the least developed countries, the Common Customs Tariff duties are totally abolished for all products originating in these countries, excluding weapons and ammunition; this regime is also known by the English acronym EBA (which corresponds to all but weapons). Since the 2009-2010 marketing year, imports of rice into Europe from Cambodia (which is an EBA country) have increased from 5,000 tonnes to 181,000 tonnes, reaching 23% of the EU's total import. This increase is due both to the abolition of the tariff quota (in September 2009) and to the increased production capacity in the sector. As you know, Italy is the first rice producer in the European Union, with about 900,000 tonnes, of which 300,000 of the type indicates that, at present, it is the product category most affected by the surge in the volume of Cambodian imports. Cambodian competition is reducing market prices for raw (indicative type) rice produced in the European Union below production costs. The main purchasing countries for Cambodian rice are those where the largest reductions in Italian rice deliveries have been recorded: France, Poland, the Netherlands and Belgium. Having said that, I note that the problems raised by the interrogating senators - I thank Senator Bertuzzi for this - are known to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, which already since August 2013 has represented, in the Committee for the Management of Cereals, the market difficulties that emerged due to the increase recorded during the last period of import of processed rice from the least developed countries and, in particular, Cambodia. To date, the trend of imports highlighted by the interrogators is confirmed and also recently represented by the Italian delegation in the relevant European Union offices and at the various institutional levels. We therefore have the dreaded penalization of our productions because of zero-duty imports, particularly from Cambodia and Burma. That is precisely why we have already represented this issue at the Council of the European Union. I would also like to point out that, in agreement with the Ministry of Economic Development and after hearing the Italian authorities, we have drawn up a technical dossier indicating the constant deterioration of the commercial status of national rice production. The Italian delegation is in the process of submitting this dossier, pursuant to Article 22 of Regulation (EU) 978 of 2012, concerning the request for the safeguard clause (even in the Commission we had addressed this issue and already in July this request for the safeguard clause) for imports of rice from Cambodia, to the Community Executive Director-General for Trade, through the Italian Representation to the European Union. Nevertheless, although I have sent this request for a safeguard clause, I must inform Senator Bertuzzi, whom I thank once again, that Minister Martina - he has already announced - has started, within the European Union, a path to obtain on the label the identification, that is, the indication of the origin of the product. We have started negotiations within the European Union with the most productive countries - I am thinking of Spain - and Minister Martina has already started a confrontation with her Spanish colleague. However, I must say that the Government has also made some choices: I think within the rural development plans, where the possibility of a coupled award was envisaged and the Italian Government made a choice to support rice production. And I must add that the Regions (I think in particular of the Lombardy Region and the Piedmont Region) within the framework of the choices that the Regions themselves are operating, have provided additional support to the crops and, therefore, to the Italian rice growers. So, Senator Bertuzzi, thank you again for this question and we continue to work together because it is a particularly important dossier and a particularly important sector. The national government has assumed a role of primary supervision, but above all a proactive and active role on an affair that certainly engages our farmers and our rice growing, but it also engages the government on an economic side very important for our agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u22	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I am pleased with the answers that have been given to us over the months since July (the time when rice prices have fallen and the sector has been mobilizing for the government to put in place appropriate measures to accompany this critical moment) to date. I find in the Secretary's words an attention that has continued over time. I am aware that the roads to be followed are insidious and long. It is important that the relevant bodies of the European Union have arrived at the dossier for the application of the safeguard clause, which does not mean that our country ceases to be sensitive to taking action for measures that help the development of these countries not yet sufficiently developed. It is clear, however, that it must be aware that, where these clauses are applied which effectively eliminate fair competition from goods in the markets, there are probably those who take advantage of them. In fact, the presence of multinational companies that buy land in Cambodia has been noted: these are multinational companies that are certainly born in the richest countries and take advantage of this triangulation to allow their goods to arrive in a facilitated way on the markets. They are forms that do not help the development of that country and that charge too high a price to our producers. Well, then, from this point of view. The battle undertaken by the Minister to try to obtain the possibility, in the labelling dossier, to indicate the origin of rice, because in the end fair competition must also put the consumer in a position to know where what he eats comes from, a very important issue in these times when food safety is one of the issues that most interests and concerns our citizens at the same time. I believe that the news that you have given us, Mr Undersecretary, about the choice made by our regions, together with the Government, among the remaining measures, to introduce rice production among those who have access to coupled aid, is also important. I believe that this is an important signal, indicating the government's choice to consider rice as a strategic sector for our country's growth. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to work in conjunction with the Government, and I use this expression not out of proportion, because in the link that we are now dealing with in the Agriculture Committee - as you well know - an important article is dedicated precisely to the delegation for the drafting of the rice law, which the sector has long been waiting for. On the one hand, therefore, it is the identification of emerging measures at the time of the crisis, but, on the other hand, the ability to think in terms of perspective in this area. Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u23	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-352.ana.u24	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 18 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.12 p.m.
