ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 29 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (15:09 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u10	FABBRI (PD). Mr President, I think it is right and painful to recall the flood that hit my region, the Marches, last Saturday, 3 May. An extraordinary wave of incredible bad weather has struck a region that in recent years has suffered events so difficult to endure for a community, it has overwhelmed the lives of citizens, families and many entrepreneurs who have seen and who today, unfortunately, see their activity submerged by meters of mud. On behalf of the Marche senators, I would like to thank the President of the Marche Region, Gian Mario Spacca, and the mayor of Senigallia, the most affected city in the province of Ancona in our Region. I would also like to thank the fire department, civil protection and all the voluntary citizens who in those hours, in those dramatic minutes have worked hard to help people in difficulty. I believe that the Senate and this House must also be supportive and close to the families of the two victims who, unfortunately, have lost their lives despite the attempts of those who have tried to save them. The Marche Region has been suffering, like most of Italy, from a lasting crisis for years. This happens at the dawn of the tourist season, in a region that offers natural beauties of great importance. A tragedy of this kind only makes it even more difficult for so many entrepreneurs who have resisted the crisis in recent years and who are still trying to look with optimism at the future. In this House we could commit the government, but also the local institutions, thinking about climate change, integrated planning of the territory, maintenance of the infrastructure, but these are all very important actions that have an impact in the medium and long term. With this intervention as MPs of the Democratic Party we express not only a solidarity of way towards a affected community, but also the hope that this Government will accept immediately the declaration of state of calamity of the Marche Region and that additional resources will be provided for social shock absorbers in derogation for those many companies affected by this event and a moratorium that interests companies and citizens regarding the payment of taxes. I would like to remind you, Mr President, before concluding my speech, that the President of the Council of Ministers, Matteo Renzi, went in the aftermath of this tragic event in the flooded areas with the head of civil protection, Gabrielli. And I must say - out of a partisan perspective - that there has been an unprecedented attention to a very industrious Region, but that it has always tried to manage its dramatic events in great solitude and autonomy. I am sorry, however, to say that political controversy is also affecting events of this kind. In fact, I have just read an agency in which Beppe Grillo calls the President of the Council "sciacallo" because next Sunday he will go to the Marche Region to verify the state of the flood disaster. Mr President, since there are victims and entire communities that risk not only their present, but also their future, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that low politics and this way of doing politics do not belong to myself, to the members of the Marches Parliament and to those of the Democratic Party. I invite you to address a choral greeting to my colleague Silvana Amati, who unfortunately was the victim of the flood: I heard her again this morning and she is sorry that she cannot be present in the Chamber, but she has the house submerged by a metre and a half of mud, she no longer has the car, there is no electricity and telephone communications are struggling. Therefore, I believe that to you and to the whole of the Marche community - leaving aside the controversy - a warm greeting must be given. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u13	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to renew in this House the feelings of deep sorrow over the loss of two lives as a result of the calamity that struck the Marches last week. To Aldo Cicetti, Nicola Rossi and their families go our emotional thought and our sincere condolences. It should be noted - and certainly not in the spirit of controversy - that natural disasters are too frequent in the Marches. Once again we are faced with a disaster that is largely predictable. This Assembly must know that the municipality of Senigallia is one of the most affected by the national surveys, in particular the river Misa: the river Misa has in fact natural traits of type torrentice with sudden fullness that several times, even in recent decades, have affected the municipal territory. For this reason, since the eighties, with the then FIO Funds were allocated about 16 billion of the old lire for the project of the expansion and rolling chests and its realization. This project was planned by the company Aquater of the ENI group since the 1990s, but never realized; after a first regional management, the Region itself delegated to the realization of the work already planned with huge costs the same Municipality of Senigallia. The latter, delegated, after years of stalemate, in 1980 returned the delegation of the realization of the work to the Region; then the Region Marche, by virtue of the delegations transferred to the Provinces, further passed the delegation for these works designed in the eighties to the Province of Ancona. The Province of Ancona, with act of junta No. 524 of 2009, finally approved the final project (in fact, another project, with a cost of 130,000 euros). (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a calamitous affair that has struck the Marches, causing victims as well. Please, therefore, pay attention. Senator Ceroni, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u15	On 12 January 2010 the regional environmental impact assessment procedure of the work approved by the Province of Ancona was initiated; on 19 January 2011 with a regional decree, the environmental assessment and authorization office gave a positive result with prescriptions in order to carry out the work. It was 2011, since then (we are in 2014) nothing has been realized and recently, on April 3, 2014, with regional decree the office evaluation and environmental permissions has modified the previous decree eliminating in fact the prescriptions. It should be remembered that the terminal area of the river Misa is affected by the perimeter at risk R4 maximum degree, very high risk, for possible loss of human lives in the hydrogeological plan of the Marche Region; such perimeter was much more extensive and practically coinciding with that of the current exondation occurred last week. But as a result of the observations produced by the City Council, by this local administration of Senigallia, the area was restricted in order to favor the most biecious building speculation. The banks of the river Misa upstream of the city, which have literally destroyed themselves as a grove, are classified second category even according to the Royal decree still in force in 1904. On these works, which must be maintained as grassy meadows, the greatest measures must be taken. On the contrary, they have been kept in total state of abandonment. This is what generated the collapse of the arginal works and the sudden and disastrous flood, which resulted not from exceptional rains, but above all from so much carelessness and laxism of the competent bodies, among which we mention the Marche Region, the Province of Ancona and the Municipality of Senigallia. The responsibilities are all of the Municipality, which allowed the construction in those areas identified by the hydrogeological plan as dangerous. I believe we all agree with the requests made, and we would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, who has readily visited the Marches last Sunday - and I stress this - for checking the state of the place. Here, however, precise responsibilities must be identified, because it is no longer possible to see facts such as these in our country as a result of the carelessness and irresponsible attitudes of the municipal administrations. It would be very helpful if this time those responsible for what happened were to resign. [[Applause from Senator Luciano Rossi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u18	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Ceroni and Mrs Fabbri for explaining some of the Senigallia issue. I open a little controversy with Senator Fabbri. Senator, newspapers usually write a little as they please, and often, by the way, they are directed more by you than by us. The same criticism made to Renzi by Grillo, and reported in the newspapers - then you have to see - was addressed to Grillo when he went to Piombino for the closure of Lucchini and the problems of the work. So let us take it up with the press and raise the level of the debate in this House. Having said that, first of all I wish to express my condolences and closeness to the families of the two victims and my solidarity with all affected citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Bisinella]] Thanks should be given to the extraordinary work of civil protection workers, firemen, ENPAM, the Church and all those who, directly and indirectly, have given their contribution and help. Twenty centimeters of rain in a few hours have damaged roads, bridges, productive activities, private homes; they have interrupted communications and telephone and electrical lines. Someone even lost the car parked in front of the house, taken away from the flood. Ten are the displaced and unfortunately, in addition to broken roads, closures and inconveniences, two are the victims. The Misa flood devastated Senigallia. The Council of Ministers' recognition of the state of disaster is a must. Senigallia has always had some problems with flooding: a bit like Rome that has a threshold of tolerance perhaps even less to perturbations and as much Italy, where experts and good politicians, engaged in pharaonic works or in exchange bureaucracy and chatter and pinzillacchere, unfortunately do not have the same attention for prevention, serious structural works and the protection of the territory. Result: we always proceed by emergency. We've made the job precarious, but without a time limit, the emergency. Too easy is the line: "Piove, Government thief". But a "Ripiove" and we didn't learn anything, it's all there. Now there will be the usual late burst table and the justification is already in my ears: because of the balance of the budget, you cannot touch the funds, etc. Well, let's put it in the head: one thing is to waste, one thing is to invest well. Investing doesn't run out, but saves money. Everything that is investment must not enter the balance sheets as an exit, but as a future entry: it becomes in practice a future saving. Also, chapeau, Senigallia. The appreciation does not go to the political administration - which, as Mr Ceroni has explained, perhaps has different faults, but we refer them back - as to the citizens who, despite the huge damage and the deaths, have immediately committed themselves to cleaning up the mud to try to save what is possible and also the children. I would also like to remind you that a little girl, given that the citizens now take solidarity and the direct contribution of politicians for granted, asked President Renzi to cut his salary half for three months in order to rebuild his destroyed house. On the other hand, I would like to say to the President that his salary should not be halved in this case because it would be yet another electoral spot, such as the 80 euros, and that it does not end well. Unfortunately, the Marches are used to dealing with seismic disasters, hydrogeological disruptions and do not need this, but a serious, forward-looking strategic plan that protects and enhances the territory, as well as to make the best use of the resources available by law and those already allocated. Our country participates in numerous multilateral banks, including the Council of Europe Development Bank. Environmental and ecological disasters are explicitly included in the Institute's intervention areas. With a stake of around 16%, together with France and Germany, Italy is among the so-called big payers and has subscribed to all the capital increases of the Council of Europe Development Bank. Yet, of the 28 projects approved in 2012 by the bank's board of directors, for a total of almost 2 billion euros, none concerned Italy. I would like to inform you that today I will lodge a motion for the Government to undertake to consider the possibility of requesting the opening of a credit line in favour of the territories affected by the flood in the Marches, drawing on these funds. I call on all Senators, particularly the Marches, to sign it. I would also ask for clarity: that we do not recapture what happened for the last flood in Fermano, whose allocation of EUR 23 million by the Monti Government is not known where it has gone. I will present a parliamentary question on this subject, also as a result of the refusal to explain the use of these funds to repair the damage to individuals. I call on both the question and, above all, the motion to be taken. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u21	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, on behalf of the NCD Group, we share our condolences for the families of the two deaths of the tragic flood in the Marche region. We express our condolences to the families and the people of Marche. We also join, in full solidarity, all the displaced, those who have lost everything in these terrible hours. The images broadcast by local and national TVs were truly heartbreaking, and unfortunately we have seen such images too many times on national territory. We have seen fear, anger, resignation, a ghostly city: mud and water, that have taken away everything and that leave huge problems of the territory, for a region that lives on tourism and small and medium-sized artisan enterprise. These are situations that really require all our attention, all our solidarity and, above all, all our reaction of concrete help to these people. This is why we ask the Government to immediately accept the request made by the Marche Region and its President to declare the state of emergency, also in order to suspend the payment by companies of social security contributions and to facilitate the immediate restoration of the conditions necessary for the opening of the summer season that is approaching. The Marche Region, in fact, with its long Adriatic coast, is a territory with a strong tourist vocation. It is therefore absolutely necessary to immediately restore such an important tourist offer for both the Marches and our nation. Let me also remind you, Mr President, that in fifty years the Marches have already suffered ten great floods, the last in 2011, and we do not want to forget the two earthquakes that, unfortunately, have been there over the last fifty years. It is therefore a particular land, a land that needs to be carefully and punctually cared for with a programmatic plan of prevention. We want to tell the Region Marche as well as all the other Regions: less foreign interests or activities and also - let me say here - less financing for shows. More money, instead, from the Regions and the State for prevention, because then the families, the industries, and therefore the work, and because often and willingly these disasters take away human lives. Today we want to be very close to the whole territory and to the people of Marche: we want to be united with concrete acts, and we want to do so with so much solidarity. For this reason we also thank all those who came to help immediately, from civil protection workers, firemen, the Red Cross to the many volunteers of my Region, Emilia-Romagna, who, by territorial proximity, brought immediate help by providing medicines and everything else to buffer this important wound. However, we do not want to lower our guard, and we want to remind everyone today that there is a lot of work to be done. Once and for all, it is necessary to take a stand on the fragility of this national territory, which too often, at the hands of man, is facing major hydrogeological disasters. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u24	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Misto-SEL Group expresses first of all its closeness to the families affected by the mourning and the communities that have been so violently felt by the last of the calamitous events that this country has had to endure. I say the last, Mr President, because we all know, and we must not pretend not to know, what is behind these disasters. In some circumstances, however, most of us pretend not to know. I remind everyone of the discussion on the law of stability and the unworthy contribution, provided for in that law, to work against the hydrogeological failure of this country. I would remind everyone of the battle this Group has fought in the Environment Commission to draw the attention and commitment of the Government to preparing a multi-annual plan of ground protection interventions. I remind everyone that in recent months there have been dozens of victims of alluvial events; the Regions of Veneto and Emilia have been affected, Sardinia has been severely tested, and now the Marches are. I remember that every year we spend for the four, five or six alluvial events that so tragically mark this country hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros to intervene on the damage produced. [[The microphone is switched off due to a malfunction.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u25	You often speak, Senator Uras, and the microphone is particularly worn out. We'll have a check-up done at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u26	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, under these circumstances I'd rather not speak, I'd almost rather shut up. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL, PD and PI Groups]] The reality is that we are called to express ourselves, not only because there are mourning and ruins, but out of good conscience, to say also in this Parliament, in this House, that sometimes the best choice would be the one - and indeed suggested - of paying attention to prevention. That is why, in addition to the interventions in favour of the populations affected by this calamitous event, on which we will all vote unanimously, we would like to propose again to the attention of the Government and of the entire Parliament, especially the groups called for a greater responsibility because more, finally, the need for adequate legislation to defend the soil; finally, the need for a general plan of interventions against the hydrogeological failure that does not leave to chance, the extemporaneous initiative connected to some calamitous events, the measures that the State must take to defend itself and prevent that, together with the economic and social decadence, the country is also affected by the total destructuring of its territory. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u29	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would also like to express, on the part of the Group of the North League, sentiments of condolence for the families of the victims of this umpteenth natural disaster, as well as feelings of closeness and solidarity with the people of Marche. The water bomb of May 2 and 3 caused flooding, landslides, breaking banks; businesses and houses were flooded. Unfortunately, the Marche Region, less than a year after the earthquake of July 2013, is again hit by a natural disaster and, alas, is not the only region damaged by these disasters. I also want to remember the friends of Liguria, Piedmont, Veneto, Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, Abruzzo and Calabria. We too join in thanksgiving to all those who have worked in these hours, in these two three days: Civil Protection, the Fire Department, the Forces of Order, the many volunteers and also the local administrators. So that today's are not words in the wind and falls into the void, the North League also calls for the Government to commit itself to suspend the tax and contributory obligations of the affected people of Marche, so that they can reinvest these resources in order to restart production immediately, because production is life. In short, the people of Marche must not be abandoned at all and this must be a general rule in the event of disasters affecting the regions or individual communities. As my colleague Mr Uras has pointed out, in our country there is absolutely no prevention in relation to hydrogeological failure. I would like to remind you of the words of geologists who spoke about the natural disaster that struck the Marches, who said that in the Marches the hydrogeological disaster is activated just after a few drops of rain, that we are paying because nothing serious and programmatic is being done, nothing that favors the quality and effectiveness of the interventions of prevention and mitigation of hydrogeological risk, and, as usual, there is no talk of prevention. I too, like my colleague Mr Uras, stress that the few resources allocated in the stability law over the three years for reducing hydrogeological risk and for carrying out land defense work have been rehabilitated. These days there is an important article in a society that is highly regarded, which shows that, in the context of environmental taxes, businesses and citizens pay almost €50 billion per year. Too bad that little more than one percent is invested in soil defense works and in the prevention of hydrogeological risk; most of these resources and environmental taxes (we are talking about 99 percent) are used instead to cope with other expenses. It is time for this Parliament and this Government to move from words to deeds, moving seriously from the logic of emergency to the logic of prevention using this money that comes from environmental taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u30	The Presidency supports the appreciation of all those who have assisted the people of Senigallia and of all the areas of the Marches so badly affected once again and for the efficiency of so many authorities. It expresses its solidarity with the affected populations, its condolences to the families who have suffered mourning and to all those who have suffered serious damage. There were also victims. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's recollection in homage to these fallen and in solidarity with all the victims of this flood. [[The President stands, and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1464, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ichino, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are about to debate is the first stage in an ambitious plan to transform the Italian labour market. With the reform outlined in the draft delegation law, whose examination by the Commission of work is already under way, the Government intends to make the establishment of our national labour legislation much easier and to modify its essential content according to the flexsecurity model, which is the subject of the recommendations repeatedly made in recent years by the European Union to the Member States. A model that essentially implies the conjugation of the maximum possible flexibility of production structures with the greatest possible professional and economic security of the people involved in the employment crises and in the mobility processes from the old jobs to the new ones. Safety, therefore, built no longer on the cast of the employment relationship, but on the effectiveness of the support of income and of the assistance assured to the persons concerned in the inevitable passages between different jobs, which already constitute and increasingly will constitute physiological events completely normal in the professional life of each. In the immediate, provisional and urgent manner, the decree-law which we are considering is essentially aimed at anticipating the effects of this reform, immediately loosening the constraints concerning the establishment of working relationships according to the new principles which will inspire the order outlined in the draft law delegation. It therefore partially removes the regulatory diaphragm which today unduly impedes the encounter between demand and supply of labour, with the intention of producing a positive shock on the market, a significant increase in the flow of workers' employment in companies. While it is true that the rules do not have the power to create work, it is also true that they have the power to prevent the matching of supply and demand in the employment market. And this is precisely the case today of our country, where a labour law still structured in its central part according to the characteristics of the productive fabric of 50 years ago is poorly adapted to the fluidity - and even, in some of its segments, volatility - of the present productive fabric. Italian companies today are faced with the extraordinary opportunities offered by combining the incipient exit of the country from the recession with an economic recovery already started in the rest of the continent and with the benefits of the EXPO 2015 event; but the companies themselves find themselves operating in conditions of equally extraordinary uncertainty regarding the future, even in the short term. A uncertainty that does not have the same in any other previous period of the last century, because it derives not only from the unpredictability of the when and how much of the reversal of the national economic trend, but also from the unpredictability of global geopolitical variables that have never had the power today to upset the internal and international markets. On the other hand, the acceleration of the rate of obsolescence of applied techniques, of materials used for production, and of the same products, leads us to think that even for this aspect the greater uncertainty regarding the near future will characterize permanently the context in which our enterprises will have to operate, although in the presence of perspectives clearly better than the recent past. Half of our businesses are therefore finally beginning to have the opportunity to increase their demand significantly in the labour market, allowing the country to recover quickly the shares of employment lost in the last five years; but it is hampered by the risk that the general context, or the particular one that concerns each enterprise, can change in a negative way even in the short space of a few months or a few years. The system of labour market services and rules governing this market must also adapt to a more mobile and fluid productive fabric. And this adaptation must take place very quickly if we are to allow the most vital part of our production system to take advantage of the recovery already taking place in the rest of the continent and the Italy system to recover as quickly as possible the lost ground during the crisis, taking advantage of every opportunity to increase the work. This should also apply to the most vulnerable and at risk of drying up. The genetic and functional link between the decree today at our examination and the draft law delegation, which outlines the complete and organic reform of the labour market order, is expressed in the proposition that opens the first paragraph of Article 1 of the decree itself in the text approved yesterday by the Commission work, where it is specified that the provisions brought by the emergency measure are destined to be placed in the framework of a comprehensive reform aimed at building the economic and professional security of the people who work, not by the plastering of the individual working relationships - which instead must be all, both the ones in term, and those indeterminate, characterized by the necessary flexibility - but by a fair guarantee of the continuity of the income and an investment on the effective retraining of the people who, for whatever reason, lose a job, aimed at the actually existing job opportunities. I remember in this regard that today tens of thousands of jobs are censused in every Italian region that cannot be covered, due to the lack of people who have the qualifications required. The clarification of this link between the decree and the organic reform already in the yard is also necessary in order to exclude that the understanding of the legislator today is to make the contract of employment in term the only instrument available to the enterprises in order to respond to the situation of strong uncertainty of which it has been said. At the same time, the nature of a marked adaptability to changes in the context and needs of the productive fabric will have to cover all types of contractual relationship, even for an indefinite period, according to the best examples offered especially in Central and Northern Europe. In this perspective is placed the commitment of the Government and the majority, explained in the first paragraph of the first article of the decree, for the experimentation of the contract to indefinite time for increasing protection. The reform will also have to respond strongly to the need for a drastic simplification of labour legislation, which today is chaotically hypertrophic and written in an illegible way also for experts, and for a drastic simplification of the bureaucratic requirements required of entrepreneurs, which contribute to unduly increasing transaction costs in our labour market. In this perspective, the Government's commitment is set out in the first paragraph of the first article of the decree for the issuing of a simplified labor code. In recent days, the Commission has also been inspired by this requirement in selecting the amendments to be accepted from among those proposed, including from the opposition. On some of these, in particular Articles 4 and 5 of the decree, the Government yesterday reserved a reflection and will - I think - be the subject of a careful evaluation by this Assembly too. The decree before our examination therefore takes urgent charge of the necessity to allow the enterprises to exploit any opportunity to increase the productive volume and the staff, intervening with immediate effect in an incisive and effective way on the possibility to use the instrument of the contract in term. The first paragraph of Article 1 drastically removes the constraint of the motivation, not only for the fixed-term contract within the time limit of twelve months (as already permitted by Law No 92 of 2012, so-called Fornero law), but also for extensions up to a total maximum of thirty-six months. The European Directive No 70 of 1999 is complied with by maintaining, together with the three-year overall limit laid down, a maximum percentage limit of 20% of the stable workforce recorded on 1 January of the current year for forward working relationships on each holding. The lowering of the maximum number of extensions of the eight-to-five term contract - with which the House of Deputies has considered imposing an average duration of not less than six months of each contractual period agreed between the parties, in cases where the relationship covers the entire period allowed - does not appear to significantly alter the scope of regulatory innovation. With this legislative intervention, therefore, Italy exploits almost entirely - albeit with a good margin of safety constituted by the application of two out of three of the constraints provided as alternatives to each other by the European Directive - the space allowed by the Community law for the dissemination of the term contract. This is a very important turning point in our labour law, of which we will soon see the consequences also in terms of the sanctioning apparatus: the term contract is no longer considered by our national law as "socially dangerous" and therefore it no longer requires a "justification" that allows it to overcome the negative presumption that since 1962, for half a century, has accompanied it. The sole caution that surrounds its use, from now on - according to a standard that unites all the most advanced European countries, from neighboring Switzerland to Great Britain, from the Netherlands to Germany and Sweden - is aimed at preventing the term contract from becoming the normal form of work in the enterprise, that is the predominant type of negotiation between the employment contracts of which the enterprise is holder: this and only this is what the 20% limit, referring to the company's staff, is proposed to avoid. In order to reassure those who in recent weeks have considered to see in the decree the risk of a widening of the form of the term contract as normal form of employment in our Country, it must be remembered that in Italy, at the end of 2013, in terms of stocks (i.e. working relationships existing at a given time) the employment relationships were 13.8 percent, compared with 15 percent of France and 14.7% of Germany. If a defect can be seen in this part of the measure at our examination, it consists, if anything, in the fact that it ends up offering businesses and workers a single legal sub-type of ordinary employment relationship to cope with the extraordinary uncertainty, even in the short term, of which I have spoken earlier, or the sub-type of the forward contract. A contract, this, which paradoxically presupposes, by its nature, on the contrary, the programmatic agreement between the parties on a collaboration of which both the continuation of the utility for the enterprise for a precise predetermined period, as well as the loss of the utility itself at the end of the agreed period of time, would be predictable. In the short and medium term, however, the legal form of employment relationship which, by its very nature, would be better adapted to the uncertainty about the future, in the short and medium term, would be that of an indefinite contract from which each of the parties could, at least in the early years, bear a predetermined and reasonable cost of separation, withdraw from the relationship at the time when the interest in the continuation of the collaboration was lost, in which case the worker was guaranteed the necessary support in the market; instead, this legal form remains regulated according to a scheme - inaugurated in the private sector about half a century ago - substantially modelled on the model of public employment, corresponding to a productive fabric in which it was normal for a person to enter the company at a young age and remain there to work for 30 or 40 years, until retirement. Over the last fifteen years, this traditional form of permanent employment has become increasingly inaccessible to the new generations; and it has gradually come to lose ground in the flows of regular recruitment documented by the mandatory communications to the Ministry of Labour, compared to other forms of employment relationship characterized by the fixing of a final term: approximately 21.4% of permanent recruitment on the total flow of contracts in 2009 has been reduced to 16.5 percent in 2013, while the fraction of forward recruitment, always in terms of flow, has increased in the same period from 62.7 to 68 percent of the total. It is certainly positive that, in this crucial step for our economy, the use of the term contract by companies for the first phase of the integration of a person into the business fabric is greatly facilitated; but the objective of the facilitation of the encounter between supply and demand of work must, in the course of organic reform, also be pursued through a facilitation of the contract for an indefinite period, which constitutes and must continue to constitute the normal form of the relationship of work, recovering ground also in quantitative terms compared to the one in term. This is the design referred to, as has been said, as the so-called "preamble" inserted in the first paragraph of Article 1, where it mentions the experimental introduction of an indefinite contract with increasing protection. On the text of Article 1, as amended at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate's work committee made three amendments yesterday - on the initiative of the Government. The first (comma 1, letter b-sexies) aims to clarify that the obligation of information imposed on the employer in respect of the person hired with a term contract, about his right of precedence in rehiring, can and must be fulfilled with the reference of the right in question in the same document containing the new contract of employment, since the delivery of a special document is not necessary. The second amendment (comma 1, letter b-septies) concerns the civil sanction intended to apply in the event that the time contract has been concluded in excess of the 20% limit on the workforce. The penalty provided for consists of an administrative fine, equal to one fifth of the total remuneration covered by the contract in question for the first case of overrun in the individual production unit, which increases to half of the total remuneration in subsequent cases. This choice has been strongly contested in recent days in the Commission by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and Left Ecology and Freedom, and outside Parliament by CGIL, CISL and UGL (but not by the UIL) for its innovative content with respect to the sanction traditionally applicable in our legal system in such cases, i.e. with respect to the conversion of the term contract into an indefinite contract. What led Government and majority to this new orientation is a threefold consideration. First of all, there is the obvious irrationality of a sanction that involves the stabilisation not of the term contract entered into by the company for longer, but of the one concluded last. It is also worth considering the change in the typical negotiating presupposition which justifies the old legal orientation in the sense of conversion without a time limit. This traditional approach has always been based on the presumption that the agreed final term constitutes, in the understanding of the contractor, only an expedient to circumvent the discipline of dismissal, but not an essential element of the contract, since the entrepreneur, according to this presumption, would have concluded it without that clause, i.e. for an indefinite period. If this assumption were not taken into account, it would not be justified that, since the time limit was declared null and void, the contract should be maintained and stabilized. On the other hand, if - as in the situation of much greater uncertainty than in the past in which our companies operate today - it is to be considered that the term affixed is, for the most part, an essential element of the contract, since without that period it would not have been concluded, then the penalty for the irregularity of the time limit affixed can clearly no longer consist in the nullity of the imposition of the time limit accompanied by the conversion of the contract itself into an indefinite contract. Finally, it should be borne in mind that, if the term contract is no longer considered in itself an anomaly requiring a specific justification to be accepted by the company, but a contractual type of which the company can freely use for the first placement of a worker in the company, the sanction related to an extrinsic circumstance with respect to the individual contract and its cause (i.e. the fact that there are already a 20% of employees employed in that form) can obviously no longer consist as in the past in the conversion to an indefinite time, but can and must consist of another disincentive, effective but not disturbing compared to the negotiating structure of the relationship desired by the parties. In other words, the conversion of the term contract into an indefinite contract generates a discrasia between sanction and injured interest: the latter is not in fact the interest of the individual worker last entered into the company, but the general interest to have at least four fifths of the company's staff are under permanent contract. Thus, the discourse moves from the ratio of the choice of a sanction technique different from the past to the ratio of the quantification of the financial penalty. Its determination in 20% of gross salary corresponds to the understanding, for a verse, of placing the disbursement above the'reload' normally practiced by the agencies specializing in the administration of labor, which is mostly around 15% of the gross salary; to the understanding, on the other hand, not to penalise in an excessive way the first increase compared to the limit, which can be caused by mere imprecision in the calculation of farm staff. On the other hand, when the time contract exceeds the limit is not the first, the penalty increases to 50% of the remuneration: an increase in cost clearly capable of effectively discouraging any abuse, without generating the distortion and irrationality of the stabilisation of the only last contract entered into. It is aimed at clarifying the intentions of the legislator in issuing Article 1, with the important amendment of the Government of which I said, and therefore to clarify the correct interpretation of the new provision, a series of agendas that yesterday were accepted by the Government itself during the examination of the decree in the Commission. I refer to agendas Nos 4/1464, 1/11 and 3/11, which clarify, with particular but not exclusive reference to the sectors of commerce, tourism and entertainment, that the limits laid down by Article 1 do not apply to the succession of years in the year of new forward contracts between the same employer and the same provider of work (the same, of course, applies in relation to the agricultural sector, for which the exclusion provided for by Article 10, paragraph 2 of Legislative Decree No 368 of 2001 remains in force). The matter of renewals, pending the organic settlement of the matter entrusted to the aforementioned law delegation and to the legislative decree that will follow, remains governed by the provisions laid down in this regard by Article 5 of the legislative decree of 2001. I am also referring to agenda No 4/1464, which further explains what is already laid down in the 2001 legislative decree on the subsidiary nature of legislative intervention in relation to collective bargaining and, therefore, the fact that the regulation gives priority to collective autonomy to regulate otherwise the limits on fixed-term employment contracts. This applies, in particular, to the exemption of start-ups (i.e. of start-ups) from the limits relating to the percentage of full-time contracts. I am referring, again, to the agendas of the day G/1464/4/11 and G/1464/18/11, which reaffirms the already established legislative decree n. 368 of 2001 and Directive 2008/104/EC in the sense of excluding from the scope of the rules of the term contract of all relationships related to the work being administered by agency. The agenda G/1464/21/11 commits the Government to work in the interpretation and application of the new rule in order to avoid the result of a compression of the possible duration of the term contract for the replacement of person on leave, in accordance with Article 33 of Legislative Decree No 151 of 2001. Finally, the agenda G/1464/22/11, to protect both parties of the report, sets out the scope of the penalty imposed for the time contract exceeding the staff limit. This sanction operates only on an administrative level, involving the payment of compensation to the employer and excluding any further civil sanctions: the contract remains valid and effective, it produces all its effects until the agreed deadline; in order to avoid any compensation is due to the individual provider concerned, since in the new legal context the affixing of the term to the contract, if stipulated in the due form, is in itself legitimate, not requiring any justification. The third amendment to Article 1 consists of the addition to paragraph 1 of a b-octies letter containing the exemption from the maximum limit of 20% of persons employed in the firm's staff for researchers and technical staff of public or private scientific research institutes. It also allows the term contract for scientific research activities to run until the completion of the research project on the basis of which it was concluded (disposition contained in a different period of the same paragraph). Both provisions are justified in view of the fact that in the field of scientific research the engagement in term according to the scheme of the three-year, four-year or five-year period, possibly likely to double, constitutes a standard commonly applied and respected at international level and, as such, already practiced in this field also in our country. In this connection, it was stressed in the Commission that the only second provision, i.e. exemption from the overall duration limit of the term relationship, should be applicable to contracts concluded with researchers, depending on research projects, by undertakings or foundations which do not have research as their main activity. In this respect, it should be stressed that in most cases research projects financed by the European Union, the calls themselves provide for a five-year period. It would therefore be very inappropriate for the participation in these notices to be precluded from Italian companies only because of the ordinary limit of 36 months laid down by Article 1 of the Decree-Law. In this connection, I note that the provision already in its wording approved by the Commission can be interpreted in this sense; the distinction between the scope of the two provisions can be underlined by a separation of the two lines in coordination. In this regard, it should be recalled that, if the management sector is excluded, only in the field of research, companies are available to conclude time contracts of more than three years' duration: these contracts constitute a very rigid relationship, drastically excluding the possibility of withdrawal for a relatively long period. So there is no reason to prevent it. Article 2 of the decree to our examination intervenes on the matter of the apprenticeship contract, bringing some news to the single text in force (legislative decree no. 167 of 2011). Paragraph 1, letter a), number 1 of this article, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies and approved by the Senate Work Commission, provides that the written contract contains the individual training plan from the beginning, while the pre-existing discipline provided for a deadline of 30 days from the beginning of the report for its drafting, and the original text of the decree at our examination removed this obligation altogether. It is expected, however, that the training plan will be in summary form, while the previous discipline provided for the need for its detailed definition, which favoured the emergence of an ex post judicial dispute concerning the perfection of the fulfillment of the training obligation. The provisions appearing under numbers 2 and 3 of the same letter (a) amend the pre-existing rule which conditioned the possibility of hiring new apprentices by enterprises with more than ten employees to a percentage of 30% (50 per cent since July 2015) of converting apprenticeship relationships into ordinary employment contracts in the previous period. In particular, while the original text of the decree provides for the deletion of that condition, the text in our examination restores it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ichino, since you have already spoken extensively, please conclude your report. ICHINO, rapporteur. I complete this part on apprenticeships and for the rest refer to the written report. In Article 2 of the Decree, the minimum percentage of the conversion of previous apprenticeship relationships into ordinary employment contracts for the recruitment of new apprentices is reduced to 20%, referring this percentage to the previous three-year period. On the other hand, it remains the same with regard to the former, the very complex rules governing the criteria for calculating the apprenticeship ratios converted into ordinary work and the exemptions for the enterprise. I refer the rest to the subject of apprenticeships, to the written report, and I do the same for subsequent articles, by restricting myself to a general comment, which does not concern the substance of the measure under consideration, but the form of its drafting. This too, like too many legislative measures that Parliament produces in the field of work (and not only that), is illegible by the millions of people to whom it is intended and who will have to apply it. I note that it would not have been at all difficult to write it in a much more readable form, as well as more in line with the guidelines proposed by the European Union with the Decalogue for Smart Regulation, issued in Stockholm on 10 November 2009. It would already have been much better, for example, that in Article 1 we had written Articles 1 and 4 of Legislative Decree No 368 of 2001 are replaced by the following, and we have reported the new text in full. Since the Offices do this to make the rule readable to us parliamentarians, we do not understand why we parliamentarians cannot do the same for Italian citizens who will have to apply the law. The hope is that the new simplified labor code, whose construction site was opened with bill No. 1428, also marks a turning point in the way we write the laws, at least in the field of work. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u33	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of the report to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u34	Mr President, we have waited patiently for the end of Senator Ichino's very long report: I realize that the dream of a lifetime is fulfilled, that of completely deconstructing the world of work, but we should also have some caution in respecting the times, since we are always asked to do so. We believe, and also the amendments we have tabled to the text of the Decree-Law, that this measure is deeply marked by very serious constitutional issues. From a political point of view, I want to make it clear that we consider this decree absolutely in contradiction, among other things, with the announcements made by President Renzi when he spoke of contracts for increasing protection. We are faced with what the rapporteur, Mr Ichino, has, in some way, stated in his report as a historical fact: the fact of moving from a fixed-term contract as an absolute anomaly of the system and therefore of labour law to a total liberalisation - it is the fundamental step of the decree - of the term contracts, which become "causative" contracts. What will this lead to? It will mean that these types of contracts, fixed-term contracts, will become the norm of employment relationships and no longer the anomaly. This is seen as a step forward, and this is also the big issue from a political point of view. All this is done in the moment of greatest suffering in our country, where I do not know if one is fooled, it pretends to believe that, continuing to change the norms of the labour market, the norms on the job, create jobs with the magic wand. From this point of view we will have to remember here the tremendous data of recent years: the exit from the recession is announced, but as you know the data on unemployment, job losses, are constantly increasing. The instruments put in place by the Decree-Law under consideration will improve working conditions and certainly not create new jobs. It would serve a great deal more than that; it would be useful for companies to be sure: we could be arguing here for a long time. On the contrary, once again, we arrive at what has always been the heart of the issues on the part of those who have wanted in these years, perennially and constantly, to disassemble piece by piece the Workers' Statute and to remove any dignity and respect for the workers themselves. In the text of the decree-law no longer distinguishes between the first term contracts and subsequent contracts between the parties, and no longer requires any causality to be achieved either for the contract or for its extensions or renewals. The term contract, therefore, can always be used for everyone without explaining why and without linking to a temporary requirement, as always, you can use administration contracts, which have become nothing other than forward contracts (i.e. indirect contracts). The only limit is not to exceed, on the whole, the 36 months of term use of the same worker so as not to trigger - this was the general rule - an indeterminate transformation. A limit that already existed and that today, with the amendments submitted by the Government and approved in the Commission, as you know, has been further modified, in an absolutely negative way, through the introduction not of the permanent transformation of the contract, but simply of the sanction; sanction that certainly does not benefit the workers and that it can easily be taken into account of the business costs in the face of a direct and instrumental advantage of the possibility of use of the contracts in term beyond the prescribed terms. We believe that all this violates paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the Constitution, because it totally harms, in our opinion, the right to work, failing all the initial conditions of security and stability aimed at making effective this right that the norm should guarantee to citizens. The provisions of the decree-law are, in our opinion, in clear contrast to the European legislation on forward contracts, which was transposed precisely by Legislative Decree No 368 of 2001, and which has now completely changed. The European Directive requires objective reasons for the conclusion of a time contract, or at least for its extensions or renewals, and prevents, by a non-regression clause, any deterioration of the rules governing the transposition of that Directive. The grounds for inconstitutionality for specific violations of Articles 2 and 4 of the Constitution, which protect the fundamental rights of workers, and also for the unreasonableness that this decree introduces into the system of employment relations, are fully evident. There is a substantial structural change, because the permanent contract, which was to be the common form of employment relationship, will in fact become the absolutely abnormal form. Furthermore, the provisions of the decree-law, which I believe to be clearly unconstitutional, we think can be challenged in any court, from the Court of Justice of the European Union to our Constitutional Court. The changes introduced by the Government and then voted on in the Commission, such as the replacement of an administrative sanction to the obligation to rehire as a result of the violation of the 20% percentage limit of forward contracts on all workers employed in the company and the increase from 30 to 50 of the number of employees of a company beyond which the recruitment of new apprentices can take place only after having carried out the permanent recruitment of apprentices already employed aggravate even more these reasons of unconstitutionality. The reason for these changes is not relevant to the need for a probationary period during which to assess the worker's professional skills: in the fixed-term contract the probationary period already exists, and may also exist in the regular term contracts. The real reason - we all know - is another: with the term contract the worker lives and works under the permanent blackmail of the non extension. Such blackmail does not work with the permanent contract, which can only be resolved in the presence of a just cause. This is what you are introducing through this decree. We believe that it would also be appropriate to assess the consistency between the provisions on the single contract with increasing safeguards contained in the delegation law - we will see how this will end - and the provisions of Article 1 of the decree-law on our examination. These are the reasons why we do not believe that the draft law should be examined. In political terms, we believe that this may be less propaganda in the election campaign because it is in total contradiction to the announcements made. Mr President, I will take another minute to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u35	All right, but you've already been given some more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u36	DE PETRIS. Speaking of announcements, the bill passed by the House against the resignation in white arrived to the Senate in total silence, despite the vote of the House, and was placed in the drawer and generically indicated as content in the delegation. These are the electoral commitments that had been made and that in this way are honoured. This decree will only increase insecurity and will certainly not give the opportunity to offer decent and serious work to the many people, women and men, who are currently experiencing a condition of serious suffering for the lack of work. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u37	He asked Senator Buccarella to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u38	Mr President, the 5 Star Movement Group has also tabled a preliminary question, which we believe is absolutely well founded and which I would like to outline briefly. It is based essentially on two conditions which interweave each other. The first concerns the incoherence, the illogicality and the danger of some provisions included in the decree, whose title would paradoxically refer to measures aimed at promoting the revival of employment. The second condition concerns the obvious opposition to Community rules. These are constitutionally important defects which, even in the light of a well-established case-law, we wish to point out right now, in the course of Parliament's work, before they are highlighted in the courts. This is something on which we call your attention. Our remarks, in fact, far from wanting to be instrumental or openoristically against government reform, adhere to a possible future scenario that can be realized - if this decree in an inauspicious way should be approved - within the framework of what will be a very relevant judicial litigation and of which the whole country will have to take charge. The presentation of the question for a preliminary ruling was necessary for the rejection of the main proposals for amending improvements and substance presented by the 5 Star Movement Group during the examination of the measure by the Commission in the referee, who, moreover, had very strict deadlines to examine the text approved by the House, as is well known to those who speak and to those who listen (if he listens), given the legislative procedures of urgency that the Government imposes on this Parliament everything, including a majority. Therefore, the changes introduced in the Commission do not allow us to change our judgment in relation to the whole of the decree. In particular, the new contractual discipline, in the part in which it eliminates the constraint of the motivation both for the fixed-term contract and for its extensions and renewals, creates a serious disharmony in the legislative body in the matter of work. Our Constitutional Charter puts labour law in a prominent position, reaffirming the fundamental nature of the social protection system for workers. In this context, any intervention by the legislator, and even more so if it is the Government that takes up this function under the provisions of Article 77 of the Constitution, should be consistent with the letter and spirit of the working dimension in the constitutional context. The text in question would allow the use of a particular contractual form without any causal objectivity and in the absence of any intervention on the necessary safeguards for the income and stability of workers. In this regard, let us remember that a very dangerous aspect is that, in addition to the institutionalized precariousness that this decree-law will impose, all this would happen in the total absence of any form of social support such as, for example, the income of citizenship [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : an instrument that we always hoped could be a support network, at least to avoid that those who fall into this abyss of the precarious, together with the other abyss of Equitalia and whatever else our country reserves, are not condemned to crumble. In particular, the draft law in question runs counter to the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court No 41 of 2000 which reiterated, by reviewing the Community rules in the field, the importance of objective reasons for the fixed-term assumption and for the possible extension thereof. Hence the scenarios of a judicial dispute today difficult to quantify. The failure of this principle leads to a clear and clear further conflict, not a national one, but with Community Directive No 70 of 28 June 1999, which was adopted, as is well known, with the precise aim of preventing abuses resulting from the use of a succession of fixed-term contracts or employment relationships. Therefore, in the light of the discretion granted to the national legislator for the implementation of the directive in the internal legal system, we are faced with a radical lack of guarantees, in direct contrast to the letter and spirit of the directive and the framework agreement between the European social partners. The result is an unreasonable incentive of the term contract to the fixed-term contract, which instead represents - for national and Community legislation - the common form of employment relations, with the return of choice to the employer's arbitrariness. When the premises of the act (employment renewal) are in contradiction with the conclusions of the act (the increase in precariousness) it must be deduced a vice of constitutionality, inherent in unreasonableness, within the meaning of Article 3 of the Constitution. The failure of a parameter to assess the temporary requirement underlying the contract contributes to putting the worker at the mercy of extensions or renewals, in direct contrast to Articles 2 and 4 of the Constitution, which you continue to tear apart. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the infringement of Community law, the question will soon arise whether the national court can apply the Community rule directly instead of the national rule which conflicts with it, but it certainly raises a problem in relation to Articles 10 and 117 of the Constitution. We therefore ask that the Senate decide not to proceed with the examination of bill No. 1464, which we have called the "precari act". And I close my speech with a brief slogan that will accompany the work of this branch of Parliament by the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group: Never more slaves, slaves never more. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u39	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain a further question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u40	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group proposes not to proceed with the examination of this decree, because, starting with the hope of responding to the needs of the country, which sees unemployment at record levels, with 3,250,000 jobless, of which 42.7% under 25 years of age, it does not constitute a reform capable of going in the direction of the current needs. It would be nice to think that we can guarantee everyone the fixed place, perhaps comfortable, that reflects the aspirations of each one. Unfortunately, this is not the general situation, neither of Italy, nor of other European countries and of the world, so we must put in place a reform that responds to reality. Instead, after some good ideas emerged in the original text, in the passage to the House, at the behest of the Democratic Party which, as is well known, has the majority alone, it has gone in the opposite direction. Almost everyone agreed that the Fornero law introduced excessive rigidities that create difficulties for companies and consequently for those who could work in them. With this reform it was thought to reduce these constraints, and in fact some constraints were shyly reduced, but then a new thing was introduced, never introduced before, even in the Fornero law: the notorious limit of 20% of fixed-term posts compared to the total number of employees (among other things, the norm is not even clear). In any case, a very rigid bond has been introduced that previously did not exist (and indeed we were previously in a less serious crisis), so it follows that in the face of a worsening crisis the law worsens. Yesterday the Union of artisans of Milan estimated that in the province of Milan alone 2,400 contracts could not be renewed in application of this law: 2,400 people who today work, produce, spend and have a hope for their future, with the law that we are preparing to approve here will come to you sent home, looking for a job that will be increasingly difficult to find, further people looking for something to do, some perspective for themselves and for their family. To these 2,400 people - I repeat, in the province of Milan alone - are added, again according to the Unione artisana of Milan, a thousand others who today are on apprenticeship and that tomorrow, with this law, could no longer work, could no longer carry out this training period. Well, in the face of this, there really is something to be avoided. By law thousands of unemployed are created: 2,400 people in the province of Milan alone, which is about a thirtieth in our country. Let's say it's a twentieth, because it's definitely one of the most industrialized provinces in our country, if we multiply 2,400 by twenty, we have tens of thousands of jobs canceled with this measure called decree-law work, and rather we should call it decree-law unemployment. In addition, there are extremely confusing sanctions. The alleged improvements, those that today are trying to pass as such, are mainly two. The sanction for companies that have more than 20% fixed-term contracts (the old penalty that has been removed, the one approved in the House) provided that the surplus should still be assumed indefinitely: it was ipso facto assumed indefinitely. The penalty that has been introduced in the Commission provides that, if this limit is exceeded, if there is only one additional worker, there is a fine of 20% of the salary; if there is more than one, the fine is 50% of the salary. Therefore, if these workers cost a company 100,000 euros, in addition to the 100,000 euros that of course must continue to pull out to pay these people, they must get out another 50,000 fine, as if we were at a time when employment is overflowing and then we can quietly tax companies. The result will be that these enterprises will look at themselves well and will also stay far away from these limits, because in addition to being negative and unreasonable limits, they are also written in a confused way. For example, in a company that has 100 employees, if 20 are fixed-term, you do not understand whether it is in order or not; in fact, if we talk about 20% of the total number of contracts, then this company is in order; if instead, as in other ways, it would seem, it refers to 20% of the contracts for an indefinite period, this company, with 80 contracts for an indefinite period, could not have more than 16 fixed-term contracts. So with 20, which is 20%, it would be out of order. As far as sanctions are concerned, as written, it would even seem possible for the legislation to have to pay it on all workers. We hope that this total unreasonableness will never be applied, but writing things better would not have been bad, since we are talking about the skin of workers and the survival of companies. All this can only make the current situation worse, but there are other aspects to be highlighted: a positive amendment, amendment 1,4000, tabled by the Government concerning research, but - note well - research only if carried out by public research institutions or private research bodies. A normal company that does its duty and also its effort to remain competitive with other companies and with other countries, that does research, that has that department of research and development that every good and great company should have, that with great effort even in times of crisis tries to finance, cannot have the same facilities as the public researcher of public bodies, on whose efficiency there is much to be skeptical. If it is a public body, it can take researchers on a fixed-term basis; if it is a private company that produces, and does so with its own money instead of taxpayers' money, it cannot do so. This is truly a statist, veteran-syndicalist mentality, which is the opposite of what our country needs. It's not like Italy's changing direction! Yes, it changes towards and returns to the logic of the 1960s-1970s of wages as an independent variable, the one that created all that mentality that still survives today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We have tabled a number of amendments, for example, to extend the rule to all research (that we have the decency at least to put private individuals, who do research with their own money, and the public body, very often a coach, who do so at the expense of the taxpayer), and we hope that at least in this House they will be approved, because this has not been the case in the Commission. I shall conclude by pointing out that a situation is getting worse here. Three years ago, at the end of the Berlusconi government, when Berlusconi resigned, there were 1,250,000 fewer unemployed. In these three years 1,250,000 more unemployed have been created, and that is not bad luck: it is because policies have been made opposed to the necessary ones, so where flexibility was needed, rigidity has been introduced, where it was necessary to give a little free hand to private individuals, so that they can act, a statist mentality has been introduced. It could be said that at the same time, however, the accounts have been cleaned up. The accounts have been so healed that the total public debt has risen from 1,888 billion to 2,107 billion, i.e. 219 billion more. In these only three years 10 percent more debt has been produced than the 35 in which, roughly, the total debt itself has been created. Really a failure policy, and the decree as amended seems to want to go further along this path. That is why we are asking, Mr President, that we do not go ahead and that we stop to think about something which does not have to meet certain trade unions, but rather the needs of businesses, young people and non-young people who are desperately looking for work and who do not want to lose what they have. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u44	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I do not think that there is any measure whatsoever that deserves recognition of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, which should be taken into account not only from the point of view of consistency with the fundamental principles of our system contained in our Charter, but above all in relation to an employment emergency that is clear to all. Italy is the country that has had the worst trend among the industrialized countries in the course of the great crisis. Cronically, the Italian labour market has always recorded low employment rates in comparison with other industrialized countries, even at times of most tumultuous economic development. There has always been a sort of chronic setback in our labour market and, unfortunately, in relation to the legislative novation produced by the Fornero law, we have lost 6.5 points of employment over the years. So how not to take urgent measures, measures to encourage a willingness to take? This is the meaning of the measure desired by the Government. All its contents, particularly in the light of the Commission's amending work, are devoted to increasing this propensity in those who do so, i.e. employers. I find the remarks of my friend Malan, who belongs to a parliamentary group, that of Forza Italia, who in the Chamber, in the Committee on Labour, supported all the amendments of the Democratic Party, and then positively changed its opinion, in the parliamentary passage of the Commission here in the Senate. I ask Senator Malan to look at things in their actual reality: 20% of the forward contracts have always been contained in all collective labour agreements. Therefore, the novelty of the law, in reality, is not such. The law wanted to codify what is found in all contracts, but at the same time it recognized the primacy of the contract over the law itself, that is, the possibility, through the negotiation of each level, to change this percentage. On the other hand, I would like to remind Senator Malan that the basis of calculation is that of the staff of all employees, so the dramatization that he did, probably reading poorly some documents already poorly written, does not comfort these concerns. As I would like to recall what Mr Ichino said a moment ago about the derogation granted to activities carried out under research and innovation programmes, which relate not only to the public dimension but also to the private dimension, especially as regards the duration of these contracts, which must be related to the duration of the research and innovation programmes themselves for all employers, no one excluded. In short, we proceed with prompt examination of this provision so that then we can resume the process of the delegation law and, with this, we can realize that ambitious project of a single text that gives simple and certain rules to the many who, in the time of the great crisis and great uncertainties, despite everything, want to undertake and assume. I hope that soon the House will confirm the conditions for further progress and for voting as quickly as possible on a useful measure, as useful are all the rules that recognise the need to free work from constraints, as well as from the tax burden, in order to free work. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u47	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank you for this opportunity, which I will not abuse. The remarks made by Mr Malan in the reference made by Forza Italia are all correct and correctly presented on the basis of the texts adopted in the Commission, so I would ask everyone to look at these texts with particular attention because the remarks made by us have also been raised by major trade associations. I take the example of the Milanese craftsmen, who yesterday, already trying to apply the confused text of the law, found that in some parts it does not remove the great shadow that stretches on the new labour market of the possible disputes deriving from what was approved in the Commission. As far as research organisations are concerned, I am sure that it will be clarified by this House and by the competence and ability of our fellow senators to understand that the measure refers only to public or private research bodies, in the specific condition of their status, and not to all employers of those companies that carry out research programmes, which finance with their funds, with their resources, which then make available to the entire economic system the benefit of real, applied research, on product or process innovation that produces economy, jobs, wealth and, above all, that gross domestic product that continues to ignore everyone, taken, as we are, to look at other data. But since we cannot dream of having all the public fixed positions, we must be concerned about how every innovation on the labour market helps the only real players in the economy, who are the workers together with companies, and not just the workers within the State. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u48	Students and teachers of the Institute including San Gregorio Magno, San Gregorio Magno, in the province of Salerno are attending the Senate's work. Greetings from the presidency and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u49	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1), Senator Catalfo and other Senators (QP2) and Senator Malan. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u52	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we obtain the opinion of the CNEL. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They're melting it, Senator Puglia. [[Laughter. Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Malan.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Let's get him to work and make sure that, with the money we spend, he gets at least a job. Given that the measure in question contains legislation relating to the economy and labour, I would therefore ask you to take the CNEL's view on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u53	Senator Puglia, your request is comparable to a suspensive question; therefore, we can put it to the vote immediately and the Assembly can express itself as if it were a suspensive request. I put to the vote the request to obtain the formal opinion of the CNEL made by Senator Puglia. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work we have done in the 11th The Commission has been important and valuable. I would therefore like to thank Mr Luigi Bobba, the President of the Commission, the rapporteur and all my colleagues. The majority had a very complex task: to sew up the Chamber's rifts, which had finished its work with a vote of confidence, to allow political forces to meet on a higher synthesis, to block the risk of not arriving here at the Assembly in the right times and to overcome the dangers of obstructionism, but to listen to the proposals and initiatives of the oppositions. I would say that we have achieved all these objectives. We have not been facilitated by the work done by the House, where there are other numerical balances, but not several majorities, and that is why the valuable work we have done in the Commission responsible is even more valuable. I know that the real challenge in the coming weeks will be the discussion and approval of the delegation at work: it is a great and important challenge for all of us. There we will have to develop the long-awaited reform of the labour market, define the best tools to meet demand and supply of work, reorganize social shock absorbers, identify a careful and punctual experimentation on the minimum wage of inclusion, reintegrate the rules on delegation in white, as we have committed ourselves to doing in the work in the Commission. The instruments, the delegation and what we are going to approve are very connected, as they are connected to the tax decree, which for the first time directly reduces the IRPEF on employees to the lowest incomes: in short, the famous (and instrumentally vilified by someone) 80 euros, which represent a significant figure. How many union battles and workers' strikes have been spent over the years to get improvements in contracts far below! The delegation that we are preparing to discuss, this instrument, the tax decree must all cooperate in a vehement shock to the economy in deep crisis. The matter we are dealing with today is delicate; recipes over the years have been contradictory, approaches often and too much are ideological and the risk of choosing the path of the beautiful soul that does not get dirty hands, that pontificates but that does not affect the real life of the people is always, unfortunately, in ambush. The PD has chosen the way of vigorously supporting the work of the Government, and we have carried out a sensitive and important task in the Commission. Do we like everything about this decree, do we fully convince ourselves? Partly. We must deal with the conditions given, for the social emergency that has been determined and for the political balance that exists in the Senate; but given the one and the other issue, we have certainly achieved a good result. The uncertainties of this conjuncture are great, the contradictions are great. The markets are shocked by the great finance and there is a risk that entire generations of young people will remain outside the labour market, despite their masters, degrees and diplomas. The numbers, as well as the chills, as someone said, bring tears to the eyes - as a mother. Interesting changes have been included in the House, largely maintained and partly modified by the amendments tabled by the Government to the Commission. Significant instruments have been included: new rules for forward contracts, simplification of the rules for apprenticeships by providing for mixed training, the register of workers, simplification of the DURC, intervention on solidarity contracts. In the political debate these days, and also in some references to the speeches now heard on the prejudices, I have noticed, however, an excess of emphasis, of ideological office, even some point of catastrophism, especially on the issue of forward contracts, as if today we discovered that they exist. In the country of fictitious VAT matches and the exploitation of youth black labour, it is certainly not this decree that favors precariousness; indeed, we must deal with the fact that some limitations imposed so far not only have not reduced it but have strongly and drastically radicalized it. The precarious work is there, and there is a jungle around these workers. Often, precisely because of the existing constraints, the precarious worker comes from the company simply replaced by another person: a sort of preventive dismantling of the precarious worker, often very young. It is enough to be in contact with people in the flesh to understand that the system should be realistically taken into account. Important are the rules concerning the role of the Regions in the field of training activities; they will have to inform in detail of their offer and will be able to take advantage of the support of the companies for the transfer of skills. Financial penalties have been imposed on companies that will not meet the 20% ceiling on forward contracts with the hiring of extra shares. The first payment will have a penalty of 20% of the working wage and, since the second payment, the penalty will be 50% of the salary. These are important and heavy sanctions and what Mr Malan said just now confirms to me that we have done well to include them in this scope. The thirty-six-month derogations are important for research entities which will work in conjunction with research projects themselves. The dimensional threshold above which the obligation to take 20 percent under 29 will be valid before being able to frame others has been raised to 50 units. It is therefore important to look at this legislative intervention in close liaison with the next delegation. It is essential in this regard to have included in the preamble, by the strong will of the Democratic Party, the reference to the experimentation of the permanent contract with increasing protection. They are important and significant innovations that modernise, but do not abandon the important principle of solidarity. In short, we wanted to strengthen some important innovations with previous work in the Commission. I would also like to thank Mr Bobba for his willingness to accept as a recommendation my agenda, also signed by my colleague, Mr Caleo, on the precariousness of the Provinces' employment centres. Now we are ready to face the greatest challenge, that of jobs act, and above all to seek every possible form to create work and promote the revival of employment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u55	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this decree, the Government hopes to relaunch employment. However, it is yet another measure that favours the precariousness and the reduction of wages, while it would have been more appropriate to create work, even before regulating it. This was to be the essence of the Work Plan, announced months ago by the Secretary of the Democratic Party, now President of the Council. And it is absurd that with the PD to the Government there are not, to date, plans of public policies for development, of industrial policies, as well as investments and public incentives. In the context of the greatest reduction in unemployment that we are experiencing today, perhaps we should think better about the objectives to be pursued over the next few years in the fields of health, education, culture, social and environmental quality and in relation to them identify the productive sectors of goods and services to be promoted through policies of support, incentives and vocational training. I believe that the interweaving of policies of full employment and guaranteed income cannot be solved by the combination of income and flexibility, but can only be dealt with by a return of economic policy, with a set of macroeconomic and industrial policy instruments. During this period the guaranteed minimum income is once again at the heart of the political debate and the prerequisite for any reflection on social and economic policy is that austerity is unsustainable and, therefore, the most appropriate way to look at the introduction of a guaranteed minimum wage is to think of it as a progressive welfare reform. The government, on the other hand, chooses the path of flexibility by presenting it as an innovative solution to unemployment in our country where there are more than 3 million unemployed. There are almost 700,000 unemployed young people between the ages of 15 and 24. Eurostat data show that in Italy, among young people, the percentage of precarious workers is 52.9%. Despite this, the rate of youth unemployment has not only not decreased but has indeed increased, to a maximum historical level of 42.7%. Worst figure since 1977. Twenty years of labour reforms have produced only a flexible generation. The flexibility of work involves the precariousness of life, life projects never realized because they are continually postponed. With what certainty will young people face their future? Forming a family, having children, accessing a mortgage to buy a house with a month's contract, maybe two, is really unthinkable. Flexible work involves significant personal and social costs. Work not only guarantees pay but also and above all an identity. You have an identity with respect to the work that takes place. Insecurity means objective and subjective insecurity. It is a source of anxiety and suffering. The precariousness experienced by workers means loss of control of one's life. Workers with such a state of stress will not be able to increase the much desired productivity. Moreover, most flexible jobs do not allow specific professional competence to be acquired. Insecure contracts are a wrong way to compete with other countries. The creation of qualityless jobs, in short, will not help to revive our economy. The decree-law under consideration provides that companies may freely conclude fixed-term contracts without justifying this choice and renew them, always without justification, up to five times over three years. All this actually increases the precariousness. At the end of the contract in time, the previous rules stipulated that at least 30% of the precarious persons should be permanently employed; now, on the other hand, the president. I invite you to conclude, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). ...in the event of an infringement of the new 20% limit, only one administrative penalty has been imposed. Therefore, the obligation to hire also skips. Unfortunately, it continues to encourage low-cost and low-skilled labour with the effect of not pushing companies to invest in innovation. It is a losing strategy, as the history of recent years has shown. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u58	Mr President, on the so-called work decree-law, it seems to me, generally speaking, that the persistent precariousness of work has not achieved any expansionary effects of the economic cycle. I do not intend to take a position hostile to the party's line, but I do not believe that the changes made last night in the Commission's work are of benefit to the prospects of economic recovery. We need expansionary monetary, budgetary, fiscal and labour policies. Expansive monetary policies have already been implemented, fortunately, also by the ECB. The letter asking for a derogation from the European constraints for 2015 is an important move in budgetary policy. From a fiscal point of view, we hope for tax delegation. On the job side, on the other hand, to put pressure - with often irrational pay for the dignity of the person - on a large part of the generation under 40 does not seem to me to be an intelligent attitude to overcome the crisis. I would point out that the debate in the United States is on this very point. A few days ago in the U.S. Senate the Republicans took sides against the increase in the minimum contract. I wouldn't want the government allies to be inspired by that logic. I hope that in the next measure, which will take the form of a delegated law, we will find a way of affirming the line that everyone must contribute to the recovery. So, not only the precarious ones who aspire to stabilize themselves and those who are paid on the project, but also those who have enjoyed for ten years this part of huge rents of position. With regard to the textual changes to the measure adopted by the Commission, I have tabled amendments with other colleagues which are aimed at simplifying legislation and, together, towards the construction of a system of conveniences in favour of stable work with the non-secondary effect of pushing investment in the so-called high level of competitiveness. A system of conveniences is envisaged whereby temporary and flexible labour costs exceed stable labour costs by extending the 4% levy established by Law No 196 of 1997. Another amendment concerns the replacement of non-causal forward working relationships not covered by seasonality by the introduction of increasing safeguards through the modification of the test event regime. I merely hope that an amendment to the so-called Fornero Rite will be adopted in this House, on which Mr Ichino has shown himself available and the Government and President of the Commission have agreed. As you know, the work process, since 1973, is already a summary rite and works on average better than the ordinary civil rite. The Fornero law of 2012 has split the rite of the appeal of illegitimate dismissal in two procedural phases, the first of which substantially useless, because always prodromic to the second. In essence, all workers, judges and lawyers, of labour law ask to return to the original rite. For this reason, the amendment aims to delete Article 1, paragraphs 47 to 69, of Law No 92 of 2012. I hope that the rapporteur, Senator Ichino, and the Government will agree and want to do so. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u59	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u60	Mr President, today we are examining the second decree of the legislature dealing in detail with the work. I remember as if it were yesterday (also because it was the first months we were in these dark rooms, to which we have already given some light) that in June we examined that decree on work. I said that the decree would have more publicity than occupation. Alas, I was right. I say alas because creating employment is fundamental to the legislator. Well (in fact, bad): on that occasion that decree had a megagalactic advertising through the media, which then are always present here. However, it would be appropriate - and I am addressing the media - to deepen the news, because otherwise they risk advertising something which, in the end, turns out to be a lie. Therefore, the measure at our examination today has been defined as "jobs act," using English to give the Italian people an impression of professionalism and particularity. That's enough, that's enough, that's enough! So, let's come to us: this provision, in Article 1, contains the "precariate act" or "precariate act," other than "jobs act" or "precariate act." In fact, it contains first of all the non-obligability of the insertion of the causality; in reality, the non-obligability of the insertion of the causality, to those who chew works matter, does not sound new, because it has already been adopted. It is in fact a rule that was introduced in the year 2012 for particular categories and was contained in article 1-a of Legislative Decree no. 368 of 2001, which is precisely what contains the legislation on the fixed time: therefore, already there was. So, I looked at the data, because we have to make sure that an impression has its own objectivity, which comes only from the data. I would point out that they are not data of the 5 Star Movement, but of the ISTAT, for which they are objective. Well, the first thing that jumped to my eye is the table for workers engaged in the fixed-term contract. I examined the years 2012 and 2013. I remind myself first of all that that rule, which removed the causality, was introduced in the middle of 2012, so technically - you know perhaps better than I do - at the economic level, when you examine the data, to verify the incisiveness of a work regulation, you evaluate the following six months, that is to say 2013. Well, in 2013, employment with fixed-term contracts decreased. Once again you advertise it, and before that I even heard a colleague talk about shock and say that it takes a shock at work. Other than shock: this legislation is Attila! Attila of people's rights. What a shock! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where your norm passes, there we burn the future of our children. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Attila! Then, if I examine the activation data of these contracts, I detect a decrease in 2013: the fixed-term contract, that is, the contract that already had a regulation that would have had to push - according to obviously how much you think - the work, has not even been seen and calculated by the employers. Employment of this type of contract fell; even in 2011 it was higher, as it was in 2010. In essence, 2013 was the year of the destruction of the fixed-term contract. But obviously someone could immediately raise a problem (Senator Puglia addresses the right bank of the hemicycle) and argue that the fixed-term contract was then transformed. Of course, you always have a word for something. Well, we have the objective support for something: also the transformations from fixed time to indefinite time, in the year 2013, have come down. I repeat, they're down. So, at this point, since objective data already tell us that that type of change is absolutely not for employment even on the basis of fixed-term contracts, the only observation we can make is that you are introducing the so-called precariousness for all. I remind you of the sentence of the felon who said: Less taxes for all. In this case, the current sentence of "Renzusconi" - of course the two are put together - is: More precarious for all. This is the mantra. In fact, the regulatory system of the Poletti decree contains rules that give a boost not to work, but to precarious work. It does not contain any provision of industrial strategy. It will not bring new occupation, but it will insecure the existing one [[Recalls of the President]] , therefore the unemployment rate will not fall. It will not improve the bureaucratic passages inherent in the apprenticeship contract, nor will new incentives be established for this type of contract, so the levels of youth unemployment will not fall. But, precarious work, the future of young people becomes just as precarious. There is no more savings at this point; young people do not save anymore and, therefore, there is no longer a community state capable of putting aside wealth, which historically Italians have always done and have envied us all over the world: but it has been understood, and then they want to hit us precisely on that. The purchasing power will drop, thereby reducing the ability to spend. By reducing this, we will no longer seek the quality of a product, but the economics. Looking for economics, you will buy in the large distribution, to the detriment of small entrepreneurs, the people of VAT matches, which must be helped: they are our Italians who hold those companies. The large distributions are mostly managed by foreign companies, and they buy abroad or, if they buy in Italy, they give our agricultural and industrial producers money. Today there are parents who wonder why the child cannot work or has a precarious job and has no prospect in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u61	Please finish the sentence, Senator Puglia, I've even given you a little more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u62	PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I am quite finished. I just need 60 seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I already gave it to him, so five seconds to close. PUGLIA (M5S). When even the small entrepreneur wonders why he cannot sell, it will be said that he is devoting the future to precariousness and handing Italy over to the big business groups. Stop! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was January when the Secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi, emphatically announced an extraordinary plan for work, the jobs act, aimed at creating thousands of jobs in culture, tourism, agriculture, construction and many other sectors of the economy. There was talk of lower taxation (the people who produce work pay less!) there was talk of simplification and reduction of contractual forms. In short, an occupational revolution was promised. Words! On the other hand, yet another great disappointment has arrived: the acceleration for the increase of the occupational level has been a race, yes, but, still. Despite everything, the secretary of the PD was rewarded by becoming, without popular legitimacy, President of the Council and, by using the general dissatisfaction for the development and employment impressed on the Italy system, has unleashed - let's say the truth - in an unelegant manner Enrico Letta, premier of the failed Government of Peacefulness. Governments that emerged from the 2013 general elections were all born with the aim of combating the economic crisis and the rampant scourge of unemployment, but to date they have managed to create only failures. After the wretched Fornero reform (born from another maneuver of the Palace), actions were expected to revive the occupation that lives a state of deep crisis. The latest data provided by ISTAT show a negative record of unemployment at 13%. The figure is, of course, an average for the whole of the country. As we know, however, unemployment, although present and growing even at the Centre-North, reaches disastrous percentages in the South of the country, with peaks of 28 percent. Photography fadees further if you analyze the slice of young people without work that in different Provinces reaches the peak of 50 percent. But the scenario of war is not over and causes the victims of the lack of employment to rise: 3.5 million Italian citizens are suffocated in the grip. The increase in the unemployed, says Eurostat, is the third highest in the European Union, after Cyprus and Greece. Renzi himself, on an institutional visit to London, defined the shocking fact. We at Forza Italia expected responsible and serious action, a concrete parliamentary discussion to put work back at the heart of the country's political agenda. Instead, the jobs act disappoints not only us, but everyone. The government gives birth to a mouse, a useless measure carried out with confidence in the House. Instead of speeding up bureaucracy and promoting employment, it hinders the work of entrepreneurs by providing punitive sanctions for companies that exceed the 20% ceiling of time contracts; it also limits the number of contractual extensions and obliges them to hire 20% of apprentices, creating further crises, as Mr Malan has said. After the failure of the Fornero law this pseudo-reform was lacking to create further problems for the Italy it produces. At a time of economic and employment crisis, instead of removing the snares of bureaucracy to return to hire, it is preferable to tax entrepreneurs by sanctioning them. You have reached a majority agreement through a downward compromise to please Alfano's newborn party. Dear colleagues, to the detriment of Italy emerges the contradiction between the first jobs act announced by Renzi and this measure that has undergone various restyling sui generis. The famous honeymoon with the government is now over. The Italians understood that behind the announcements there are only tensions of a Democratic Party and its leader in perennial electoral campaign. Our recipe is opposed to what you present and has the ingredients to raise the country's economy: reduction of taxes to encourage businesses allowing more investments of the same, reduction of contributory charges and laces and laces for new recruitments, as stated by President Berlusconi. It is not a slogan of our leader but a demand of large industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans and traders. Of the Italy it produces. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u66	Mr President, there are too many people, either by calculation or by conviction, who are listening to criticism of this decree, which my party and I consider particularly worthy and which we will vote with absolute conviction. I think that many of the arguments we have heard here are as pretentious as they are unfounded, as they are clumsy, in some cases even uninformed. It seems paradoxical, but at the same time in this House - we will also listen to it in the course of this debate - there are those who argue that this decree contains too much flexibility and, on the contrary, there are those who represent the idea that it would contain too little of it and would contain too many complications, too much bureaucracy. I believe that those who claim that the decree contains too much flexibility should be reminded - as has also been said today in authoritative debates - that so far the rules governing the operation of fixed-term contracts and apprenticeships have not genuinely worked. (Followed by Mr Lepri) Until now, the law provides for only one extension, inter alia with a period of intermezzo between a renewal. This has led to a gradual lowering of the number of fixed-term contracts and the growth of other forms of undeclared and atypical work: co.co.pro., co.co.co.co., the administration contract, project contracts, training traineeships which should be an important tool, and are, to ensure the alternation between training and work and to possibly start immediately after study to work experience, but which too often seem to be used by entrepreneurs for the difficulty and not convenient use of fixed-term contracts. Why, then, insist on a single extension? The other objection that is being raised today is clear: the penalty above 20% in the relationship between fixed-term and indefinite work would be too weak. But I ask: who can be that entrepreneur who, without hurting and wondering about the opportunity, is willing to pay when 20, when 50 percent more than the cost? It is clear that if this entrepreneur has a good assessment of the young man he has experienced for three years in a row, he has every interest in stabilizing him, if he has the possibility. Perhaps the theorists of indeterminate time for all prefer a dual system where, on the one hand, there are absolutely guaranteed and, on the other, an increasing audience of atypical. I would like to remind you - some colleagues have already done so - that the fixed time and apprenticeship which, in the will of the Government and of this majority, must and can become the prevailing real alternative to indeterminate time - at least in the trial phase and the first start to work - are still protective for workers, particularly young workers, not only because social security contributions are paid but because these contracts, at least as they have been foreshadowed, provide for a progressive stabilisation with the possibility of renewal up to five times, in a continuous way and without any subsequent interruptions or extensions. To those who object, to the opposite, that this decree would have little flexibility and too much bureaucracy it is easy to answer with the elimination of causality, with the fact of being able to renew several times in succession, as I have already mentioned, the fixed-term contract so as to know more and more the young worker and, at the same time, allow prudence to the entrepreneur who, putting into being more contracts can also conclude contracts of more limited duration, even if consecutive. Therefore, we give the entrepreneur both the possibility to reduce the fixed time and to be able to renew it several times in continuity. What is more flexible than this solution and at the same time more protective in a logic of progressive loyalty to the worker? As far as apprenticeship is concerned, the law so far provides that all enterprises must stabilize 30% or 50% of young people on apprenticeship contracts in order to have new ones. With the decree the percentage is reduced, and only for medium and large enterprises, so that small enterprises can experiment with it with absolute freedom, even with a contract absolutely protecting young people in apprenticeship. And eventually, if they have the interest, they will be able to confirm it without the absurd constraints that someone would have wanted and that basically aim to put the brunts to entrepreneurs who, instead, from freedom, albeit regulated, must find the space for their initiative. I would like to mention one last objection, which is partly well-founded and partly advanced in order to put obstacles in place rather than out of real conviction. It has been said from several quarters that there is a need to replace the deadlines set by the contract with increasing safeguards. This, not from today, is an important proposal, in some ways fascinating, and it is contained - I would like to remind you - in the delegation of work that we are about to face in the coming weeks. Therefore, the question is already raised, but it must be clarified, and it is no coincidence that it was at least temporarily placed sideways (of course not sidelined). We do not understand, in fact, we did not understand, we could not go further - let us say this - until the end if this contract should be interpreted in the sense of replacing fixed-term contracts. So, the way to experiment with a new worker is only that of the permanent contract to increasing protections? This is probably not a solution, because it is clear that in not a few cases fixed-term contracts are used not so much and not only to experiment with a worker, all the more so if young, but to answer peaks of question that are not certain and as such that instrument, that contract, at least as far as I can think, cannot be entirely substitute for fixed-term contracts. It will certainly be able, at least in part, to replace fixed-term contracts, but it was necessary to clarify this point that has not been defined, just as it has not been sufficiently clarified, because there was no time, it was not included in the decree, the question that the fixed-term contract for increasing safeguards applies only for the first three years of the working life of the young person, or even throughout the worker's working period. These and other issues have prevented us from having the opportunity to discuss a proposal that certainly, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned and certainly as far as I am concerned, deserves proper consideration as soon as possible. I think I have sufficiently argued for the reasons why my party and I in particular - other colleagues will be making the explanation of vote - want to strongly support the decree that the government has submitted and the changes that have been tabled during the parliamentary process. It is clear that, in conclusion, this decree is not a revolution. Nobody is under any illusion that this decree can at once solve the dramatic problems of unemployment in Italy, especially youth unemployment, or that it can lead to a major change in the structure of labour law, which certainly needs a powerful revision. We hope that this powerful review will find room in the implementation of the delegation of work, which - I repeat - is close to the debate in the 11th Commission, and then in our parliamentary classrooms. But this decree certainly has its indisputable value, aimed on the one hand at flexibleizing the two contracts, the fixed-term one and the apprenticeship one, which more than anyone can guarantee protection for workers beyond the fixed-term contract. On the contrary, it is a decree that also ensures protection for workers not only - as I said - in relation to the guarantees of payment of social security obligations, but also in the sense of a progressive loyalty of the worker and therefore in the perspective of its stabilization. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u67	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the subject of work is a field that is well suited to ideological clashes, I think it is possible to extrapolate a number of shared points from the current debate. We are all very concerned about the levels of unemployment achieved in our country: a total unemployment of 13% and a youth of 43%, as has been said by other people, which exceeds 50% in some regions of the South. We are also all concerned that, at present, it seems unrealistic to assume that there will shortly be a recovery in production and growth capable of promoting a significant increase in employment. The same majority admit that the light at the end of the tunnel of the crisis is still weak and that to reign in all sectors of the country is uncertainty and prudence. The slight increase in expected GDP in 2014 certainly does not anticipate significant progress in the willingness of companies to take on in the coming months. We are all also aware of the data on the quality of employment and new employment contracts. Among the new recruitments in the field of employee work, only 15 percent are permanent. Among young people the most common form of employment relationship is already the precarious contract today. The combined effect between precarious work, intermittent social security payments and pension reform with the contributory method has already triggered the timer of a social bomb that requires us to quickly find a radical and courageous solution that passes necessarily from a strengthening of social shock absorbers and active policies for work. Largely shared (at least in words and newspapers) is also the idea that precarious work must cost more to the companies that use it and the worker who does it must be paid more, in order to encourage, through the economic lever, companies to employ indefinitely. At present, however, the difference in cost between fixed-term and fixed-term work is too little important to represent a valid incentive for the stabilisation of employment contracts. The image of the forward-looking entrepreneur, who in order not to escape a good employee makes him a contract proposal that cannot be refused, seems likely only for cases concerning highly specialized professional figures and however, in general, not credible in a country where the workforce is seen, unfortunately, more as a cost than as a resource of the company; a cultural limit of our productive system that we should not underestimate since it represents a brake on the meritocracy and one of the main reasons why our young more enterprising evaluates more positive working abroad. We are also apparently all in agreement with what former Minister Giovannini has already said: it is not the Ministry of Labour that creates jobs and it is not intervening on the labour market rules that fight unemployment. A position confirmed by the OECD itself that since 2003, on repeated occasions and reports has come to admit that, according to their own data, there is no evidence that lower legislative protection of employment leads to an increase in the employment rate. On the contrary, the business world calls for clear and certain rules and does not like continuous regulatory interventions that generate further uncertainty and interpretative doubts. Everyone complains, for example, that dozens of different types of contract have been accumulated in the Italian labour market over time and that simplification is rightly called for. However, we share the awareness that to create work it is necessary to act on the general economic policy, relaunching public and private investments, fighting corruption and illegality, simplifying the public administration and creating that climate of confidence in the country that makes the consumption and the production system restart. Therefore, if these are the premises, between concerns and awareness, that more or less we can consider valid for a shared and non-ideological discussion, we must also admit that the government's provision turns out to be partial and incomplete in the means and, unfortunately, useless for the end. What urgent measure for the recovery of employment is contained in it, if it is true what has just been said about the relationship between greater flexibility and higher employment rates? Someone even spoke of revolutionary intervention. To define revolutionary a measure that, ultimately, aims to eliminate disputes at work and pursues this objective by further increasing the flexibility in the use of term contracts and apprenticeship contracts, is at least an improper use of Italian: what would be revolutionary in pursuing the road taken by Italy for a long time, of the continuous and progressive precariousization of the labour market? The revolution would be if, at last, instead of only taking care of flexibility, we focused on security, on the reform of social shock absorbers and employment centres, on income support measures for those who cease work in the future and have not immediately got another job, on the reduction of the many different types of contract. But all this refers, in part, to the law delegates and meanwhile removes the causality from fixed-term contracts without any counterpart that incentives to the stabilization of work. Amendments have been tabled to this effect, such as those which provide for an insecurity allowance for workers with fixed-term contracts, which are corrective measures necessary to confirm in fact, and not only in words, that the common form of employment relationship is the permanent contract. But it seems obvious that the government has no intention of engaging in a balanced and comprehensive measure. The priority interest is to show a result achieved and it does not matter if one intervenes for the umpteenth time on the labour market with a partial measure and in all probability susceptible to subsequent and next changes, precisely, with the law delegation. As proposed, Article 1 is unacceptable because if it is true that time contracts are already much more used than permanent contracts, it is also true that this measure extends the probationary period for new recruits to three years without the greatest risk of job loss being compensated in any way to the worker. More than a reasoned liberalization of the forward contract framed in a comprehensive reform that also sees flexibility as an opportunity for the worker, Article 1 underpins a vision of labour policies aimed at dismantling workers' rights. In this sense, also the constraints introduced, both in the form of the maximum ceiling on fixed-term contracts concluded by a company in relation to the number of its employees and in the form of the obligation to recruit an apprentice quota indefinitely, as provided for in Article 2, appear as true fig leaves. In fact, the 20 per cent legal ceiling for fixed-term contracts is circumventable through administration contracts that are not counted for the purpose of reaching the limit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The requirement to stabilize 20% of apprentices, in addition to being reduced in proportion to the Fornero reform, does not apply to employers employing less than fifty employees. On this last point, I would like to mention Congressman Damiano, who rightly said to the House: "Confirming a stabilisation principle means preventing an entrepreneur from taking those apprentices, leaving them at home, taking other apprentices, leaving them at home, i.e. low-cost labour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u69	Senator Bencini, you should finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u70	BENCINI (Mixed). Damiano is right, but why, by grace, should a sacred principle apply only to employers employing more than fifty employees? I'll finish. The problem of this decree is ultimately that it does not look forward at all, but proposes old solutions without the ambition to design a different society and not resigned to wild precariousness. I can therefore only confirm my negative view of a measure that moves in the opposite direction and against the objective of promoting good flexibility. A flexibility that, in addition to being made sustainable by combining it with social security, also represents an opportunity for workers and the result of a conscious and free choice. If flexibility is imposed by the economic system and involves all workers regardless of their aspirations and priorities in life, then the social cost of this precariousness becomes unacceptable. As a result, the decree also becomes unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Roman Senators Maurizio and Bignami. Voices from the stands, from which sheets are thrown.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u71	Clear the stands! (Voices from the tribune). Pending the removal of the stands, the sitting is suspended. (Parliamentary assistants remove two people.) (The sitting was suspended at 5.52 p.m. and resumed at 5.57 p.m.) Let's resume our work. The episode will be reported to the President of the Senate, for any initiatives he considers to have to take against both the senators and those who were present in the gallery. So let us continue the general discussion on the draft law when we examine it. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u72	Madam President, in the vicinity of what has happened, allow me to express my indignation and concern about what has happened today. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Comments from the M5S Group),]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u73	The concern is well-founded and concerns us all. However, I would ask you to take up your speech, in conjunction with your assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u74	MANCUSE (NCD). Let's get back to our subject. As is usually said in these cases (I am clearly referring to the decree we are talking about): all is well what ends well. As it was right that it was, the examination of the decree by the Senate Work Commission was profitable and allowed, thanks to a responsible mediation among the majority parties, to restore some fundamental principles of the original text proposed by the Government, bringing the parties together in a shared text that, although it does not satisfy us totally, allows us to express satisfaction because the modifying action, strongly ideologicalized, wanted by the PD to the House, which forced the Government to put trust. We have responsibly voted for trust, but this clearly does not mean that we agreed on the substance of what we voted for, because we know that in the Senate we would have put forward our reasons for bringing the final text back close to the original text, and indeed we did. In fact, what matters at such a delicate time in Italy for employment - the unemployment rate is dangerously approaching 13%, resulting in our being one of the last European nations - is to do work, and to do so we need simple and certain rules, while the details wanted by one part of the PD to the House had made the decree-law more complicated and uncertain, so as to cancel the expected effects. Thanks to this decree, time contracts will be easier because the deterrent has been significantly reduced when they are in excess, in which case they continue until the end of the period. Their renewals are possible as in the case of seasonal work. Research activities have even more flexible conditions. Apprenticeship contracts return to being seasonal, they are made more secure in their relationship with the regions, they allow companies to play a greater role in training, they cost less when they concern minors who have not completed the educational process. There can be no doubt - the data published by the Ministry of Labour tell us - that the fixed-term contract is a flywheel for employment and represents a more than concrete opportunity for the creation of new jobs. In 2013, 70 percent of the new employment relationships had the type of term contract, which was the driving force preventing the percentage of employees in our country from sinking. Therefore, we believe that the New Right Center is a fair battle, and we made ourselves the leader so that the decree-law work would not be watered down and sclerotized by the left closest to conservative and tradunionist syndicalism. We cannot allow ourselves to stand in the way of the undertakings they want to hire by introducing, as guarantees for the worker, constraints and rules that penalise first and foremost those seeking work, starting with our young people. We also welcome the financial penalties, rather than the employer's obligation to hire, in the event of a 20% ceiling being exceeded on the total number of employees, which seems to me quite clear - it will also be misspelled - refers to the mass of permanent workers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MANCUSE (NCD). We cannot allow the rhetoric of the protection and formal guarantees of precarious work and anti-business preconceptions to prevail, the culture of the obligation of over-guaranteeed jobs in the absence of employment, the permanent contract as an independent variable of the market and business dynamics: they are outdated and anachronistic cultures that produce unemployment and undeclared work. On these issues we measure the reform of an executive that wants to be really modern and innovative. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u75	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u76	Mr President, in reply to Senator Mancuso, who feels disdained because a worker who was in the gallery has led to such a level of exasperation as to possibly risk his safety, I say that I am exasperated as such worker. I am outraged at this policy that has led people to this situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the PD Group]] We wonder what is the model of development and work you want for Italy. The Renzi Government, has decided its line: it is called precariousness for life. Today I read the statement and appreciation of the rapporteur, Pietro Ichino, who says that we are finally complying with international standards. Gentlemen, with Decree-Law No 34 of 20 March 2014, you raised the roof from 30 to 50 employees beyond which the stabilization of a quota of apprentices takes place. Today, companies with fewer than 50 employees employ about 65 percent of workers. In other words, a young man will have a lot of chances of stabilized as much as winning a lottery. All you've put on time contracts is financial penalties. The obligation to employ permanent workers falls short if the 20% ceiling is exceeded. The practical translation is that there will no longer be legal constraints on the precarious employment relationship. If you, employer, are ready to pay a surcharge you can hire and kick out employees without any limitation. It is called the Legalization of the precarious for life; or, better, the pago and the licentious. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Are these international standards? Mother Teresa of Calcutta was once asked to preside over a great conference on hunger in the world; she accepted the condition that all participants would fast for three days before the conference so that she could hear what they were talking about. Well, needless to say, the conference never took place. Today I ask you the same thing. If we want to talk about precarious work, income uncertainty, terror of the future, try once, once in your life, what it means to live as a precarious, to be frightened [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and uncertain, maybe without being able to crown the dream of living with the person you love, because you don't have the certainty that you can pay a house, having the anxiety to put children into the world because you can't afford them, without a guaranteed income, bending your head to job proposals even indecent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what vision do you have of the future? Gentlemen, this decree-law at work we of the 5 Star Movement, reject it with firmness and conviction. It will reduce the worker to an object blackmailed and to be used and will also suffocate the small and medium-sized enterprise that will be sucked up by the huge companies of the international market, which will come, attracted by your job proposals to zero protection. Today the workers see the companies close and advance the relocation of companies with the budgets in assets that increasingly cross national borders to settle abroad and increase profits. Companies that in many cases, after having benefited for decades of contributions and state funding, decide to close the gates in Italy, without politics moving a finger! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Politicians, as in the case of the Minister for Economic Development Federica Guidi or Mr Matteo Colaninno, are often the same who remained indifferent when wild relocation policies were introduced in the companies of their respective families, which left many Italian workers without a job and in total despair. They do not call it relocation, but internationalization of their businesses; you are masters of terminology. It is also the Minister Federica Guidi, who is comfortable in his chair of the Ministry of Via Veneto, to invite the workers of Micron, a company of high-tech excellence, to leave the country. Is this the prospect of economic development and promotion of the work that this Executive wants to implement? Today in Italy inequality explodes; the ten richest have a heritage equivalent to that of 500,000 working families. Are these international standards? From 2001 to the present, twelve times, you have approved downward regulations for workers! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here are now present senators who in 2012 in the name of Europe, accomplices the global financial market, President Napolitano, the Senator for Life Monti and the former Minister Fornero, voted the hated law n. 92 on work, able even to coin the new terminology "exodati". Know that this law we of the 5 Star Movement will sweep it away! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Every two days in Italy a citizen takes his own life for problems related to survival and four companies a day close! With your political choices the excluded become waste and leftovers! At the moment there are 9 million people living below the poverty line, 3.5 million unemployed, 3 million unemployed. You know that this group of citizens consists of those who are depressed, on the margins of society, and that many of them no longer vote: more than 30% of citizens do not vote today and 20% are undecided. The Republican Governor Romney was surprised to say: the poor do not vote for us, we do not care. Admit it openly then: you don't need the poor! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Your 80 euros promised to those who already work is becero marketing studied at the coffee table. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Your political propaganda is based on the theory of desire, sell hope to those who still vote! You take away our right to work indefinitely, but you promise us, who knows when and with the delegation to the government, the work of increasing protection. Please! Have the decency not to abuse the intelligence of Italians. The problem is here and it is now! All over Europe there are forms of income security that if they were applied in Italy, linked to flexibility, they could really restore the internal economy but, above all, politics would finally fulfil its main task, that is to take care of the community! The truth is that money must serve and not govern. We of the 5 Star Movement Group evoke the return to the economy in favor of the human being. But does it take that long to figure it out? Outside, people exhorts us desperately: "Be quick, we can't take it anymore!" We've been bringing their voices here for a year. For them and in their name we ask for an income to raise the real economy of domestic consumption, we ask for an income not to die, we ask for an income of citizenship, dignity, existence... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . We demand a guaranteed minimum wage, right to real work. Gentlemen of the Government, these are international standards! These are our standards! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But it seems like there's no point talking in here. You've already made your arrangements. You won't listen to us. I turn then to the citizens outside who are listening at the moment: "No one is more enslaved than he who considers himself free without being free." So, citizens, decide not to serve anymore and you will be free! Slaves never! [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u77	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the space I have been given after a very passionate speech. But I would like to ask you, Senator Paglini: are you really convinced that only your part has the exclusive protection, that it has the exclusive of the job? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Paglini and Senator Nugnes's comments]] Are you convinced that she has the exclusive of all this? Are you so convinced that you have the exclusive of all this? [[Live comments from Senators Airola and Moronese. Senators Buccarella and Petrocelli show the bill.]] This part has nothing to... [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u79	Senator Nugnes, allow the intervention to take place. FAVERO (PD). We in the Democratic Party and in this part have nothing to...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u80	[[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] You are also uneducated, because I let you speak without interrupting on any occasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u81	Senator Favero, do your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u82	FAVERO (PD). That is my speech, Madam President, because I think... We'll try to give you a guarantee that you can do it. FAVERO (PD). ...that there is not only one part in this Senate. There is not only a part that deals with the workers, we are also in the real life of the workers. [[Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group. Greeting comments from Senator Paglini.]] I think so, I think so. NUGNES (M5S). Eighty euros is a handout! FAVERO (PD). Look in our résumés. Maybe read it once in a while. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u83	Senator Pollini! MORONESE (M5S). But she turned to us! FAVERO (PD). According to the European Commission's spring forecast, an economic recovery is taking place in the Union after the recession exited a year ago. Real GDP growth is expected to be 1.6% in the European Union, 1.2% in the euro area in 2014, with a further improvement in 2015 at 2% and 1.7% respectively. Siim Kallas, vice-president of the European Commission, said that the structural change that is taking place reminds me of the process of profound correction undertaken by the economies of Central and Eastern Europe since the 1990s, with a view to their accession to the European Union, which took place exactly ten years ago. Their experience shows how important it is to adopt structural reforms at an early stage and to maintain the course, regardless of the challenges that can be encountered along the way. With this in mind, we must not reduce our commitment to creating more jobs for European citizens and to strengthening the potential for growth. The strengthening of European labour market conditions started during 2013 should foster employment and a further fall in the unemployment rate to 10.1% in the European Union and 11.4% in the euro area in 2015. In Italy, an increase in real gross domestic product is expected, followed by a shy - it is however a sign - growth of 1% in 2015 and 1.4% in 2016. In the current year, household spending, after three years of reduction, begins to rise by 0.2 percent. This is one more reason for undertaking a structured reform process, in the view of the Democratic Party Group. The Italian employment figures remain alarming: overall unemployment remains at high levels, reaching almost 13%, while youth unemployment for children under 24 exceeds 42%; as you know, in the Mezzogiorno the rate is well over 60%. I think something must be done: something must be done! One of the most alarming phenomena is that of so-called NEETs, that is, people without a job or engaged in the study (the alarm bell is in the school dispersal). We know that it is about 1.3 million from 15 to 24 years old; this figure rises to 2 million, if you understand also the under 29. Precisely in order to take away this multitude of members of the new generations from inactivity, the Government, for example, has prepared the start of the integration and training plan from May 1st - Youth Guarantee - on which national and regional institutions are working to provide an opportunity for those who have not reached 30 years within four months of starting unemployment or leaving the formal education system. This plan includes guidance, support for work, job offering, apprenticeship contracts, traineeships, civil service, and the possibility of self-employment; the total value is over 1.5 billion euros. Are these positive actions going to affect the employment situation of the future? We think they are a start, a start, positive actions. Something is happening, as we see in the measures that are only now bearing fruit. The INPS data records that the incentives of Law No. 92 of 2012 for the recruitment of women and over fifty years without work have taken place: at the end of April, these assumptions have reached more than 34,000 units. It is a first encouraging fact, but there is still much to be done and the measures contained in the measure under consideration will probably give, in a year's time, as Minister Poletti says (and monitoring will be carried out), positive results (we hope so). The bonus for the renovation of the house has created 226,000 direct jobs in 2013; this has led families to a building recovery in their homes and also to an energy saving. These are also forms that facilitate work. I made a necessary premise on the unemployment picture and the measures to counter it precisely to analyze Decree-Law No. 34 of 2014 on the relaunch of employment, on which the Senate is about to pronounce. In Italy, in the wake of the positive international experiences of the Scandinavian countries in the first place, there is a need for a good flexibility of working relationships, rules and sanctions for companies that exploit employees, who do not comply with the rules of their classification, but, at the same time, there is a need to equip themselves with new units; I think, for example, of the seasonal tasks covered, when they actually need them, that is without binding themselves to the assumption sine die that, for so many productive realities, is unsustainable in times of crisis. The decree, after the changes of the commission work of Palazzo Madama, goes precisely in this direction. It was decided, in fact, to impose fines on companies that exceeded the ceiling of 20% of time contracts and compared to the total of those for an indefinite period, circumventing the obligation of recruitment that had been determined in the House. I believe that this is a reasonable compromise, which will lead the entrepreneur to meet the threshold set, partly because the financial penalties are not insignificant: 20% of the salary for the 21st employed in excess and 50% for the 22nd onwards. I feel that it is not with a round of lives to the free choice of companies to proceed to the recruitment that will increase the employment in our country. Unmistakable and respectful standards are needed for the employers on the one hand, and for the workforce on the other. In the measure then, at the request of the rapporteur Ichino, whom I thank for the punctual work done and for the patience with which he followed the whole process, it has been put in black and white that the bill delegates, to complement the jobs act of Matteo Renzi, will contain the contract of work to indefinite increasing protection. It is a challenge: a challenge that we must be ready to take forward, concretely, as soon as possible, in order to modernise the formula by making it more attractive for companies, without affecting the fundamental rights of workers. It cannot be hidden that now the sine die model has become like a mirage, a mirage for our young people. The recent monitoring of the Fornero law reveals, in fact, that, in the second quarter of 2013, the contracts of indefinite duration activated for women and men have fallen by a lot and that the new generations are almost completely excluded, since only one in ten signings fixed-term between the under 24. On the contrary, the idea that needs to be pursued is to give back a chance of modern stabilisation to young people, whose guarantees will rise over time, and to allow the business world, even in times of economic crisis, to equip itself with personnel with a labour cost that must not be more prohibitive; above all, we must give the altar to that proliferation of atypical forms characterized by bad flexibility that do not allow any young person to imagine a future in which to maintain himself dignifiedly. Finally, I have a request. I would ask the government not to neglect the labour market which concerns the employment of disabled people, of disabled civilians. I have submitted a question to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, calculating that 25% of the posts they are required to receive do not appear to be allocated in the public and private sector. Here, it is precisely this type of people who, even more than others, are currently experiencing the crisis. Just for these people, as well as for all the young people... president. Senator Favero, I invite you to conclude. FAVERO (PD). ...and for all those who have been severely penalized by the continuing economic and employment crisis that affects our country, I am convinced that Parliament and the Government will be able to face the new challenges that require a commitment, as already demonstrated in this measure under discussion, and can really be a flywheel of growth and recovery for our country. Long live Italy!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u84	[[Applause from the PD Group]] PETROCELLI (M5S). Come on Italy and don't live Italy! LUCIDES (M5S). Come on, Italy! [[Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u85	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u86	Madam President, in recent months the Civic Choice Group in the House and the Senate has worked hard to get the Italian labour market out of the 20th century, abandoning casts and taboos that have contributed to raising unemployment and widening the gap between demand and supply. What has been produced in these days of intensive work in the Commission is a very important result, even if not without some strong tensions. The parties of the majority managed to regain the original inspiration of the decree-law on labour, balancing its content and closely linking it to the perspectives of organic reform, which will take place with the simplified labor code and the introduction of the permanent employment contract to increasing protections. It should be stressed the crucial role that our Group has played in this difficult step for the Government to stimulate the parliamentary majority with greater courage and consistency on the road to job reform. The contribution of Civic Choice is well perceptible both in the political-programmatic tone that the preamble gives to the whole measure, which comes directly from our first amendment, and in various technical improvements that are found in every part of the decree in terms of both the discipline of the term contract and that of the apprenticeship and, above all, in the very incisive modifications on the sanctioning apparatus, which mark a turning point in our labour law. The first of the amendments to the decree-law on work agreed between the majority parties explicitly connects this legislative intervention with the more organic one contained in the draft law delegation, which will consist of a simplified labor code containing the forecast of the contract to indefinite time to increasing protection, which many now also in the trade union and the Democratic Party are doing their own. This confirms the commitment of the Government and the majority to a reform of labour law which will have as its central chapter the free experimentation of a work relationship characterized by a protection of stability, which gradually increases with the seniority of service and, at the same time, by a technique of protection of the economic and professional security of the person working. It will no longer be based on the cast of the employment relationship, but on robust universal income support and effective market assistance for all those moving from one job to another. It will no longer be defending the worker from the labour market, but in the labour market. This preamble in the decree constitutes the official announcement, for our labour law, of the passage, as I said before, from the twentieth to the twenty-first century, with fifteen years of delay, as unfortunately is customary in the reforms of the work in our country. We're finally getting there. I would like to leave out the things that could also be said about the other amendments that we have tabled. In general, this type of measure, although only a first step, goes in the right direction. On the subject of the somewhat controversial debate in this House, I do not believe that this measure creates new slavery. True slavery is staying at home; it is having no chance of working; true slavery for an entrepreneur is not being able to hire a person who would like to hire because the costs are too high. These are the real slavery we have to fight. We know that labour laws are not decisive in this; however, as Enzo Biagi also said, work has much more to do with a rule made up of a thousand economic incentives. I think the work done is important. It is a step that - I hope - the Senate will continue to take. Majority and opposition, beyond the theater that we sometimes do in this House, have been engaged at a positive moment in the legislative activity of this Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u87	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, the measure under consideration in this House has a particularly evocative name such as that of re-launching employment, almost as if starting from the shared assumption that without adequate measures to overcome the labour market limits you cannot hope for a recovery for the country. This is undoubtedly a certainty. The only doubt that remains is to understand whether the ways in which this ambition is to be transformed into law are adequate. Surely the measure wants to be ambitious, although it continues to maintain its fragmented structure in perennial expectation of a single text. In recent years, we must admit, no progress has been made so incisively or, at least, today it has been intended to immediately find a point of connection and sharing that would avoid well-known institutional pantani that have accompanied the chaotic previous measures. Certainly the measure has been accompanied by a series of polemics both on the parliamentary side and on the trade union side, but - I must admit - the teamwork carried out in the Commission in the last few hours is undoubtedly the most eloquent response to the aforementioned polemics. The agreement between the majority forces and the mutual listening of minority forces has certainly been a source of improvements and appropriate corrections to the text dismissed by the House. Indeed, the point of view on the labour market seems to have evolved: the need for growth and the potential of enterprises are put in the foreground, leaving aside the useless demagogies that do not correspond to the reality that normally characterize the decrees of this type. But at this point we should ask ourselves: has everything been done or in the name of mediation preferred to leave many truly reformative proposals on the corner? We continue to speak of this decree as a "cut-off precariousness" but in fact precariousness remains a decisive element of the current configuration of the labour market and let us not deceive ourselves that with the much-awaited reform we can change the situation more than much. Certainly the priority remains to sanction speculative developments on the part of employers and to protect the atypical worker with all possible instruments - and I stress all possible instruments. We know, however, that the problem is not always behind this situation. One of the doubts, in the light of the recent changes in the Commission, is that some sanctions applied to employers, in breach of the permissible threshold of so-called precarious contracts, could have the opposite effect, i.e. an increase in the contraction and supply of labour. But it is equally understandable that, according to the current scenarios that require immediate solutions, the reformist ambition must be realized by step and the government's back-up on some proposals such as that of the permanent contract with increasing protection is the compelling proof of this. This is an important aspect. It is impossible to scratch with sudden news regulations a system now consolidated in which there is a confused discipline in a scenario of general economic crisis. Over the past few hours, the data issued by the European Commission in its spring economic forecasts with regard to Italy's employment values must make us think. During 2014 there was a new increase in Italian unemployment, around 12.8% compared to 12.6 in February. We cannot overlook this trend that puts us once again as the taillight of the Eurozone. This fact invites us to reflect. In addition to the well-known economic crisis that in fact unites the entire European scenario, what prevents our country from achieving at least the recently achieved goals of the other member states of the community? Probably the difficulty of not being able to adapt to the evolution of the labour market, obstinating to pursue an unattainable mirage such as that of the indeterminate time, very often inapplicable to the current working scenarios, with the showy consequence of reducing the improvements to protect the flexibility, understood as opportunity and not as condemnation. Flexibility is something other than insecurity. The spread of so-called atypical contracts depends on a multiplicity of factors; macroeconomic factors of global reflection and a consequent evolution of the regulatory framework. It goes without saying that the individual companies operating in this changing scenario are led to use various types of contract depending on the production objectives and forecasts of market developments. If we do not start from these premises, it is difficult to find solutions that really meet the needs of civil society. Let us try to put a spotlight on those who are the recipients of these measures. Beyond young people, among whom unemployment levels have now reached 42%, there is a large proportion of over 40-50 workers who are completely left on the margins of labour market possibilities. It is to the demands of these new cases that we must look to find suitable legislation. Today, in fact, there has been an intervention on the work that already exists, or that there will be - flexible or not - not on how to facilitate its creation by means of simplification measures. But from this point of view, I think it is interesting to see one aspect highlighted in Article 1, as reworded by the Commission's work. The measures under consideration have been defined in the light of the adoption of a single simplified text of the framework for working relations with the experimental forecast of the permanent contract with increasing protection. This means that the real reformist thrust - to which I referred earlier - should only be achieved at that stage. So today's are just some interesting general evidence of the true reform of the labour market, to which the other two measures that we should deal with in the near future would be associated and which involve further interventions on this side: from the delegation of work to the omnibus decree known as IRPEF which, among the various simplification measures, also renews some aspects of the labour discipline. We know that regulatory fragmentation is not particularly good in delicate and complex regulatory environments such as work, but we realize that the extraordinary nature of the current economic situation also requires regulatory initiatives, pending better times and conditions. The time has come to adapt the instruments of protection, simplification and incentive to what is the current scenario, without pretending to model phantom regulatory reforms to desirable but not real scenarios. We call the problem by name: rapid flexibility of the labour market without adaptation of the protection system such as social shock absorbers and without a discipline of monitoring and control by the public authority. This is the condition from which to start to reason on feasible and sustainable correction assumptions This must be accompanied by a de-taxation of work, which encourages companies to hire, possibly even younger staff who are currently left out of the labour market. The path is certainly long and articulated and we are sure that at the competent Commissions - in the next operating steps - there are the conditions to be able to reason on shared and feasible hypotheses. We believe in the potential of this Executive and this majority, who have demonstrated in these hours that they know and can work in a common improvemental perspective, actively involving those minority forces that, without demagogy, intend to participate actively in the reform of discipline. We want these to be the basis for the actual changes that will take place in the coming weeks. We want courage, mediation, yes, but with ambition and shared foresight, otherwise we can forget to abandon that disastrous 12.8% unemployment waved by the European Commission in recent days. [[Applause from the Roman senators and Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u90	Madam President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, in speaking on behalf of the Group for the Independents-PSI-MAIE, I would like to start from three percentages: 12.7%, 42.7%, 9%. The first two figures (12.7 percent and 42.7 percent) relate to overall and youth unemployment in our country, the third is the gross domestic product that Italy lost during the years of the crisis; a figure, the latter, which has only one precedent and dates back to the years leading up to the First World War. These figures, better than anything else, represent the framework in which we in this House, the whole of politics and the institutions of all order and degree, are operating. An area in which, at times, it is anger, an anger that we have the task of transforming into hope, giving an answer to the mother question of all the questions: to fight hard against unemployment, to make sure that, especially our young people, they can see their future no longer as a horizon of uncertainty, threat and fear. I represent a territory that, like many others, warns and suffers the difficulties of the crisis; a territory in which strategic sectors such as tourism and agriculture, but also crafts, require an increasing flexibility on the ground of bureaucratic and regulatory simplification, as on that of seasonal recruitment, because flexibility is inherent in these economic sectors, is the necessary prerequisite to ensure that these sectors continue to exist and to be competitive. And then the measure that we are here today to discuss, and I hope to approve, must only be a first anticipation of what will have to be a genuine reform of the work. The aim - as the rapporteur has rightly said - is to achieve as much flexibility as possible with the greatest possible degree of safety. It is a first response to the need to loosen the many excessive bureaucratic constraints that make recruitment difficult and which inflict on the world of work. Our goal is to create jobs and not simply defend fixed work or, in any case, job security. Today, on the contrary, we must at all costs facilitate and not hinder the encounter between supply and demand. In the name of this spirit, we had tabled amendments on agriculture which were then transformed into an agenda (first signatory, Mr Berger, who worked in the Commission on behalf of our Group) and which takes up an essential point for us on the possibility of hiring, on the part of agricultural companies, with the form of occasional work of an ancillary type, not only pensioners and students, but all those who are willing to provide the labour for short periods, extending - in addition - the use of so-called vouchers for all businesses regardless of their turnover. Of course, we hope that the government will make a clear commitment in this direction, and we will also return the proposal to the related agriculture. It is not a question of avoiding permanent employment; instead, it is a question of facilitating the maximum use of casual labour for short and well-defined periods which meet unpredictable needs linked to seasonality, such as agricultural crops. We must realise that the promptness of work and, consequently, the quality of the product are at stake. This also applies, and in particular, to the tourism sector where, in the face of the sick day of an employee, it is necessary to have the opportunity to replace him, in order to satisfy an increasingly demanding clientele and thus maintain the standard of the service offered. I also hope that the 20% limit introduced for fixed-term contracts will be used with common sense, trying to understand when it is a necessity or when it is a penalising escamotage for workers. Just as I ask the government to make clear on the bodies that are responsible for control, because often they are different bodies to carry out controls at the same time: whether they are the INPS, the Labour Offices, the Finance Guard and, sometimes, even the INAIL, the controls must certainly be carried out, when necessary, but let us ensure that they are coordinated and that they do not overlap unnecessarily, causing the exasperation of businesses, especially the smaller ones. But I would like to highlight one positive aspect of this measure, which is particularly close to my heart and which I see as one of the new elements. I have repeatedly had the opportunity to reiterate this in this House and it has also been taken up with conviction by President Renzi in more than one of his speeches. It is a question of investing more in the training of the world of work, in making school education complementary to work practice. The model is undoubtedly that of the dual school-work system typical of the German world and I am particularly pleased that the Commission has accepted Mr Berger's amendments which have led in this direction. On the basis of dual training/apprenticeship, it is important that standards have been produced which better define this instrument and open up seasonal contracts to the whole labour market, but it is important that it become a strategic element in the future. The data, published just these days, are disarming and tell us that about 90 percent of the young people who have resorted to it after the Fornero reform, come from the Province of Bolzano. This instrument must be simplified. Companies and young people must live it as a possibility and not as an empty norm. It is necessary to have more courage and conviction, for this reason I believe it is important to extend this instrument also to children who attend the last two years of school in experimental sections, reaching up to 35% of the hours of lessons to be taught in the company and with hours outside school hours, with a contract that can continue even at the end of the school. Just as it is good that standard that allows research institutes to cross the 20 percent ceiling for researchers' future recruitment, thus adapting to international standards. In short, we believe that this measure is in the right direction. It is a measure of substance, which takes up some issues and which, included in the overall scheme of the interventions of this Government in favour of the work and purchasing power of the families, is particularly positive for us. The hope, however, is that we do not cradle or settle. The way forward, the knots to be dissolved, the decisions to be made are still many. He said an important columnist, last night on television, that this is a Government of reforms when what matters most to Italians is economic recovery. I believe that, instead, the great ambition must be precisely this: to hold together reforms and recovery, to make sure that they have the same weight and the same importance on the scale of priority of the majority and the Executive, because only in this way can Italy really start again, finally becoming a country that believes in itself. A country that puts aside anger and resignation to meet hope and a season of growth and new trust. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u91	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u92	Madam President, I think it is also clear from this decree-law how it is in the pre-election phase, because indeed the attack that is carried by the forces of the right and the Movement 5 Stars justifies very little, looking at the Italian reality and trying to identify the elements of this measure, which is not the jobs act. It is better to say, that it is not the jobs act, because we continue to speak as if we were building the bill that will have to prepare the framework of the new system of work for Italy. It's not like that. We are building the pre-jobs act, in the sense that with a decree, in speed, we try to implement the attention to the occupation, of which there is extreme need in this country. Through this decree, we intend to provoke a shock in the system of work in Italy, and I think we are succeeding, thanks to the joint work of the forces of majority, that - it is not a coincidence - they did not want to represent, through amendments, some forcing or contestation, that could also be represented on this decree-law, with this repenting and verifying how today there is an impressive need to give a signal to the outside, to the enterprises of this country and to the unemployed, to the unemployed and to the underemployed, who are a huge plethora. There are now 10-12 million people who do not have an occupation in this country that provides for them a present and a future. Looking at the photograph of the country in which we are intervening with this decree-law, I want to represent some data to show how meaningful is what we are trying to do. As the rapporteur also said, in 2013 permanent recruitment on the total flow of contracts decreased to 16.5%. This is the photograph of a country that could not be more precarious than this, since 83.5% of workers are engaged under atypical contracts, fixed-term contracts of different nature, with the time limit, which becomes a cleaver for the worker, of maximum 12 months. On the one hand and on the other, we have been accused of providing for contracts that are too blocked because we have provided for a maximum of five extensions (eight first) and because we wanted to apply the rule that provides for a civil sanction in the event that the time contract has been concluded in excess of the 20% limit of the company's staff. This means that we have actually wanted to widen the strings of the stock exchange and tell companies that they must have confidence in the present and future of this country and hire workers for 36 months trying to look ahead and think that (as Europe asks us, moreover) the normality of the employment contract should be that of long and medium-term. This is because it is the interest of the companies and the worker to conclude a contract with the intention of working together for a long time. This has value for the employee, who becomes more and more capable and able to know the mechanisms of the enterprise, but also for the latter, because he can rely on a competent, capable and reliable staff, who knows the work and develops skills and manual skills. But at the same time we have also received criticism from those who want to believe and make us believe that this decree will not actually affect the employment crisis we are experiencing. I would like to remind them that this text contains some important and innovative elements, including the reduction of bureaucracy for businesses, which will not have to justify, for each individual recruitment, the same employee, even in the course of an extension, the reasons for this, which had to be detailed in writing before. We wanted to make it clear to companies that we believe that they do not play - and we know that they do not play - with the interest of the worker, but that they will have every intention of extending these employment contracts and of ensuring that that employee temporarily hired can become a permanent employee tomorrow. So we did not want to increase the level of bureaucracy. But in the decree there is also much more, there are important elements of innovation such as the administrative sanction that is applied in the event that the term contract has been concluded in excess of the 20% limit of the company's staff for fixed-term recruitment, thus making its work cost more. It is a signal that we want to give, which testifies that we are for a permanent employment contract with increasing protections that finally weighs more in this country, as happens in all the civil countries, in the West and in our Europe, the project work and fixed-term work than the indeterminate one. But this decree says even more if we can read its substance. It says, for example, that we want to favour - and we are promoting in a systemic way - a phenomenon that was born with the Electrolux case and that is a significant and not temporary fact that we take home: I am referring to solidarity contracts, which then, translated, means a time reduction that the worker accepts and - I say - that in some cases the worker can ask for, and that can also be significant for a reduction in the cost of labour. For example, we know that teleworking and part-time work are irrelevant to other countries of the European West in Italy, and so I wonder why not start to activate a logic and reasoning that sees the company interested in employing people even for four, six or seven hours a day, without necessarily reaching the eight hours, increasing the audience of workers. I want to remind you that we are a country with 22,800,000 employed out of more than 60 million inhabitants: so only one out of three inhabitants is occupied. We need to take care of things, and there will be no policies that they want to support the welfare of the future if we do not create employment. So I see in this decree, in some embryonic way, in this pre-jobs act, those elements that will characterize the system of employment and the work of the future, which we will identify together. I think there is a great deal of urgency to convert this decree into law: we do it and we want to do it as quickly as possible, because we realize that 93% of companies have fewer than 15 employees (ours is still, to a large extent, an entrepreneurial reality of small and micro-enterprises), but that there are 6 million workers concentrated in the remaining 7%. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). So there is a mass of workers, higher than that of small businesses and micro-enterprises, who are interested in this decree, and so we think and we want to believe in the system that we have developed, although it is not perfect and in some aspects lacking. Finally, I would like to mention a significant request from the rapporteur, Senator Ichino, to write the laws in a simplified way. It is true that we are doing a very beautiful and positive thing, preliminary to a later act, which will be decisive in order to succeed in increasing employment in this country, but perhaps we could have written the legislation even better and make it immediately readable for our entrepreneurs and our workers, that is for those who today expect a lot and for whom we are really thinking, in any way, how to resolve the situation that has been created in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u93	We greet the students of the Secondary School of First Degree \ Umberto Fraccacreta Â Â of Bari, who are visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u94	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a measure which contains urgent provisions to promote the revival of employment, but which has absolutely nothing to do with recovery. This is an urgent decree-law by this Government, which does not give answers to the unemployed, because it is limited to small corrections to the serious mistakes made by the same majority today asking for its approval. We have always considered that flexibility creates employment, especially in an economic context such as the current one, characterised by a sharp contraction in the supply of employment, with an economic recovery that is struggling to restart and with unsustainable taxation for businesses. The devastating figures released yesterday by the European Union confirm our arguments. Unemployment in Italy is constantly increasing: it will peak at 12.8% and the youth unemployment rate is over 42%. This decree is a farce that puts nothing in place to give positive impetus to the market. These figures confirm that the problem is no longer the fixed place or the precarious place, but the job tout court. We regard as a weak signal the increase from 12 to 36 months of the term of the contract, providing for the possibility of extending the contract several times, and the abolition of the obligation by employers with at least 10 employees to continue working at the end of the apprenticeship period by at least 50%, before hiring new apprentices. The dematerialisation of the DURC to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises is quite positive. Interventions, these, acceptable but insufficient, not incisive to get the country out of the employment stalemate. The work plan, launched by the Letta Government, and these corrections are not sufficient to correct the damage caused by the Fornero reform. We are amazed at how the 5 Star Movement defends this obnoxious so-called Fornero law. In this measure, once again, there is a stronghold of the left on ideological positions in the field of employment and employment contracts which have now been overcome. We are at a historic stage in which we have to go the best way to provide the unemployed with an income from work and put companies in a position to make that offer. We can only be disappointed by the measure, disapproving of the use of the decree of urgency only for the types of contract and not also for what today represents the main obstacle to the resumption of the labour market and the revival of employment, that is, the cost of labour too high. Employment is created mainly by businesses and employers in general, not only by contractual types; therefore, we are strongly convinced that interventions on the flexibility of contracts, as a means of increasing access to employment, must necessarily be accompanied by fiscal and contributory incentives for companies. The only way to boost the economy is to make our businesses competitive; creating new jobs and reducing taxes on both the company and the worker would result in higher net wages and fewer burdens on companies. Without business support, no new jobs are created. If the intent of the decree was to reactivate the labour market in the short to medium term, then the same would have had to contain interventions of de-taxation and decontribution. This, at least, would have been expected by an urgent measure aimed at boosting employment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The ISTAT data are dramatic, but useful to discover the disasters caused in the world of work by the technical and left governments (Monti, Letta and Renzi), which will be remembered in history for having brought, with their measures in the field of work and pensions, youth unemployment over 42 percent (historical record) and having created the social emergency of exodus. Fornero's pension reform has turned out to be more destructive than anticipated, leaving hundreds of people without any income coverage, and blocking the generational shift in the world of work. Our country does not need small corrective measures, such as jobs act (which actually seems more like the name of a video game), but strong interventions, which include both the repeal of pension reform Fornero and a drastic cut in the tax wedge. Only the cancellation of the Fornero law, through the referendum proposed by us, would give a boost to employment, especially youth employment, since this reform has effectively blocked the generational shift in the labour market. I don't understand why, instead of distorting data, talking enthusiastically about reality, when people don't have work and don't know how to keep their families, the government doesn't make any sense. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u96	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u97	Madam President, we are talking about the real life of citizens and workers, and the conditions under which we do so humiliate them, because I see that the majority is almost completely absent. You are approving an old, very old measure - I will prove it to you in the course of the explanation of vote - and, from my point of view, unconstitutional, which will end up condemning our citizens to a lifelong precariousness. It is a measure that will not only bring no benefit to the employment situation in our country, but will even make it worse. It is as if the last fifteen or twenty years had not been enough to understand that indiscriminate flexibility degrades the quality of work and even of businesses, and condemns this country. Yet history should have taught you something. You have managed to do even worse. After taking away the dignity of our citizens and our workers, you have also considered taking away the possibility, in the event of any wrong, of resorting to justice. You're fabulous. These days we have witnessed a farce-talking discussion in the Commissions. There was first the urgent decree (obviously to certain powers it was necessary to deliver the gift they had been waiting for years, from the new one who is in a hurry), and then, there was the armor of the decree itself, and with this it was denied to the opposition any possibility of intervening effectively for a possible improvement of this disaster, that you have the courage to call a decree. It is also true that amending such a mess is impossible, but we are really trying to table common sense amendments (they tell me that they say so, of common sense, but then I would like to understand where common sense is) to a decree that of common sense does not have any. However, everything has been scientifically rejected. I'm making an example of common sense. My Group has tabled an amendment to increase the resources of solidarity contracts, a proposal that could give real answers to workers, given the tragic situation they are in, and not be the usual mockery of giving aspirin to a serious patient. Once again, however, zero answers. I have to tell the truth: while I know the anti-worker policies of so many senators present in the Commission, I have literally got the chills, and also a little anger, to hear workers define a stock or missionaries. The rapporteur said that if a worker is lucky enough to switch from a precarious contract to an indefinite contract, it is as if he had won the lottery. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to remind everyone in this House that worthy work is provided for in our Constitution, but we often forget about it. As I have heard from Senator Sacconi and other senators, it is true that unemployment in Italy has risen dramatically by 6.5 percent, which means more than one million fewer jobs. But forget to say, dear majority and dear senators, that from 2008 to today practically the majority has been the same. You should at least feel responsible for this and, instead, always place responsibility on others: I find this really unheard of. I think there should be a real examination of this problem in this House, but unfortunately, once again, I do not see any trace of it. The jobs act? I don't know what it is, and I don't think even those in government know it! It seems yet another mysterious object which, I fear, produces nothing good (...). Redistributing work is the main way forward, and job creation requires investing mainly in innovation and research. Don't worry, these are not my words: they are words of Pierre Carniti, a moderate who made the union. A moderate and not a left-wing extremist tells you that. A moderate tells you this, but everything slips on you like everything's normal. Senator Favero, a few memories wouldn't hurt in this House. He used a phrase that belongs to former Minister Fornero. He said that this reform would remove the bad flexibility and introduce the new one: the same words that Minister Fornero said two years ago. It takes a lot of courage! It's crazy. I think Senator Ichino and Senator Sacconi don't seem to be able to do what they couldn't do with their official governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They will be able to do so now that, officially or unofficially, there is no government. As Senator De Petris, leader of the Misto-SEL Group, has already said, it is the dream of Senator Ichino. Yes, it is: it is a pity that for the citizens, for the workers a nightmare will materialize from which they will never come out. This is a reform made by senators who have never seen a day of real work. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u98	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u99	Madam President, I would like to address my colleagues and the Government with a few thoughts on the decree-law we are debating today. The first concerns what moves this decree-law and the policies that the Government and Parliament in recent months try to implement, that is, the necessity, the priority, to create new work. This requirement, which is sacrosanct and which represents a priority, a necessity, comes not only from one or more laws, it comes not only from the ability to technically identify some formulas, but is the result of a number of factors that I believe should be kept in mind and that in these months with difficulties both the previous Led Government and the current one have sought in a strong way. I am referring to the attempt to strengthen the fragile growth that is taking place with concrete measures that prolong domestic demand (so much mistreated 80 euros have this meaning); to support investment, as was mentioned (ecobonus, in general, but also the reduction of IRAP); to the structural reduction of the tax and contributory wedge. We know that this does not happen miraculously in one day, but with consistent measures that go together to give, in the end, this result. This is done by considering the resources available and the time needed to find the necessary covers. The second most important factor is to recreate a prospect of confidence in economic operators, businesses and families. I believe that this is a subject to be deepened, because I often hear about it in an almost paradoxical, ambivalent way. The company is rightly considered worthy of support when it comes to reducing taxation, when it comes to the possibility, for example, of favouring small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is considered an enemy from which to defend itself when it is assumed that flexibility rules are introduced in the workplace. I believe that when the enterprise is carried out correctly and in a serious way, when it respects - as it is right that it is - the rules of work and contribution is a resource for this country that must be put at the center of a program of restarting and strengthening of growth. The third element (and we come to the decree-law in question) is important to intervene in terms of simplifying recruitment procedures, the so-called contractual forms that in recent years have created, in a contradictory way, sometimes elements of uncertainty, elements of viscousness and difficulties at work. In these days, among the many, a book has come out written by an attentive observer of the labour market with a significant title: I forbid to take it. It is clear that if the rules become miserable, difficult, the problems are not solved for recruitment but become complicated. On these three factors is the government's policy, and I believe that, in particular, with this measure, it acts on the subject, which is very difficult to compose, of the relationship between labour policies, between flexibility and stability. The aim of this measure is explicit, without hiding it, in my opinion, in a very serious way, to regulate flexibility by directing it towards solid forms of working relationship. Today, in Italy, flexibility is made up of a wide range of forms of work, many of which are part of an absolutely negative concept, especially for those who have to do this work, i.e. for employees. I think, as other senators have also mentioned, of fake VAT matches, of forms of participating associates, of traineeships that are often repeated in an absolutely illegal way. This decree makes another choice: that of channeling, at a time when confidence in recovery and also in the possibility of greater growth, flexibility towards more solid forms is still to be formed. I recall in this House that, among flexible contracts, the fixed-term contract is certainly the most stable contractual and salary contract: it is a full contribution contract, which is crucial for young people today, which, as we know, will have a contributory pension system. Then, addressing flexibility in this direction, through the simplification provided for in the measure, is an important fact. Apprenticeship also has the same characteristic: it is a full contribution contract, regulated in contract terms in a very precise way, which includes a training method that adds skills and allows you to have a more regular working life. This decree does this, and it also adds the solidarity contract as an important element that allows the maintenance of jobs. It is certainly a first act. If possible, I would also like to make those who have spoken in very broad terms of new slavery, using these words in excessive and misleading terms, especially thinking of the value they have had in the history of great suffering for millions of people. Then, the ability to deal with problems, in this difficult phase of the world of work, must not let us give in to drift. This measure regulates flexibility and - as we know - represents the first part of a broader intervention, called jobs act. In reality, it has the ambition to build, within a policy of growth and trust, also a policy of work consistent with a country that wants to start again. As you know, these measures are already being examined by the Senate (they are contained in a bill of delegation, not in a book of dreams) and can be approved, if we want to do so, even in a short time, in a few weeks, thus becoming legislative decrees and composing a complete picture. It is expected that this intervention will be completed, as regards both the reorganization of contractual forms that are strongly directed towards the contract of inclusion, as it is said, to increasing safeguards, and also to complete these policies throughout that very delicate phase of the relationship between social shock absorbers, which must also be extended to those who today cannot dispose of them, and the active labour policies to quickly re-employ those who lose their jobs and young people to their first employment, including through the project "Youth Guarantee". So we must read it this way, and above all Parliament - the Senate in this case - must be able to interpret this stage and do what is needed now, in the immediate future: to ensure that those engaged in flexible contracts are engaged in more protective and sound contracts, as I have already said. On the other hand, we must quickly complete the path - let us define it in this way - of both economic and labour policy, with measures that can intervene on contractual forms, on social shock absorbers and also on the subject of re-employment policies (the relocation contract, as we often say, is now a real necessity for many workers). We therefore need to make sure that we come up with a positive path that gives the possibility of cultivating, in non-abstract but concrete terms, the possibility of still believing that we can restart and rebuild and give young people, workers and the unemployed the concrete possibility of having a greater hope in the future. The decree means this: it is a first stage of a commitment that must continue and must see the whole of Parliament committed not to demolishing but to building. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u101	Madam President, kind senators and senators, Decree-Law No 34 of 2014, the subject of today's examination, is a fundamental element in the context of the political and economic choices made by the current Government. It is, first of all, one of the essential pillars of the jobs act, the plan on work to which the Government itself attaches a primary importance to companies and to the recovery of employment, together with the law of delegation in the field of reform of social shock absorbers, labour services and active policies, as well as in the matter of reorganization of labour relations and support for motherhood and the reconciliation of working and living times, which embraces, from a system perspective, even broader areas, and whose examination has already begun in recent days in the Commission of the Senate. I would like to remind you here that Decree-Law No 34 came to our examination after the House of Deputies had approved it, at the end of a long process which had changed its original text in several points, in some cases, and in any case, it has become more cumbersome or, in any case, it has made its effectiveness more uncomfortable. On the other hand, I believe that the original spirit, albeit with some corrective measures, must be supported, because, in my opinion, it is intended to give new impetus to the world of work and that the validity of the measure, although limited to certain profiles, cannot be called into question. The Group of the New Right Centre is therefore of the opinion that the choices constituting the fundamental structure of the measure adopted by the Commission are acceptable, even if they are aware of their limited scope of action in relation to the more comprehensive and structural needs that the world of work and businesses needs. Moreover, the Commission will be responsible for these structural needs during the examination of the draft delegation law, the examination of which - as I said before - has already been incardinated and, on which the Commission has already agreed to promote the widest comparison with the organisations representing the categories concerned and with experts in the field. On the other hand, with regard to the measure being converted, the Commission considered that the changes introduced in the parliamentary passage to the Chamber of Deputies deserved an adequate and in-depth assessment, both to verify the effects of the original choices and to assess their overall consistency with the more general structural design contained in the draft delegation law. This examination revealed the need for further changes within the Commission, aimed at restoring the driving force behind the original text and also at encouraging new prospects and initiatives to be taken by employers, in an economic context characterised by strong international competition, with which the business and labour world cannot fail to face up. In this sense, in an economic season marked by continuous changes, fluidity and uncertainty, it appears necessary to refer to labour legislation that can be consistent and in step with a season destined to continue over time, with the due awareness that the use of rigid regulations, far from being presumed as a guarantee for the weakest, both workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, can rather be a source of economic contraction and, therefore, are ultimately unsuitable for the creation of new jobs. The examination in the Commission has developed, despite the diversity of their positions, in a spirit of fruitful and constructive cooperation, also thanks to the balanced and wise mediation carried out by President Sacconi and the openings of the rapporteur Ichino and the representative of the Government. This has enabled the adoption of acts of direction and proposals for amendments, some of which have been proposed by the same opposition, which in our opinion take on and give further positive impetus to the spirit of the original text, encouraging employers to take new initiatives and opening up new favourable prospects both for apprenticeships and traineeships of a formative nature, and for the return to the market of unemployed workers. For these reasons, I would like to express my strong appreciation for the proposals accepted by the Commission, at the end of an intense and tiring process, but never a hard one, which the rapporteur has already outlined. I believe that, with these changes, the Decree-Law can and effectively contribute to a general view of boosting employment in a difficult economic context, in which recent employment data are still of concern. I therefore hope that the decree can reach, in the fastest times, the definitive conversion into law. This positive view of me, in addition to being right in the amendments that the Commission welcomes, is based on the further issues that have emerged during the debate and the positive debate that has developed. These issues, even if they have not been able to find translations in the text under consideration today, of a deliberately preceptive nature, may be the subject of reflection and consideration in relation to future regulatory commitments relating to the sector, starting from the debate on the draft law delegation. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u102	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u103	Madam President, our country has always been at the forefront of work organisation, handing down and socialising work. Italy is the country of shops, where arts and crafts were handed down by masters to students, where thanks to the continuous search for functionality and beauty it was easy to find credit. We were good enough to structure the lenders too: the good banks - the commercial ones I mean - we invented them. This reform is not about research, innovation, increasing the number of patents. Yes, gentlemen, this was the country where the highest number of patents were produced in the world. Well, in this reform we do not reward those who innovate or invest, and we do not intervene in an appropriate and convincing way even in the grotesque management of accreditations, which allow a plethora of training companies to receive funding to provide courses and pseudocourses from contents too often inadequate because they are outside the context and the real needs of a rapidly changing and demanding world of work. Where's the school, in the decree? The school-work combination is inseparable to develop new ideas and invest in the future. Without school, training, innovation, investment, simplification and guarantees there can be no work, no growth, no exit from the crisis. We need to train workers and, more importantly, entrepreneurs by networking and investing in human resources. Why do universities compete abroad for the number of Nobel prizes while ours compete for a number of occupants placed on the boards of directors? We are building a world in which entrepreneurs have their wings cut, workers have noose around their necks and only foundations, i.e. lobbying, have free hands, free to name without merit. The school is the fairest social elevator in existence. Well, our school is reduced to a minimum, school dispersal is very high, we have the lowest number of graduates in OECD, and I avoid dealing with quality speech, because the few graduates we supply are unfortunately neither educated nor less trained. In the Middle Ages, before approaching art or profession, it was necessary to know the art of the crossroads and the quadrivio. But today this horizon is missing. You've never seen so much inadequacy. In fact, it is well known that quality is invested and sought only for the long-term prospects. And we sail on sight today. At this rate, we'll talk about day-to-day work, so far. Ahi serve Italy, of hostel pain, ship without knuckle in great storm, not woman of provinces, but brothel! How present and sadly true this verse is! To overcome this sleep of reason, work must be brought back to Article 41 of the Constitution. To remain a unique country of its kind, appreciated and copied, we must continue to be leaders of beauty, goodness and functionality. We must generate envy, not pity. Any reform cannot ignore the intrinsic content of the work and the dignity that belongs to it. Work is not only a duty, it is not only a right, but a value, such as culture, experience, family, spirit of service, honesty, homeland. Missing values. Yes, yes, our references today are the European technocrats who also value values but, unfortunately for us, only those accounting. Only by returning to that driving force of our best history that set as its goal the best possible, only by reviewing the entire welfare system and above all through a strategic, economic, energy, industrial plan, only by truly simplifying the legislation through a single clear text, will unemployment, the citizens' discomfort and the rampant degradation of the country be dealt with in a rational and decisive way. Only in this way will we be able to reverse the waves of migration, preventing our excellences from escaping and curbing the influx of desperate people to whom we can guarantee nothing today, neither hospitality nor work. We have transformed "Etna valley " into a camp for desperate people, but the valleys of despair, the valleys of tears are spread throughout Italy. We forgot Mattei's school: we exported our know-how in exchange for extraction rights. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask you to conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm asking you for the kindness to keep me going for a second. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, yeah. One minute. FUCKSIA (M5S). Thank you. We forgot Olivetti's lesson. Our know-how is crucial. The structural processes of production change so quickly that what we do today will no longer do anything in four or five years' time. Therefore, the question of upgrading capacity is not a luxury, an extravagance, but an urgent social need that the State must guarantee. Our future, the future of the community: not only of those who are guaranteed but also of all others, of the varied world of the "without thirteenth". This has a cost, but it is also an important investment. The uncertainty about the future is inversely proportional to consumption. The important thing is to insist on welfare, on changing welfare. It is not so much the precariousness that is frightening but the world, the context in which the precarious worker is inserted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, the time at your disposal is abundantly over. FUCKSIA (M5S). So I'm done, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u104	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u105	Madam President, government representatives, fellow senators, unemployment is a scourge that is destroying our country, from North to South: companies forced to send home experienced collaborators who can no longer pay; young graduates and qualified professionals without any career prospects. According to the latest ISTAT data, despite this measure, the unemployment rate will deteriorate in 2014, reaching 12.7%, to suffer a slight decrease (by 0.3 and 0.4 per cent) in 2015 and 2016 respectively, but remaining still above the two figures and, above all, to 12%. There is a deep distrust of the possibility of a change that represents the starting point of a real recovery that offers new opportunities. It is sacrosanct to defend the work, as the Constitution itself reminds us in Article 4, according to which the Republic recognizes to all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions that make this right effective. However, this is not the case for our young people. Young people are paying for the consequences of this crisis, victims not only of the lack of work but also of the total closure of an old system. It is necessary to change. One cannot think of continuing to read the reality with the lenses of the twentieth century and considering the work and the enterprise as non interdependent subjects, one cannot think that the work is created without the enterprises and that the well-being of one is not linked to that of the other. It is true that we must do things quickly, but above all, I believe that we must do well and that is why I am sorry today for a missed opportunity. The decree-law before this House was to be an opportunity to change, an injection of confidence for entrepreneurs and workers, but the pressure of the trade unions and a certain left pushed towards a timid and unfinished text that, despite the commitment of Forza Italia in the Commission, could not be improved even because of a truly closed attitude by the majority. Europe too has understood that if we are to achieve real employment growth, we need to focus on medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises. That is why I had tabled a number of amendments aimed at safeguarding and supporting these very people, eliminating additional burdens and obligations on them and facilitating greater flexibility in working relationships, amendments which, of course, have not been accepted, with my deep bitterness. But there's no more time! The article that flows at the end of this iter not only worsens the text of the decree Poletti, but renders vain and uncertain that breath of confidence manifested at the time of the announcement of the decree. Yes, because of announcements and slogans, this government has suffered us since its debut, except for having not yet undertaken concrete actions for the economic growth of the country. Among the eight amendments accepted by the Government in the Commission, which partially rewrite the amendments approved by the House at first reading, an administrative penalty was introduced for companies that exceed the 20% ceiling of fixed-term contracts. We in Forza Italia are opposed to the 20% limit and, even more, hostile to unnecessary and harmful sanctions. As planned, the latter are affecting employers and do not bring any benefit to workers but, on the contrary, create more litigation by increasing precisely the uncertainty which was intended to eliminate, in the name of simplification, for businesses. On the contrary, I am sure, after the rejection in the Commission of the main amendment that Forza Italia has tabled, that the decree will create even more uncertainty and endless disputes. Finally, during the examination, the Government understood how important research is, excluding public and private research bodies from the 20% ceiling. In addition, contracts may have a duration equal to that of the project to which they relate. However, as we at Forza Italia had already proposed, in addition to public and private bodies, companies investing in technological innovation had to be excluded. In the field of apprenticeship, we have repeatedly stressed the need to return to the original text of the decree which provided for the employer's right to use public training or not. With this text, however, you risk having less apprentices and less professionalism to spend on the market. I just want to remind you that the rise in unemployment began after the fall of the Berlusconi government; in 2011, in fact, it was 8.8%, almost four points less than today. Three governments of presidential nomination have brought it to the sad current percentages. If the Renzi Government, instead of making electoral promotion, had used the 10 billion euros for the tax relief and contribution of new jobs, some 500,000 new jobs could have been created, i.e. an embarrassment to youth unemployment between 15 and 29 years of age. Instead, he decided to assign them to the loyalty of his constituents. In order to create work, structural manoeuvres are needed, such as the introduction of a rule exempting employers from the payment of social security and social security contributions for five years who employ long-term unemployed and unemployed workers, as proposed by President Berlusconi. To get to a true job reform needed more courage. It was necessary to model the large European and Anglo-Saxon labour markets, where mobility is not a taboo and where the theme of protection is given by higher wages and salaries, also due to a less oppressive tax wedge, capable of acting alone as social shock absorbers. Germany, for example, has given a boost to the labour market since 2003... You have to finish, Senator Galimberti. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). ...with the four Hartz laws in which the password was "flexible." I shall conclude, Madam President. I am convinced that the jobs act, even if evaluated in its overall form together with the rules included in the draft delegation law, will be the cause of increasing difficulties for young people in finding a job and will not allow companies to easily get out of the crisis. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u106	She is registered to speak Senator Ghedini Rita. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we come from a very long debate today in this House and in the Commission on a text which has also been discussed a long time in the House, where it has seen important changes, and which here in the Senate has brought into question some need for clarification and improvement of interventions and, above all, has required a better choice of the most effective instruments to give fluidity and effectiveness to the whole of the rules governing certain employment contracts. I say this explicitly, without too much infinity: a debate that is far too broad and heated for a limited intervention, as much as is necessary at this stage and necessary to adapt an instrumentation, which, although already wide, often too wide and articulated, must take into account the current conditions of a labour market marked by a dramatic lack of demand. Let's start here. The point on which we can all agree, I believe, is that there is no reform of the labour regulation instruments that can replace other measures that are essential to create demand, to increase labour demand. And these measures, as is quite evident, cannot all be in the same decree. Today I have heard here several times that in order to be effective this decree would have had to contain something else: and so on I listened to a long list of speeches. Now, interventions have been made, and this government is doing so. The last, under discussion here in the Senate, is an important intervention of tax redistribution and I am referring to the IRPEF bonus, which opens in the necessary direction of greater equity: and how much we need it have reminded us of CENSIS data just these days. Just as public investment and support for private investment are necessary and the government has also taken steps in this direction: here again in the Senate - I regret to have to remember, because we all know - we are debating the so-called Home Plan, which goes exactly in the direction of bringing work, allowing to open yards that will mean immediate employment. Thus the intervention on the fluidity of the credit to the enterprises and the payment of the debts of the public administration goes in this direction. We're doing things in the right direction, we're doing them a little bit at a time, taking account of reality data. Today, in this debate, the need to keep to the real conditions of workers has often been called for. That's right. However, I believe that in order to do this we must stick, in the debate and in proposing solutions, even to the real conditions of the country, if not we are propaganda. I would like to say a few things about the nature of the interventions contained in the decree. They have been done on this in-depth disamine, but they have also said absolutely conflicting things, sometimes in the same intervention or by the Group itself. The decree deals with term contracts and apprenticeships and some other simplifications. I shall make a few calls on these matters. The decree reiterates, in anticipation, what has already been affirmed by the regulatory interventions of recent years in the matter of contracts, that is that the contract of employment for an indefinite period constitutes the common form of employment relationship. This statement makes it consistent both with our Constitution, with previous legislation and with Community law: it is not true that the decree violates Community legislation, neither with respect to its general conditions nor with respect to the provisions on time contracts, of which it assumes two of the three indications to be chosen. The decree therefore gives a clear indication of the future interventions of the legislator, which also here, in the text voted in the Commission, undertakes to address immediately the discussion on contractual forms to increasing safeguards that have the nature of the contract for an indefinite period. It is therefore a precise indication for our work in the coming weeks: delegation is not a chimera, it is a draft law on which the discussion in the Commission has already begun working in the Senate and it is up to us to carry out this discussion in detailed and timely terms, making the changes we think are useful. It is also a clear indication for employers' choices and it is also a clear indication for the case-law guidelines. Many things have been said about the term contract. I would remind you that, among the various forms of contract to which a term is attached, the fixed-term contract is the most protective form: it has the same guarantees as the fixed-term contract with regard to wages and related institutions, contributory treatment, sickness insurance and unemployment. This year the treatment of so-called ASPI begins: we will have the opportunity to see if it is sufficiently covering and possibly, precisely in the delegation, to modify it. Finally, the intervention on apprenticeships, which is and remains the instrument dedicated to entering the world of work and which, unfortunately, so far, has marginally affected the real dynamics of access to work. Therefore, before putting so much emphasis on the changes that have been made, let us remember that, despite the significant incentives, it is still, unfortunately, a marginal instrument and that any element of facilitation that can make it the prevailing form to get young people into the world of work must be facilitated and welcomed. Throughout the management of the measure we have moved on to the balance... president. Senator Ghedini, you have to finish. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Give me a minute, if you can. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, one minute. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I was saying, we have moved on to the difficult balance between recruitment facilitation and abuse prevention tools. We cannot fail to note that a compromise has been reached on this, which can be improved and which must be seen in the evolutionary sense that I have tried to point out and which we will have to take with the next speeches. I would just like to express one hope: that, compared to the debate that we are closing here today, what we are going to do about the delegation law can take place with a much lower rate of ideology than the one with which we have dealt with this measure. I hope in a contribution of ideas and that we all call, for the reasons of adherence to the material conditions of work that we always remember, to the responsibility that leads us to affirm the truth in a context that takes into account the conditions given and the intellectual honesty to which we cannot escape. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u108	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u111	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Group of the North League asks you the courtesy of being an interpreter to President Grasso of the request for an answer, which we have been asking for for a long time and which unfortunately does not come from the Government, on a serious and serious problem that gripes the country and that concerns a fundamental and strategic infrastructure for Italy, included also in the objective law, that is the so-called variant of pass, which unfortunately will not see the light. This is our strong concern, and it is not ours alone. We have asked questions and we have even done a question time, but the Minister has not been able to answer them. We therefore call for the President to interpret this concern of ours, which is not only of the North League, because it concerns an infrastructure that connects the entire national territory, which is strategic for the development and the socio-economic future of the whole country, but on which we have no response. We have also asked the President of the Commission, Senator Matteoli, to initiate a procedure within our Commission, also in order to ascertain the responsibilities: there are responsibilities that we have stressed and documented several times. But now it seems to us that the situation is deteriorating. We have asked for answers, because even in the national media this very serious problem has been highlighted several times, and last but not least, it is a work that has been contracted for 420 million euros and that, only of reserves, has more than 500 million euros. This means that a work that should have cost just over EUR 400 million will cost almost EUR 1 billion. President Lanzillotta, we trust that you will interpret this request with President Grasso, so that you can finally urge the Government to give an answer to question 4-0119, which we consider fundamental not for us, but for the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u112	I will certainly do so, and I am sure that President Grasso will insist with the Government that the answer be given.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u115	Mr Manassero (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, I would like to make it clear to the House that in the night between Saturday and Sunday the windows and the entrance of the provincial seat of the Democratic Party of Cuneo have been smashed with seven slashes and vandalized insignia with written claims relating to the events of Turin on 1 May. Since the beginning of the year there have been ten vandal actions against the headquarters of the Piedmont Democratic Party and unfortunately the one against the headquarters of the provincial federation of Cuneo, although recent, is not the last because in the following night the same treatment was reserved for another Turin club. It is an untenable aggression, which I cannot think of as an expression of dissent or even the practice of antagonism, but of hooliganism and delinquency. And not because it is directed against us, but because it is intended to intimidate - unnecessarily, I stress from these benches - and to prevent normal democratic dialogue. I was there on Sunday morning and it was really painful to see that that place where the Cuneans are used to meeting to discuss policies and administration and parliamentarians and regional and municipal councillors encounter citizens and their problems. It is worrying the idea, as well as in some environment it is manifested and silently claimed, that the one against the headquarters of the PD is "violence returned" against the State, because it fights with the rule of law and democracy of our country. Mine is a democratic city: I do not want to fall here in rhetoric, but remember with you that Cuneo is the city of Duccio Galimberti and that there was born the Resistance, just with the historic speech that Duccio made on July 26, 1943, from the balcony of his house, on the square that today bears his name. On our mountains have written important pages of our recent history and have been written by many, they have all been: monarchists, liberals, Catholics, anarchists, socialists, communists and shareholders, women and men, all together against fascism. The fruit of that struggle are today the Republic and the Constitution: this is so that today everyone can freely express their idea and the deepest and hardest criticism. I am sure that the city of Cuneo and the political forces that are inspired by our democratic tradition will be able to react to this violence, which is likely to grow thanks to the silence and tolerance of too many: instead they serve the awareness and condemnation of all democratic forces. Even in this House, we cannot help feeling involved and we must strongly reject any attempt to intimidate, because we must defend democracy, which is the practice of dialogue and civil confrontation, not the violent claim of its own true or presumed reasons. I should like to end by thanking the law enforcement authorities and our employees for their timely work under difficult conditions, and to this Parliament and the relevant bodies, we are asking them to monitor these violent, increasingly worrying drifts and to draw a very heavy and potentially dangerous climate and scenario. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u118	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, from 7 to 24 May the fishermen of the marineries from La Spezia to Livorno will have to undergo a forced stop to work, imposed by the NATO exercises, that will mainly interest the mirror of sea between Marina di Carrara and Viareggio, where the ships will leave some shapes, that they will then have to be identified and collected. The stop to the fishing came suddenly, to the precision 2 May, with an order of the Harbour office of Viareggio. The fishermen of Viareggio and Marina di Carrara will not even enjoy the possibility to go out to the sea from 22 to 5 in the morning, as colleagues from Livorno can do, perhaps also to prevent the shapes from being collected by the nets of the fishermen. FLAI-CGIL has rightly highlighted the absurdity of a communication reached to fishermen a handful of days before the arrest was taken. A damage, that caused by the exercises NATO (15 military ships and a submarine), that not only will bring to its knees two marinerie, but that it will have heavy reflections also on all the activity of catering of the Apuo-Versilia coast. Fishing is an activity already heavily penalized by a farraginosa legislation, by the very high costs of fuel, by the situation of the harbour infrastructures; if you put also the military exercises you really pass the limit. I therefore recommend, Madam President, that you report this absurd situation to the relevant ministries, to whom I reserve the right to submit an urgent question if there is not a very rapid solution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u121	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to something scandalous that we had already announced would happen. Do you remember secondary solid fuels? I am talking about that mixture which is the fuel fraction of municipal waste and the non-dangerous industrial waste that you have decided to do because the European Community has given us the opportunity to requalify certain classes of waste. We told you that the danger was that the European directives did not allow this system to be used in a general way, but merely in a marginal way. You, on the other hand, screwed up and said that this would never happen, have paved the way for thermoelectric power plants to become waste incinerators. By chance, in Brindisi Nord (Brindisi, a site of national interest, is a city very heavily polluted) the Oedipower, which has a coal plant that has stopped since December 23 because it is no longer in condition to be economically advantageous, what has it invented? To ask to burn, together with coal, the secondary solid fuels: plastic, paper and other filth. In fact, Edipower is a division of the A2A, which is a company that makes incinerators, among other things, such as those of Acerra or Brescia. Well, the A2A didn't dare to ask to make an incinerator in Brindisi, because they would have razed them to the ground, and then they invented to make a waste treatment plant for the purpose of producing secondary solid fuel to be burned, casually, in the power plant that constitutes the spin-off of their society. With this, a thermal power plant has become an incinerator. So when former Minister Orlando came here saying that they wouldn't make new incinerators, he lied: he simply changed the plate "incinerator" to "central thermoelectric." From now on, any power plant in Italy that is at a loss will be able, with a small adjustment, to use the secondary solid fuel; each coal power station will be able to do so. All this we had said, you denied and now it happened. Now we want to see how you are going to tell the citizens of North Brindisi what is going on; in Brindisi where pollution has reached crazy levels and again, after coal, also the secondary solid fuel: a plastic concoction, paper and other heterogeneous materials. Go tell him if you have the courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u122	As already communicated to the Groups informally, the Minister of Education, University and Research, for concomitant institutional commitments, will not be able to participate in the question time scheduled for the afternoon session of 8 May next. The session will therefore be dedicated to the ordinary development of the inspection union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-241.ana.u124	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 7 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.03 p.m.
