ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand that you are asking for the vote without making any comments. Is that right, Senator Barani? Barani (GAL). Yes, Mr. President. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 12.07 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 948, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft law of initiative of the deputies Burtone and others, Vendola and others, Francesco Sanna and others, Micillo and others, 200, 688, 887 and 957. We welcome Senator Calderoli, who has brilliantly overcome convalescence and is here with us. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u11	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I have already explained, this amendment was formulated by me with a view to obtaining from the Government and the rapporteur a request for reformulation, in the sense that I had focused my attention on the subjective quality of the interlocutor, because otherwise, as you teach me, we must consider that, on the basis of the jurisprudence, also of the Court of Cassation, it has sometimes been stated that the mere fact of participating is not such as to constitute the crime of political-mafia exchange. That is why I call for the rapporteur and the government to take charge of this because not specifying it means a reduction in the fight against organised crime and in the desire to strike at the wrong political phenomena that can be determined by the political-mafia exchange.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u14	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the same subject at all times to stress that the anti-mafia code contains a provision which is limited to Article 416-b in so far as it prohibits the use in the electoral campaign of persons subject to prevention measures. In this case the anti-mafia code, therefore a provision that occupies a position that we could define as the main one in the fight against organised crime, when the problem arises of the criminality of the politician who has used a subject subject subject to measure of prevention, requires that the politician is certain of the definitive submission to measure of prevention of the subject that he uses in a context of electoral campaign. For this reason, I would stress the fact that the proposed amendment already has a precise legal substance in the text - we might say elite - aimed at combating organised crime. And this certainty of awareness achieves a fair balancing point between the criminality needs of those who take advantage, and therefore is aware of a subject subject subject to prevent to carry out political propaganda, and the right need to protect those who might be unaware of the subjective qualification of the person used. I believe that this requirement does not diminish the fight against organised crime: it takes note of a category of subjects that the press itself and public opinion qualify as unsuspectable subjects, therefore subjects of which no one is aware as to their criminal militancy, allows a just punishable, but it subtracts, especially for the phase of preliminary investigations - i.e. when an adequate probative threshold is not required - not to sacrifice subjects that we can in effect consider innocent people. For this reason, I believe that the text of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code should be brought into line with the current provision in this matter, since Article 76 (8) of the Anti-Mafia Code is the rule that will be applied, whenever the agreement between a politician and a mobster is not paid with the provision of money, other benefits or other benefits. This demonstrates the perfect symmetry between Article 416-b, which will be adopted, and the above-mentioned paragraph 8 of Article 76. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u17	Barani (GAL). Mr President, as this amendment is also being discussed at my signature, I will take up what Senators D'Ascola and Caliendo have just said, but with a small addition, to remember that we had made a commitment here, when you wanted to postpone the vote on the amendments to this morning. In many speeches from the Senate Chamber, also in order to express solidarity with his person, it was committed that the text to be fired on such an important subject should be widely shared. This was the commitment that the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, had made, as well as some group leaders, including Senator Zanda, the PD leader, whose speech we heard. On the other hand, it seems to me that this morning the positions are always quite rigid, and I hope that on a subject of this kind the sharing will be concrete, because no one wants to give a gift to the mafia, let alone put the first medal of the class; however, no one can afford to risk the freedom of honest citizens who present themselves to the electoral body to be their representatives and to give in the hands of certain politicized PMs those famous two zeros, which - just to remembrance 007 - give them the license to kill politically whoever they want. Senator D'Ascola, with great elegance (as Senator Caliendo also did) spoke of raising the bar with an adverb that - I remember, because repetitious iuvant, as the Latins said - the colleagues of the Chamber had unanimously inserted and voted (the 503 Members present in the Chamber, of all the groups existing in the Chamber of Deputies, voted, I repeat, unanimously). In this House, we have heard someone talking about a painful step backwards from the other branch of Parliament: of course, it was an incomprehensible - or rather, understandable - step backwards, and that is why I call on the rapporteur and the group leaders to consider whether unanimity can be found on an adverb. I am referring to that adverb that has already been unanimously wanted by our colleagues in the House and that we know instead that we are not wanted, criticized by people who live and live together with the mafia and who want to dominate the country, trying to put their opponents and their enemies in jail. I invite you to reflect on what we are doing today because it can of course affect all of us. But is it possible that if I woo a voter in the election campaign, I should ask her for the family tree? In fact, if I may go to dinner with this player and she has a relative on whom there are suspicions of mafia, just for going to dinner, because I also had the benefit of after dinner, I should go to jail. Are you kidding me? Look, ladies and gentlemen, one who speaks to you about health care: any medication does not cure the disease; any law does not cure the mafia, because the side effects can be more harmful than the effect we want to achieve by administering the drug. This rule will have the side effect of bringing democracy to death; in fact, there are mobsters and there are pm connected to the mob, which are mafias too. So we have to doubt, be careful what we do and above all we have to create a shared law, because the fight against the mob is not a struggle of the first of the class, but it must be of the whole country. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the electoral agreement reached by two important leaders of our country goes in this direction, because it is precisely the preferences that lead to the criticality and that give the possibility to the magistrates, to the politicalized assault pm and to many of these mafias to be able to choose who will have to govern Italy, as they have done for twenty years to this side. We hope that sooner or later democracy will be established again in this country and that the responsibilities of the judges will all emerge and that everyone will pay for the mistakes made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u18	We greet the pupils of the secondary school of first grade Dino Compagni in Florence, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u21	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement will vote against this amendment. I would like to explain briefly the reasons for this by reconstructing the path that has led us in this House to assess the substance of the measure. Someone said that there was not enough discussion in the Commission. That's not true. The measure has been on the Commission's agenda for more than six months. This is a long-discussed measure, both in the deliberating and in the referent. Twice the deadline for tabling amendments has been opened and reopened in the Commission. Finally, if not enough, it was voted by an overwhelming majority by the Senate Justice Commission, with the votes in favour, as well as by the 5 Star Movement, including SEL, the For the Autonomies Group, the League, the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre: it was virtually voted by the entire Chamber, with the exception of three members of the Justice Commission. This measure was adopted in the Commission almost unanimously. It has, of course, received the favourable opinions of the rapporteur and the government in the Commission. Despite all this, we saw last week, in general debate, the most incredible and absurd of requests, namely to bring this measure back to the Commission. This is a request made by those who do not have the sense of shame. It comes from that same political area which in the Commission has supported and obtained exactly the opposite, that is to say, that the decision-making body should be destroyed in order to allow for a wider and more open debate on this measure in this House. In the Commission we call for debate in this House, and then in this House we call for debate in the Commission: it is a sad form of obstruction to waste time, there is no doubt about it. But let us ask ourselves: why do we obstruct a measure which seeks to shed light on the unconfessible and obscure relations between the mafia and politics and which should instead be approved immediately by unanimity? Who is concerned in this House that the relationship between the mafia and politics can be clarified? We know that a strong starting point for dealing with this measure has also come from civil society and the campaign "Restarting the future" to which more than 250,000 citizens have joined. The appeal of Reparte the future has even been signed by many parliamentarians of this Republic, some of whom are now obstructing that same measure, thus demonstrating a great consistency with themselves! Unfortunately, most of the proposed amendments limit the effectiveness of the measure, the emptiness of its contents, the powerlessness, the nullification of it, making it difficult if not impossible to implement. In the war between the mafia and a certain collusion politics we cannot afford hesitations, hesitations, instrumental positions: either we stand with the mafia or with the antimafia. The signal that Parliament must send to the organized underworld and to the collusive politicians must be clear and without half-measures, a clear contrast to any hypothesis of political-mafia electoral exchange, without whether or not! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u23	I have the floor for a few minutes, as your colleague has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u24	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this is a measure that citizens are calling for loudly, so turning back means not doing the common good, not doing the good of the citizens. To amend the text that has come to us from the House or to dilute Parliament's time to issue this provision simply means to help the Mafia and, as we have loudly shouted in this House at the previous sitting, we absolutely want the Mafia to leave every institution: outside the Mafia from the State! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u27	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote, unless the rapporteur or the representative of the Government submits a rewording of the amendment. I would ask that only the first part of Amendment 1.5 be voted, until the words "subjective quality" are put to the vote, and then continue in accordance with the amendment adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u28	Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, how can we vote for separate parts for an incomplete period, where the main proposition is missing? I do not think this can be done theoretically; however, we hear the opinion of this House. I understand the meaning of your request, but... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to replace the word 'anyone' in the Commission's text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then it is a change in the amendment rather than a split vote. Would you like to repeat the proposal to amend the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u29	I propose to replace the word: "Everyone" of the text approved by the Commission, with the words of amendment 1.5 from "Anyone who accepts it up to "subjective quality" and then maintains the text approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u30	I still have not made clear the reworded text of amendment 1.5. I hope that the offices in charge have made this clear. I would ask you to write it down and resubmit it. As you say, it is not clear and I think that the House should understand the amendment that it votes on. So either Amendment 1.5 is voted as it is, or it tells us what other amendment it wants to table and writes it down. As the deadline of twenty minutes has elapsed since the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, we can proceed with the votes. Senator Caliendo, do you withdraw Amendment 1.5, or do we vote for it?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u31	Mr President, I have rewritten Amendment 1.5 and I shall now read it. Replace the words "Anyone who accepts" by the following: "Anyone who accepts from those who participate in associations of the mafia type, in any way called, with the awareness of subjective quality" (then the text continues as already defined).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u32	Senator Caliendo, I would ask you to send the text of amendment 1.5 to the Presidency as reworded. We must, however, first vote on amendment 1.6 because it is entirely a substitute for the article, unless it changes that too. I would remind you that these amendments are all linked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u33	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.6 because it is an invitation to the Government and the rapporteur to take on a clear need, which is to have a precise definition: you are a teacher of the fact that in the fight against the Mafia the clarity of the rules is not productive of positive effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u34	We are also trying to find clarity on your amendments. If the text is clear, I would ask the rapporteur to give his opinion on the rewording of Amendment 1.5, otherwise we are waiting for it to be drafted in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u35	Mr President, for the moment the text is not clear to me either.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u38	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, as you advised me last week, I continue to study the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. But I miss something... President. I'm going on with the study, too. Montevecchi (M5S). I would like to ask you, on the basis of which Rule of the Senate Rules, to withdraw an amendment in this House and reformulate it. I would ask you, please, to point out to me the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which allows a senator to do this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u39	Senator Montevecchi, while you finish understanding how to include the amendment in the article, I say to you that withdrawing the amendment and proposing another amendment is also equivalent - which has been done - to amending it. The problem is to proceed to the next opinion of the rapporteur and the government. We certainly know very well that the rule is not written in the Rules of Procedure, but it is clear that withdrawing the amendment and submitting another amendment is, in any case, an amendment. That's my interpretation. It is a new amendment, basically. Montevecchi (M5S). So are we officially saying in this House that there is a practice that allows any political force to withdraw an amendment and reformulate it? I repeat that to make it clear to all of us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If we've given this interpretation, be sure we'll give it to you for all such cases. Montevecchi (M5S). Very well, we have established the practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u42	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to see if I have understood correctly. Is Senator Caliendo's proposal therefore interpreted as rewording amendment 1.6?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u43	No, in particular Senator Caliendo withdrew amendment 1.6 and reworded amendment 1.5. Therefore, we have a rewording, subject to the withdrawal of amendment 1.6. We are trying to understand how the amendment fits into the text submitted for our approval. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Are we still talking about a reformulation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am reading the amendment and we are distributing it. A moment of attention, Senator Caliendo, is a delicate moment. Replace the words "Anyone who accepts" by the following: "Anyone who accepts from those who participate in associations of the mafia type, in any way called, with the awareness of subjective quality" (then continues: "with the promise to obtain vows"). Therefore, in Article 416-b, as it was dismissed by the Commission, in place of the two initial words "Anyone who accepts" would include this new text: "Anyone who accepts from those who participate in associations of the mafia type, in any way called, with the awareness of subjective quality." I think that's clear. [[Senator Palma points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u44	I asked to speak, Mr President. It's no use pretending not to see me!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u47	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, regardless of the practice, which I do not think I can agree with, because the amendment is essentially a new amendment, and it does not seem to me that in this House a senator, after the deadline for tabling the amendments, may present another amendment, but the amendment in question, which I signed and modified by Senator Caliendo, at the time it is amended, what is the end of it? Was it withdrawn? I'd like to understand. As a signatory to the original amendment, I could still keep it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u48	It is clear that Senator Caliendo has withdrawn an amendment signed by others as well. Therefore, if the other signatories insist and maintain the amendment, they can say so. The Senators Falanga, Cardiello, Sciascia, Alberti Casellati and Barani, therefore, will have to say whether they agree with Senator Caliendo in the withdrawal or if they maintain the amendment that, at that point, will be put to the vote. Senator Cardiello picks it up. Just one. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm not taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then, Senator Caliendo, let us proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u51	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking for a clarification. You are now about to put to the vote the amendment reworded by Senator Caliendo in its entirety or only with reference to the initial sentence If you were to put to the vote only the first part (- > Anyone who accepts ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ ‐ PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 1,101 and 1,103 are withdrawn. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let me remind you that on Amendment No 1,102 both the rapporteur and the Government had returned to this House. So, having said that, I would ask you to put the amendment as a whole to the vote in order to avoid the preclusive effect of Amendments Nos 1,101 and 1,102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The preclusive effect is if it is approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). If it's approved, there's foreclosure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it is not approved, the others can be voted on. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). No, it depends on how you put it to the vote. If you put the first part to the vote ('Replace the words: 'Anyone who accepts' (') and this is rejected, all the amendments starting with 'Replace the words 'Anyone who accepts' (') would be precluded... Mr President, it is your problem: the Presidency is yours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u52	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.5 and its rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u53	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u56	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to have the final clarification on the rewording, or transfiguration, or transubstantiation of amendment 1.6. I understand that, having kept the signature of Senator Falanga on Amendment 1.6, it continues to live and will therefore be put to the vote. Senator Caliendo's rewording would appear to be in fact posing a new amendment, if we understood correctly. We want to invite the Presidency to consider whether we can agree to this, which, if it were to become the practice, we could accept it. However, this will mean that every senator among the proposers will be free to introduce new amendments in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u57	One thing is clear: every senator is free to handle his own amendment and, in fact, manages it separately from the other signatories. That's clear. Secondly, it is not in fact a new amendment which would be incorporated, with all the procedures that follow, including the possibility of sub-embodiment. This is a transformation which, as it runs counter to other amendments, provides for approval or withdrawal and therefore runs counter to other amendments. So that is the position of the Presidency. In this way we respect the will of the senator who wants to vote in one direction or another. The proposal is that and the consequences will be those resulting from Senator Caliendo's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u60	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, what number does the amendment reworded by Senator Caliendo take?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u61	In the meantime, we are voting on Amendment 1.5, which has been retained by some of the authors. I would also like to know whether the authors of amendment 1.6 maintain or withdraw it. Senator Cardiello has already expressed his support for the retreat, as has Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u64	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Buccarella has asked what number the amendment 1.5 modified by Senator Caliendo takes if the same amendment is maintained by the other authors. If Senator Caliendo's changes are possible, however, regardless of my intention to maintain the amendment, well, if my intention to maintain the amendment in any way compromises Senator Caliendo's will to modify it, of course, I also withdraw it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u65	It is clear to me that once we have voted on Amendment 1.5 and Senator Caliendo maintains his proposal for reformulation, it becomes a sub-amendment. On Amendment 1.6, even if it is the responsibility of the first signatory, perhaps someone intends to maintain it, in line with the maintenance of Amendment 1.5. Let's hear their opinion, too. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). It was a bit complicated for me to understand the issue of the sub-amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). At this point, however, having understood it, I too withdraw Amendment 1.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does it also withdraw amendment 1.6? FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your cooperation, because we are in a difficult phase to unravel.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u68	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am trying to understand why the Group was wondering how things were going. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you can see, there are changes in the race: those who maintain and those who withdraw. VOLPI (LN-Aut). The two amendments are therefore withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So we are told by the senators presenters, who are the domains of the amendments. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Other senators, however, are equally dominating, and they are the ones who, in this case, could take on board the amendments withdrawn by their colleagues. How does this fit in with Senator Caliendo's intervention in case we make our own the amendment withdrawn by my colleague? In fact, Senator Caliendo has made a proposal, and I would also like to make one, so that perhaps we can proceed, President. If the proposed amendment were appreciated by the rapporteurs or by the Government, I think that this appreciation would allow the original amendment to be reworded on the basis of a proposal for an amendment that could be made by the rapporteur. In this way, such a confused situation could be avoided. What do you advise me to do? Do I accept the Senator's amendment that he no longer intends to maintain it and allow someone else to modify it, or in this case are we able to take some time to submit a possible sub-amendment to an amendment that no longer exists? I tried to gather ideas, but honestly, I'm confused.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u69	According to the Presidency's interpretation, this is a rewording of an amendment that has already been tabled, which, as opposed to the amendment that was to be voted on, provides for the withdrawal of amendment 1.5 and amendment 1.6. It is therefore a rewording that does not completely turn the whole procedure on. That is what the Presidency means, and then the House has the power to speak on the matter and to cooperate. The interpretation, however, is that this is a rewording that provides, as it is contrary to the amendments that are in the willingness of the senator who has submitted them, also the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u72	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, what has been said so far is not very logical. Let me explain: when an amendment is withdrawn, it is dead, and therefore cannot be reworded, as it no longer exists. If, however, an amendment is withdrawn and it is accepted that it be reworded, and a third person adopts that amendment in turn, we suddenly have a new amendment tabled in this House. This opens up the possibility of tabling an infinite number of amendments: as long as you agree, one person withdraws it, another adopts it, who withdraws the rewording and the amendments become two, then three, four or five. I'd like to know if that's what we're saying. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In relation to the sub-amendment, are we saying that it is possible to sub-empt an amendment tabled by anyone who is not Government and rapporteur? Because this seemed to me to mean: I would like a clarification. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u73	What I'm putting to the vote is the reformulation of Senator Caliendo, which provides for withdrawal. I repeat, however, that from two amendments one is made, so there is no overstatement of amendments, but there is a rewording that, since it is contrary to other amendments already tabled, requires withdrawal consistently. If we voted on the reworded text, then perhaps the next vote would also be foreclosed. It seems to me that this is the spirit in which we are dealing with this step, without wishing to create - it is clear - a practice that upsets the regime of tabling amendments in this House. Senator Caliendo, thank you for putting us in a position to study the Rules of Procedure well and seek solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u74	Mr President, this is a problem of the Rules of Procedure. I had initially asked for a split vote, only that it should be written first, instead of replacing the article """ "Replace the words: "Anyone who accepts""" "Replace the article." This is the rewording. It is therefore necessary to reformulate, because the split vote, if it were permissible without that wording, would then become a more normal thing, but the Rules of Procedure require us to reword an amendment in order to arrive at the split vote. That is why I gave up the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u75	We can therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u78	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, allow me just for a moment to anticipate the difficulty, often, of getting the floor in this House. I think that at least one person could be asked to check the requests for intervention (but this is an old issue in this House, if you will allow me). Having said that, I would like to declare our vote in favour of the amendment as reworded, because this amendment, as Senator D'Ascola has just pointed out, proposes the node before which we interrupted our work last Thursday, the element, that is, of the awareness of the one who entered into an agreement with the gangster of the subjective condition of these. This element of awareness was present in the text of the House: so we are not discussing a subject that has not already been addressed. In the Commission, it was considered that the adverb was exceeded consciously. The amendments, including the one that we are about to vote on, put it forward in clearer terms, in the sense that awareness refers precisely to the subjective condition of the interlocutor. Why, I wonder, does the Government reject this clarification, which has been considered by some to be ultroneal, but by no one was contested (at most it was considered ultroneal)? Why does one insist on not wanting to acknowledge the usefulness of a full explanation of the element of awareness on the part of the one who makes this evil covenant? I believe that the concerns expressed several times by Mr D'Ascola and referring to the dangers which can arise during the investigations in terms of reckless restrictions on freedom, or even merely the destruction of the image of a person who is then considered unaware but who has in the meantime paid irreversible prices, as has often been the case. This is an element for us directly in relation to the possibility of a final vote on the measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u81	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u82	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.5 (text 2) tabled by Senator Caliendo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. Amendment 1.6 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.13, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Ruvolo, which is essentially the same as amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Ruvolo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15 tabled by Senator Ruvolo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,100 tabled by Senator Albertini. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. Amendment 1,101 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u85	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 1,101 and request the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Susta, which was subsequently withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senator Sacconi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u88	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to add the signature to Amendment 1,102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Susta, do you agree? Sunta (SPI). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u91	Barani (GAL). Mr President, on this amendment, to which I would like to add the signature, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have returned to the House. This is the last amendment in which it is possible to have a vote on the measure shared by most of the House. In particular, I would like to address the rapporteur, who up to now was - or is - I do not know - socialist culture and is now acting as a troika which has never been seen before. In all these amendments we wanted to specify and make visible to everyone the expression "anyone" and not leave it generic. "Everyone who was aware, " "whoever was counted. We have not left the word "anyone" to the free judicial interpretation of PMs. We wanted to give this expression a space of reasonable certainty that the person knew, because one cannot condemn one who does not know: one must condemn one who knows what he is doing. For this reason, I am asking the House - indeed - for a whisper of guarantee on this amendment by Mr Susta, which I believe is the lowest common denominator in order to give this House the possibility of not defining itself in terms of pro-mafia and pro-justicilists, of not jeopardising the safety of those who participate in a democratic vote and bringing their ideas to any place; that it must not have the concern to know, a priori, that at a meeting with 1,000 people there could be one who is judged unfit and who can, therefore, compromise the legal, economic, social and working integrity of those who are constitutionally present at the elections. The constituent Fathers would turn in the grave.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u94	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to recapitulate the situation for my fellow Members. The Chamber of Deputies, unanimously, sent us a text where the expression "consciously" was present, and prosecutor Caselli publicly praised the text, saying that the House's is a great step forward in the fight against the Mafia. I think D.A. Caselli is one who knows how to fight the mob. Here in the Senate, on the other hand, the term "consciously" disappears, and perhaps, to those who do not know by right but look at parliamentary work, the first thing that comes to mind is that, if the term "consciously" is removed, obviously one can be incriminated even if he does it unknowingly. No, it is not: it is learned that, on the basis of a whole series of references to the code to other articles, for those who obtain the promise of vote even by a person who is not a mobster, but who will obtain the votes in a mafia way, the mechanism for which the promise is linked to the method of obtaining the votes is triggered. So, in the meantime, maybe I'll arrest you and put you in jail, and then you'll come and explain to me the reasons why you trusted that person even if he was the president of an association and even if the promise of vote in exchange for what politics considers absolutely legitimate and lawful, that is, interventions in favour of a certain category, is not called into question. I read here, the last time, a background article on the first page of the evening Corriere, signed by Angelo Panebianco, which said the following. Warning for anyone who comes to the elections (where at municipal, regional and, perhaps, national level there will be the preference) with this legislation: prepare the suitcases to go to prison - candidates, prepare the suitcase to go to prison - because with the legislation that Parliament is preparing to approve and with other rules of this type any candidate, even the most honest and intimate in the world, is at risk of arrest. These are the rules that Parliament is making. I repeat: this is the background article of the first page of the...Corriere della Sera. So I put it all together: the Chamber of Deputies, Judge Caselli and the Corriere della Sera, and what am I here? That the front of the fight against the Mafia is dramatically divided, splitting the Senate in half, with a part - those like me - that believes that this is not a struggle against the Mafia, but a tool that is used politically to fight opponents (which we have seen in Italy several times with a dramatic process of intentions). I recall that in 1994 I wrote by my hand, with the agreement of Martinazzoli and of the President of the Commission Justice, an exposure to the attorney in Rome in which we simply asked to deepen and understand how it was possible that Gava, Misasi and Andreotti were at the same time accused by the repentant of being at the service of 'ndrangheta, camorra and mafia. I repeat, I wrote the exposition along with the then Senator D'Onofrio. Well, six months later, the DIA, in a report to Parliament, wrote that the Mafia had infiltrated Parliament so much that it suggested the presentation of this statement. I called the then Chief of Parisi Police asking: I'm sorry, I'm from Modena, I wrote the exhibit and Martinazzoli saw it too. But what are you writing? It is clear that if there is a culture of suspicion, and if rules such as these are written, anyone is at risk of being hit. And this serves the fight against the mafia, camorra and organized crime? Then, when someone, including you, finds himself in trouble and is arrested, he will be aware of what happens with these rules. Awareness means a very simple thing, that is, that, with such serious penalties - we are talking about 10-12 years in prison you can strike a person who, when he goes to get votes, somehow has the awareness of dealing with the organized underworld, even if indirectly. But without awareness, there's arbitrariness in the possibility of hitting someone. In this case, the rapporteur - and I thank him - has returned to this House, and I believe that this is an important opportunity for this House to rebuild a unity, avoiding a split of mutual suspicions that can be good for anything unless it is good for the fight against organised crime. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u97	FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Mr President, I would like to start with Senator Giovanardi's last speech because I would like to clarify one point. The Government has returned to the House in accordance with the rapporteur; as you have noted, the Government is in line with the rapporteur on this measure. But I would like to clarify, for a matter of consistency, and I apologise to President Grasso and to the group leaders who had attended last week's Conference of Leaders when the work of this House was interrupted. I also intervene for consistency and intellectual honesty with my work, since I was present when the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies, standing up, unanimously approved the rule which contained the adverb, knowingly, was adopted. And that is a fact. I do not have much experience, but in any case I had never seen a whole House stand up and applaud a measure, and I have experienced this event also from an emotional point of view. I repeat, the Assembly of the House of Deputies stood up and 502 Members applauded. For this reason, I would like to thank President Romani for having very calmly tried at the Conference of the Leaders to ensure that they met in order to find a solution. I would like to point out that the Government, on the one hand, wants to be consistent and, on the other hand, calls on all political forces to find unanimity, in the light of the fact that 502 Members have stood up to applaud. After the vote and the applause of those 502 Members, Mr Malpezzi spoke. I would like to read your words again, and I apologise for having already done so at the Conference of the Leaders. Mr Malpezzi said: 'Mr President, while I am very happy to be able to make this speech after this beautiful vote, because I believe that it is right in this House to remember today - it is not exactly the anniversary, but it was last week, so these are the days - the human figure of lawyer Giorgio Ambrosoli'. And then he kept remembering Giorgio Ambrosoli. We lived - at least I, who was there to attend - a moment when a Member, after 502 had applauded, stood up and reminded Ambrosoli, talking about \'beautiful voteÂ: then I invite everyone to really find unanimity. The adverb "consciously" to some may seem superfluous: for my part, I must say that I agree with both President Palma and Senator Casson and have returned to the Chamber. If the concept is to be strengthened, the adverb is appropriate, but since it is an arson, it may seem superfluous. President Palma and Senator Casson, in speaking of the subjective element, stressed the difference between this text and the crime of electoral corruption, in Article 96 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957. I quote for myself the judgment of the Court of Cassation of April 24, 2012, which, in distinguishing the current article 416-b of the penal code from the text of the law on electoral corruption, which already exists, even if it is perhaps poorly applied, indicates as an element of distinction the recourse to the force of intimidation deriving from the Mafia associative bond. This means that the subjective element lies not only in the dole, but also in the procedures referred to in Article 416-b. If, therefore, I turn to the chairman of the industry to ask for the votes and I do not know that, in hypothesis, it is mafia, or that it goes to take the votes in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 416-b, in my opinion, with the current norm there can be no subjective element, whether there is adverb or not. In line with what had happened to the House, I have therefore returned to the House in agreement with the rapporteur and I believe that this adverb may seem superfluous, as I have tried to explain with the reasons set out above. This, however, must be the basis for reaching an agreement: there are also other amendments on which, in my opinion, we can try to reach an agreement in order to better type the rule and try to get out of this House with unanimity. I hope that I can relive the emotion I experienced in the House when we all stood up to applaud this provision. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u100	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would urge everyone to consider what the Undersecretary has just said: there has been unanimity in the House of Members on this text, and I would urge everyone, especially the Senators of the PD, to note that the current text of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code does not differ much from what we are going to vote on, from the point of view of the subjective element. I tried to get you to vote on an amendment that would copy what D.A. Caselli had said after the decision was passed to the House. When President Grasso sent the measure to the Commission to be examined and approved in the deliberating session, Caselli said that the adverb was consciously correct, because it is necessary to intervene on those cases which the Court of Cassation does not punish. The Court has repeatedly recalled that the person who negotiates with the politician must have the capacity to decide in the association. The formula voted on in the Commission today is the same in this respect as the current text: I also want to strike those who negotiate with a participant, not only with those who are the great leader of the Mafia, so I want to strike at the phenomenon, because we have to say that politicians must stay away from whoever is a participant in the Mafia, even the last one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] That is the reason for the amendment that I had written, by copying what Caselli had said. I would therefore ask you to reflect on this, because while the whole House has voted on this measure, you, because of the stubbornness of wanting to keep a point firm, avoid being unanimous in the Senate as well. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u103	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it is perhaps appropriate to clarify once and for all, given that the Government too, since the last statements, seems to want to take a possible path in relation to this amendment. The comparison with what happened to the House, with reference to the term "consciously" is completely out of place. In the text of the House, awareness was about acceptance, not about the subjective qualities of those who contact the politician. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Caliendo's notes.]] Senator Caliendo says of "no" with his hand, but just read the text of the Chamber: "Whoever knowingly accepts the taking of vows (...)" Therefore, unanimity, which rightly excited the representative of the Government, is understandable; but there was talk of an awareness that nothing had to do with the proof (the problem lies there) of the awareness of the subjective qualities of the procacciator. So, please, let's not mix the profiles, because they're two different things. You want to introduce something today, behind an apparent reasonableness. Senator Caliendo, no one here is the executioner who wants to send people who don't deserve it to jail. However, we are talking about a phenomenon, that of the exchange of votes, which, in addition to being rightly sanctioned by Article 96 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, is so far from our approach and our way of understanding politics and elections that I cannot even imagine a candidate for a movement or a clean party, who does not seek votes, that it confronts people who promise him one, one hundred or five hundred votes in exchange for something. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So we don't understand why we want to testify about this position and want to introduce the adverb "consciously" (referenced to the knowledge of subjective quality), circumstance that - we know it and you know it very well - will only put the accusation (procures) in a situation of extreme difficulty in being able to prove the existence of something that however has to do with the internal forum. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] To try awareness is not to prove the existence of a bank transfer or a screen: to try awareness (belonging to the psychological element) is something that will put in extreme difficulty the prosecutors in all cases where greater clarity is needed. Now, I don't want to take the defense of prosecutors (I say this to deny and prevent your possible attacks of justiceism to the 5 Star Movement), but here it is reasonableness. By synthesizing, what happened to the House has nothing to do with what we are talking about today: awareness is about two different things. If we add that "consciously" behind the apparent logic of the will, we open very dangerous passages with respect to the concrete application of the norm, which is why the 5 Star Movement will vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Senator D'Ascola points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u104	I am sorry, Senator D'Ascola, you asked to speak, but I cannot give you the floor, because Senator Giovanardi has already spoken for his own Group in an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u107	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I think it is necessary to make an explanation of vote in order to compare two aspects that have been raised this morning, one of a terrorist-psychological type by Senator Giovanardi, the other concerning the reference to the written intervention in a newspaper that would have been there by Prosecutor Caselli, according to the indication that it was given this morning. Both points must be contested, because they do not correspond to truth. I invite you to reread the article of July 26 of Attorney Caselli, in which he says very different things. Attorney Caselli, called to defense, last but not least, even by Senator Caliendo, absolutely does not express all this applause. He makes a detailed analysis of the text that came out of the Chamber and, on some points, formulates precise criticisms. Among other things, he remembers that the sentence had been lowered, wrong: so he trusted in an increase in the sentence, as we are doing in the Senate. On the adverb he was aware that he literally said that it is "ultroneo." And that is exactly what we are saying from the beginning (and now I will explain): it is ultroneo and, I would add, ridiculous, for a jurist, put an adverb of this type in a norm of this type! But I also turn to the aspect of psychological terrorism, because it is absolutely not possible to come to this Parliament and say that in this way all politicians can be accused of this crime. If Senator Giovanardi is accustomed to dealing with people who are intimidating with the associative bond or the condition of subjection and omerty, we are not and are far away from it! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Pin. Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] So, we don't do psychological terrorism, we think about the rules. And see that on this adverb "consciously" for those who want to reread the Reports of the previous session of this Chamber, they agreed, at least on the fact that it is useless and superfluous, not only the Government, as the Undersecretary Ferri has already said, but also Senator D'Ascola, Senator Palma himself and Senator Caliendo. It doesn't do any good, it's "ultroneo" as it was said. I say something more, because these days I have bothered to go and read even the criminal law manuals we used at the university. Now, Mr President, you will excuse me, and I apologise to my colleagues if I quote second year university manuals, but I quote them and do not read them, because it is enough to read the notion of malice in Article 43 of the Criminal Code to understand exactly what it means that awareness is necessarily part of the dole. Even the Antolisei, the Bettiol, all tell us that the element of the dole itself presupposes the awareness of acting contrary to the law and so on. I stop because I don't want to offend anyone, just to say that they are the basic elements of criminal law. So why do we insist on this 'consciously' useless, the result of a compromise, to try to eliminate conflicts that could also exist in the House of Deputies? I have the impression that there is something else, because if from the normative dictation of article 43 of the penal code and from all the jurisprudence of legitimacy it is believed that essential component of the dole in its various forms, even only generic or direct, in addition to the voluntaryness, is the awareness, I try to go a step further, and besides ultronea I say that this indication complicates the investigations of the police operators, because it risks to make the proof of the crime a diabolical probatio, and this we must avoid. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Pin.]] That is why we oppose it. We want to put in a law an ultronean adverb, indeed ridiculous, why would it be like writing "anyone who consciously steals," "anyone who knowingly robs"? They're laughing at us! Let's avoid this situation! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Dole and awareness refer to the norm that we have remembered and to those criminal modalities such as intimidation, omerta and the force of the mafia or camorrist bond, and so on. That's what we want to avoid. The rule is linear: let it come out as we have proposed it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u110	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I would point out to you that the intervention of the Undersecretary has inevitably reopened the debate. So, I'm asking Senator D'Ascola to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Sacconi, the representative of the government has not changed his position: he said he is returning to the Assembly. I don't think the State Secretary's intervention changed the government's position. SACCONI (NCD). Forgive me, President... I can give Senator D'Ascola a minute of surgery... sacconi (NCD). However, I would like to point out in general that the speeches of the representative of the Government reopen the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, but he explained something he had to explain at the previous sitting, so he said at the Conference of the Leaders! [[Protests of Senators Barani, Giovanardi and Malan. Senator Calderoli's dissension.]] SACCONI (NCD). That's what it's always been like. I remember them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u112	You have the floor, but I would ask you to speak briefly on this point. But that is the position of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u113	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking in a nutshell, but in any case it is sufficient to reply to the things that have been said by others; otherwise it would be useless to intervene. I believe there is a paradox here: it is said that politicians must stay away from the mafia, and one thing is said to be sacrosanct, but we are opposed to an amendment that wants the politician to respond only on condition that he is actually aware. I would like to understand how the two circumstances can actually be combined. [[Applause from the NCD and LAG groups]] I believe that Amendment No 1,102 has its absolute necessity and its topicality. The qualification as a mafia is intended to target the so-called grey area, those so-called unsuspectable subjects, of which this qualification emerges a posteriori. To require the politician to be aware and to define this particular subjective component is precisely to avoid that it can be said that some responds to a fact which, at the time it was realized, was not aware of. As for the adverb "consciously," in reply to Senator Buccarella's intervention, I would like to say that it is clear that "consciously" could not refer to acceptance. It would obviously be superfluous to have a rule requiring that certain people, who have accepted it, be aware of its acceptance. Then, only in this case, the norm is completely superfluous. Those who accept are fully aware of their acceptance. Awareness there has a very different and defined object, that is the object of that awareness is the condition and personal quality of the subject with which the politician agrees. As for the intervention of Senator Casson, I have expressed my perplexity about the adverb and the need to transform it into a condition of awareness of the quality and personal conditions of the subject with which some have agreed, but precisely the observation of Senator Casson, according to which the adverb or the different provision should not be introduced because, otherwise, would result in a diabolical probatio at the head of the public prosecutor, makes clear what is the real intention of those who oppose [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups):]] In other words, we do not want the public prosecutor to commit himself to pursue those who are aware and want the phase of preliminary investigations, on the contrary, to be enriched by subjects who, unaware of the qualification and personal conditions of their interlocutors, have had innocent relations with them, that is, that the phase of investigations, within which the probative threshold is extremely low, is enriched by absolutely involuntary protagonists of judicial events. We must then say that we are calling for this to be addressed only to those who are truly aware that they are talking to mobsters. [[Applause from the NCD Group, FI-PdL XVII and LAG.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u114	Your position is very clear: end, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u115	D'ASCOLA (NCD). This word does not weaken the fight against organised crime: it serves to prevent innocent people from being involved in investigations, arrested or even involved in media attacks, which would not bring any advantage in the fight against organised crime. [[Applause from the NCD Group, FI-PdL XVII and LAG.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u118	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, my group and I are not going to exploit anyone. So, references also to external personalities who commented on what happened in the House I think is completely out of place. I believe that it is also out of place in a Chamber like this, once again, to divide ourselves between those who are against the mafia and those who, according to the words of Senator Buccarella and - I regret to point out - also some tones of Senator Casson, want to open the gates: a completely unhappy expression used by Senator Casson, which I consider totally unacceptable. The way in which I have personally tabled this amendment is to create, here too, the political conditions that have been created in the House. It probably would not have made sense to propose this amendment again after the first draft of the text in the Commission; but since it is necessary to see the rules as a whole and since this adverb should be inserted today after reference has been made to the modalities of which it has been introduced, after any other usefulness has been introduced and after the extent of the penalty has been revised, we must then put it in the new article formulated by the Commission and not as a simple and mere reproposition of what has happened in the House, even if the spirit is the same. I therefore believe that, even if it were really ultra-rheavy, if it were politically useful to achieve a compact vote in this House, just like that of the House, after adjusting some of the settings of the House text that were wrong or that, however, did not lead to total sharing, this inclusion would be a politically positive fact. In fact, the judgment remains valid with respect to a rule that represents a huge step forward. If we did not read this rule in conjunction with article 76, paragraph 8, of the anti-mafia code we would commit a technical-juridical error, because these norms cannot be used on equal and odd pages, depending on how it is convenient, provided that the prosecutors will have more possibility to intervene to repress a phenomenon (external competition in Mafia association, the new text of article 416-b and article 76 paragraph 8 of the anti-mafia code). We need to redefine these rules forward by strengthening the instruments. Therefore, if it were also ultraroneo, rewritten and introduced in this new context that adverb assumes an extremely useful value both in the hands of the investigative judiciary and the judicial. I conclude by reminding Senator Casson that today we must not worry about anything with regard to this definition: we know, in fact, that an account is to offer the tools to start the investigation and, once there is the objective element or a plurality of clues, these are more than enough to promote it and to exercise the prosecution; quite different, however, is the result in the court, in which all the objective and subjective elements must be evaluated to the full. There's gonna be another game. It is, therefore, unacceptable that the new text, even with the addition of an adverb that had a very different meaning in the context of the Chamber than that in which it fits after the work of the Senate Commission, be judged by someone as a breach to weaken the action of the PM! It is i-nac-cet-ta-bi-le a judgment of this kind! [[Applause from the SCPI, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and GAL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u121	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we in the Mixed Left Group will vote against the amendment. It seems to us that what Senator Casson said has made perfectly clear the reasons why this term is completely superfluous in relation to all criminal law. We understand the great emotion felt in the Chamber before a unanimous vote, but we also believe that the Senate can continue, at least for now, to exercise its legislative function, especially if it improves and strengthens important texts such as these. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAPp Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u123	Senator Bruno, Senator Caliendo spoke for his group, who has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u124	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if you give me the floor, I'll explain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can't go on. We have moved on to the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u126	Senator Albertini, his Group has not yet made an explanation of vote, while Senator Caliendo has already made it for the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u127	He therefore has the right to do so. [[Senator Bruno's protests.]] Wait, after Senator Albertini. ALBERTINI (PI). Mr President, the political arguments that have been put forward by Mr Susta, that is, the desire to be unanimous in approving this measure in this House, are associated with the particularly important legal arguments that we have heard. In particular, I am referring to Senator D'Ascola's last speech. In declaring on behalf of my Group the vote in favour of the amendment proposed by Senator Susta, I would like to bring these arguments together in a single concept: we must call to mind the Esprit des Lois de Montesquieu, which was reminiscent of my colleague Mr Di Maggio, namely the terrible power that is entrusted to human beings like us to deprive other human beings of their freedom. We must be aware that this happens under the law, in the free conviction of an independent judiciary, but with lines established by the legislator. The adverb derived from the word "awareness" cannot be deleted from this reference. The unanimity we have achieved in the House must also be reiterated in this House, because it is based on these principles and has these characteristics. It is not a favor for the Mafia to think that only the accused who is unaware of what is happening is in a position not to answer for his responsibilities. This issue needs to be carefully considered by this House, and I conclude with even greater conviction than I have begun with regard to the need to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u130	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask you a courtesy: when you are asked to speak and you are told that the Rules of Procedure provide that where the Government has spoken the debate is reopened, you cannot answer that the Government has reaffirmed the same principle as before. Believe me, it's completely irrelevant what you said. Therefore, I have the right to speak and you have the duty to give it to me. However, I shall be very brief, in addition to the statements made by my previous Group's colleague. I want to respond to Senator Casson, who I saw collecting a big applause when he brought the example of the theft and the robbery saying that it is ultroneo to add, for the one who goes to do a theft, awareness. I think it's very childish what Senator Casson said, because that subject knows he's doing a criminally relevant act: he's in king ipsa. Here we are faced with a completely different situation, dear Senator Casson. Let's talk about who goes to ask for the vote, who contacts a thousand people and in contacting a thousand people can contact the plumber or professional, anyone, and must know, where he goes to ask for the vote, that that person has links with the mafia. This is the need for the term "consciously" and not because it is a crime such as theft and robbery. This has nothing to do with it, Senator Casson. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and PI]] When I know that I commit an unlawful act, there is no need for awareness; it is when I do a lawful act - that of going to ask for the vote, which is what any of us does - that I need to know who is the person I am facing. I wanted to stress this for the purpose of assessing the merits of the need for the word "consciously". [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVI and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u132	Senator Falanga, your group has already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u133	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this issue has been extremely detailed, but I would like to point out that the Government is also inconsistent with the opinion it has expressed and with which it has returned to the Chamber. In fact, I would point out that at least he should have confirmed the same opinion he had given to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, you should have intervened on the order of business. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you, Mr President, if you do not think that this amendment should be put aside, that we should move forward in our work and, if necessary, that further consideration should be given afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u134	I don't think that's appropriate. We shall proceed with the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Susta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. Amendment 1,103 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104. Sunta (SPI). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u137	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, there are only three votes left at the end of the examination of the measure, and I would ask the House for some kind attention. The crime referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code is an instant crime and punishes an occasional relationship that does not last in time between the politician and a participant in the association... (Senator Caliendo talks to other senators.) Excuse me, Senator Caliendo, do you mind? As I speak with my arms... president. Thank you for your cooperation, Senator Palma. Please, Senator Caliendo, we're looking at something important that I think deserves attention. I'm asking for a little focus. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. Article 416-b, in its current wording and in the wording resulting from the examination in the Chamber and, in part, in the formulation dismissed by the Justice Commission, constitutes an instant crime: it punishes an occasional and sporadic relationship, not destined to last over time, between the politician and the participant in a criminal association and nouns in the acceptance by the politician of the promise of votes in exchange for a sum of money or other utility. This is the pattern within which we are moving. It is not by chance that the Court of Cassation, with absolutely unanimous judgment, in distinguishing the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange from the crime of external competition in Mafia association, focuses exclusively on this: the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange differs from the crime of external competition in Mafia association because it does not bring a help and an effective contribution to the life of the association. With this in mind, in the text dismissed by the Senate Justice Commission, in addition to the promise to obtain votes in exchange for the payment or promise of money or any other utility, we read the following: "In exchange for the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the association" (i.e., in return for the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the association), which is exactly the incision that I believe should be deleted by amendment 1,105 tabled by me. I say this for two reasons. First of all, let us assume that the House will remove this part of the text formulated by the Justice Commission. Is this behavior punishable? Yes, of course. According to the settled jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, the so-called conduct of external competition in the Mafia-type associative crime may consist of any contribution. And here we get to the specific point. Also according to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, this contribution can well connect to an agreement by which a political exponent undertakes, in exchange for the promise of votes in the context of local, political or national elections, to favor the criminal organization in the award of contracts, in relations with the public administration, in providing confidential news or other. Therefore, if we were to expunge this engraved by the norm, there would be no punishable behaviour under Article 416-b (electoral-mafia exchange), but there would be the punishable behaviour according to the jurisprudential elaboration of the external competition in Mafia association, so that removing this engraved nothing takes away the contrast to organized crime. Why have I tabled Amendment No 1.105? Because, in my opinion, that engraving is a retrocession in the fight against organised crime. According to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the association is the fundamental criterion for the identification of the external competition in Mafia association: therefore, within certain limits, with the wording that came out of the Commission, we have regulated a specific case of external competition in Mafia association, which is exactly the following: "Anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a in exchange for the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the association (...) There is no doubt that from this point of view the external competition in Mafia association has been regulated. I ask you to eliminate it, without taking away anything from the fight against crime, and I am talking about a retrocession in the fight against crime because in our system (Article 25 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Criminal Code), there is the so-called principle of legality or the strictness of the charges: we punish what is provided for, we do not punish what is not provided for. And so my concern is that so far, in the absence of a specific rule regulating a specific situation in the external competition, there was the preparation of the case law that framed these cases exactly in the eternal competition, but at the time when we go to regulate, whether specifically, the external competition, poses a real problem of punishable according to the principle of legality and fiscality. For example, who in exchange for votes gives the willingness to satisfy the interests of the association is punished in accordance with Article 416-b, but you are all certain that those who in exchange for money give the same availability can, expected the constitutional principles, continue to be punished on the basis of the elaboration of the external contest, that is, this road is precluded by the fact that the legislator has considered to regulate a figure of the external contest, leaving aside for example the money or any other favor? There is a problem that can be interpreted differently by the judges and since we are talking about combating mafia or similar crime, and we do not really need flags, and since we are certain, on the basis of the legal elaboration, that the elimination of this etched does not diminish the punishable behaviour, because according to the correct case-law of the Court of Cassation that behavior is punished in accordance with Articles 110 and 416- bis of the penal code (i.e. external competition), I really do not understand the reason why we have to insist on leaving this inscribed, knowing well that it can allow an interpretation that, on the constitutional level, on Article 25 of the Constitution and, on the legal level, on Article 1 of the penal code, could make the judge consider the fact not provided for by the law as a crime. This is the meaning of the amendment that I have tabled which, as you can well understand, does not have a political meaning, does not have a obstructive meaning, but simply has an improved meaning. I would like to conclude with an example which is clearly paradoxical, but which fits well with the principle of taxability and legality laid down in our Constitution and in our legal system. Article 624 of the penal code in regulating the crime of theft says: "Everyone who takes possession of the mobile thing of others, subtracting it from the one who holds it, in order to profit from it for himself or for others." Which means that the theft of all items that may fall into the mobile thing is punished, in accordance with Article 624 and Article 625 (if aggravated) of the penal code, as there is a specific prediction. But if, hypothetically, in Article 624 it had been written: "Whoever, in order to obtain an unjust profit, takes possession of other people's vehicles is certain, on the basis of the principle of legality and being prohibited the extension of the extensive interpretation in malam partem (especially in criminal law precisely because of the principle of taxiivity), that with a different formulation of the crime of theft could have been condemned for theft who, perhaps, takes possession of a glass? As we are working on a rule that will combat the phenomenon of organised crime, and that is why we do not need flags but the efficiency of legislation to allow without whether or not the judges can intervene and sanction those who put in place behaviours that are illegal and that illegal must be considered, I ask the House to vote in favour of my amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u140	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I think we need to be aware of what the Senate is doing. I was particularly impressed when Senator Casson dismissed as ridiculous the arguments of magistrates with twenty or thirty years of career, of illustrious lawyers "principles of the Forum," in a contemptuous way. Of course, I understand Senator Casson's culture. Historically, we have already experienced these events. Do you remember the story of the Cathars? When the Crusaders entered Béziers, they asked: How do we distinguish heretics - that is, mobsters - from Catholics, that is, good citizens? The answer was: "Massacrate them all. It will then be God who will distinguish one another from the other. The fight against the Mafia, therefore, let's do it wholesale: let's slaughter them all, surely we will also hit the mafia. This is a culture that does not belong to me, but which has historically caused serious damage, and which is similar to what is emerging today. To my colleagues in the Democratic Party who have made an alliance with the 5 Star Movement Group on this measure, I ask: have you heard the arguments of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group? Have you heard that they have theorized that the very fact that a political representative goes to ask for votes or carry out theses that correspond to the needs of a category, a union, a social class, who thinks of it in a certain way from a religious point of view is considered an exchange vote? But do you remember the history of this country when socialists and Catholics at the beginning of the last century were imprisoned by the liberal state that theorized that a political-union association with more than one member aiming to have conditional elections cost prison? Do you remember how the Socialist and Catholic movement fought against this vision of the State that considered the association to be a crime to carry out class interests, perhaps? This was the history of Italy! Today we are told, by those who travel on the Internet, that the mere fact of going to ask for votes or to carry out requests that may affect the poorest classes of the population, or farmers, entrepreneurs, employees, is a vote of exchange! We start again to make the passages of culture on which in doing this we unknowingly lean. And with whom do you vote for these rules? What interpretation do they give of these rules? I come from Emilia-Romagna, and I inform you that your political movement (which is not as rooted as mine) has built its fortunes precisely on associationism, on the legitimate vote of exchange: the one on which politics is based. I want to guarantee, I want to promote certain social classes, I want to redeem them and in return I ask for the vote of these classes. Well? Do we want to handcuff politics? From the speeches of Senator Casson and the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, it seems so. And I am surprised that the Group of the Democratic Party, without listening to the alarm cry that comes from authoritative magistrates, authoritative lawyers, the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, is very casually writing this very bad page of the Senate. ( [[Undersecretary Ferri points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u143	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the amendment tabled by Senator Palma, which we obviously reject and on which I am voting against my Group, is particularly significant for us, because it is precisely the 5 Star Movement that has asked loudly, until it is achieved, for it to be included in Article 416-b, in the Mafia-political exchange vote, finally, after more than twenty years, the fundamental constituent element of the agreement between the politician and the mafia, that is, making it available. That is, in fact, the fundamental element, what we want to strike. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : what twenty years ago, by approving a deliberately depowered rule, did not want to strike; what, until now, the magistrates with so much effort and improvising norms that are not present in the code, try to strike, because, dear colleagues, they see it in the judicial classrooms. Let us see in the history of our country what it means, for a mobster, to have in the hands of a politician: it means coverage and fugitiveness, impunity, the certainty of not being prosecuted. That is the problem with our country. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is no small thing to include this paragraph in this provision. This is the very heart of the problem. The arguments that we have heard from Mr Palma, in other classrooms, would have been indicated by terms that we know, such as "suggestive" and "inconductive": evocative because they seem to be justified; inconductive because they do not concern the external competition, my colleague. Here we are not regulating the external competition, because - otherwise - Mr Palma's arguments would have been true. If we had thus regulated, in this limited form, the external competition, those arguments would have been true, but they are not. We are punishing and sanctioning a particular form of behavior of the politicians of this country, who do not buy votes with money from the mobsters, because it is offensive for the mobsters to be given money by a politician: it is the politician who is bought by the mobster, and not vice versa. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is the reality of this country and this is what we must punish. That is why our vote on this amendment will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u146	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I am also speaking because the arguments that have been made by President Palma are very intelligent, as always, and also suggestive, but we probably start from different points of view. I want to explain why our Group will vote against this amendment. The arguments put forward by President Palma do not cover two issues. The first question is that, in the state, there is no rule in our criminal system that punishes the external competition and, as President Palma pointed out, it is a case-law construction refined over the years, let's say, but still a case-law construction. The second question is that, even if there were the particular form of external competition provided for in the text, precisely because of that engraving that President Palma wants to eliminate this would be a specific case in relation to the general rule. Why is it specific? Because it has in itself that synallagmatic relationship, that is - to explain itself - that exchange between the promise of vote and action to pursue the interests of the association, which is specific to the political-mafia exchange. To us, therefore, it seems exactly opportune, overturning the argument of President Palma, to say that we introduce a first definition of an external form of competition in Mafia association precisely with that engraving that Senator Palma would like to eliminate. We know that we are introducing a specific case, a specific course related to the external competition precisely because there is this relationship of exchange between politics and the mafia. And we are aware that, among the different modes of external competition with respect to the Mafia associations, what concerns a co-interest between politics and the Mafia represents for the whole House, for the whole Parliament and for the country one of the most serious and dangerous modalities, first of all for democracy. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Susta. Senator Barani points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u147	Senator Barani, do you intend to intervene? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). The government representative has asked to intervene. Barani (GAL). If the government has asked for the floor, it must intervene first. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). The Rules of Procedure say that the government must intervene immediately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know that, but I'm only learning now that the government wants to intervene. Thanks for the report. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u148	Mr President, I asked for the floor immediately after Senator Giovanardi spoke, but perhaps we did not understand each other. I apologize. I would like to speak because this is an important amendment on which - I repeat - my conclusions do not change and my opinion remains in line with that of the rapporteur. However, I take the cue from President Finocchiaro's last speech, which I thank, because I believe that this is really a technical-legal and not a political point that he has correctly addressed on the tracks, giving note - and that is the point - that President Palma has raised a legal and technical problem not of little account, indeed. I would like to say aloud, because it remains in the record, that this is a problem on which case law has been talking for years, so it is good for me that there is a debate on this point. What President Finocchiaro said is correct. Today the choice, which is acceptable, but we must emphasize it because it must be highlighted and this is the message, is to type the external contest. As you teach me (in fact, speaking before you and President Grasso makes me embarrassed), the external competition in the associative crime is an institute that rightly - and I stress this - created the jurisprudence. For years it has been said that there is no rule, but the jurisprudence, in the famous judgment Mannino, rapporteur President Canzio, has identified the cases in which one can speak of external competition and has indicated requirements, has filled the container of the external contest in the associative crime. Today, and I agree with Senator Giarrusso, for the first time the legislator states: we type the external contest, but in this way we back, that is, we ask to indicate in the external competition of the minor elements compared to those that had created the jurisprudence with the associative crime. Then the choice - and if so, the Government agrees and has already expressed it with the rapporteur - is to typicalize the external competition in the crime of the exchange vote, instead giving up to reopen a general theme on the external competition in the associative crime. It is clear that this type of conduct is not that it is not punished to date: in fact, in Senator Palma's amendment 1,108, on which the Government has expressed the opposite opinion, the hypothesis of competition that exists today between Article 416-b and Article 416-a is excluded. They are conducted differently, and today is punished the conduct that is intended to introduce in 416- bis as an external contest in the associative crime, and the vote of exchange with 416-b. The choice today is therefore to typicalize the external competition, to determine elements smaller than those indicated by the jurisprudence and to do so only for the crime referred to in Article 416-b. I wanted to stress this, because I want to explain the reason for the contrary opinion of the Government, because it is not said that with this rule, although it is true that you want to typicalize, you want to exclude the jurisprudential hypothesis of the external contest: in fact there could also be the risk in the jurisprudential plan that one tomorrow it is said that the legislator wanted to typicalize the external competition in the associative crime, so he inserted it in a norm such as Article 416-b, and instead as an institution can no longer be created of jurisprudence. I therefore wanted to make this clear, because, on the one hand, we want to type, but at least I, in giving the opinion, on the other I do not want the jurisprudence to give up all that evolution that it created on the external competition by finishing the stakes. This is, therefore, the only risk that I would like to point out, in order to explain my orientation in the light of the intervention of Senator Palma, who has raised legal problems of considerable importance and technically very, very delicate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u151	Barani (GAL). Mr President, first of all I would like to subscribe to Amendment No 1,105 and make a comment, which will obviously not be technical, because I am faced with magistrates and lawyers who, with the code in their hand, can find the quirks, representing the feeling of the population and the average citizen - because in average stat virtus - of technicalism they do not want to know. I have heard someone in this House say that judges are climbing on mirrors, and Senator Giarrusso said that they have to make things up to hit a citizen. Colleagues, you cannot be condemned for what is not provided for by the law: but when is it possible - and I address the Undersecretary - to say that, while typing a crime, however for all the others there is the free will of the judges, and who cares? If the crime of external competition is typicalized in the precise cataloguing that is done in this way, then how can judges avail themselves of free will to decide, climbing on mirrors and screwing what is not expected? Finally, the political issue that I would like to highlight today, ladies and gentlemen - and I appeal to colleagues from Civic Choice, the former UDC, the New Right Centre and the League - is the great revenge of former Secretary Bersani, who finally saw his majority, made by SEL, the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement, and is therefore applauding on television: "Have you seen that I was right?" D'ASCOLA (NCD). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u152	Colleagues, we must put some order in the work, because Senator D'Ascola asks to intervene, but for his Group Senator Giovanardi has already spoken. We therefore need to put restrictions in place and, given that we know the technical and legal contribution that Senator D'Ascola can make to the debate, he has the right to intervene, but I invite him to do so in a brief manner. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u153	Mr President, the question raised by Senator Palma is extremely serious, to the point that I have allowed myself to file two written documents in the course of my work in the Commission, which, among the many other issues, also contained a mention of this. It is clear that the case law has used, over these years, the external competition in Mafia association precisely to punish the conduct that would fall today within 416-b, and it has done so precisely by noting the inadequacy of the current text of 416-b. So we would sin of superficiality if we did not put the problem of the gap between the external contest and 416-b. It must be said, excellent senators, that the expression used in the Justice Commission is equal from the explanatory statement of the Mannino judgment to united sections - anyone can control it - precisely in the most delicate part, in which it discriminates participation from the external competition. That judgment of the Supreme Court - and the Supreme Court will not change its opinion - is precisely rendered in the part in which it is said that it is external competitor who places himself at the disposal of the Mafia association. Therefore, we must realise that this intervention of legislative novation will lead to problems of conflict with the external competition. I repeat that I wrote these things, because it would seem unfair, or it would have seemed to me a sort of non-compliance with the obligations of loyalty, if I had not written these things. It must be said that Senator Finocchiaro suggests an extremely respectable technical-juridical solution, on which, however, I may disagree. Senator Finocchiaro argues that the conflict is not conceivable (therefore apparent conflict or specialty report marked by Article 15 of the Criminal Code), because this is a special text and therefore Article 15, i.e. the resolving rule of the apparent conflict between co-existing norms, says that in cases of external competition marked essentially by a political-mafioso exchange will be 416-b to be applied and not 416-a. But the principle of specialty - let me say this to Senator Finocchiaro - can be invoked on condition that there are two rules: one of a general order, the other of a special order. Now we would have only the special rule here, that is the rule that introduces a special hypothesis of external competition if carried out in the context of electoral competitions. But we lack the general norm. As Senator Finocchiaro herself reported, the external competition is a legal creation. Then we cannot talk about a speciality relationship between a general rule that does not exist and a special rule that on the contrary would be introduced. In short, the meaning of my speech... president. It's very clear. Conclude, please, Senator D'Ascola. D'ASCOLA (NCD). ...is that we must prepare ourselves for a jurisprudential conflict, which we are determining. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u156	Senator Caliendo, I warn you that President Palma has already spoken for his Group. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the issue referred to by President Finocchiaro and which was partly taken up by Senator D'Ascola. I'll be very brief, because Senator D'Ascola anticipated me. I would fully subscribe to the intervention of Senator Finocchiaro, if by hypothesis there were the general norm. My intervention is intended only to say that the Government has correctly placed itself and has drawn everyone's attention to one problem: intervening in Parliament on the external competition in this matter, without having regulated the external competition as a general rule, you can run the risk that the jurisprudential interpretation is blocked in relation to external competitions in Mafia association. I would like to speak, Mr President, just to say that there is no dialogue in this House today; there is probably a political agreement, I did not understand why and what it is aimed at, since we all agreed to identify enlargement towards those who participate in the Mafia association. I would therefore like to say to the interpreter that one day he should read the parliamentary work that is far from us the idea of regulating an external competition and that this is a general rule, because if this were the general rule and not the special rule we would be excluding the external competition from the Mafia association. Since I do not want this, I hope that some of the interpreters will take these comments into account, even though you know better than I do that the rule when you leave Parliament is then subject to interpretation and parliamentary work is not binding. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u157	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,105 tabled by Senators Palma and Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). President Palma, we are waiting for you, it is your amendment, we must not let you vote! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for your kindness, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.106. Sunta (SPI). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.107.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u160	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw this amendment because, since you have ruled, by rejecting amendment 1.05, as has been said, a specific hypothesis of external competition, there would be no point in providing for this part of external competition less than that provided for in Article 416-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u161	Amendment 1,107 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.108.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u164	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 1,108 refers to another aspect, with reference to the part of the external competition provided for in the first paragraph of the text which has so far passed here and in the Commission. Basically it is established that the procacciator of votes responds to the same penalties referred to in the first paragraph, and here there are different and not indifferent problems. If the procacciator of votes is a member of the mob association we must determine whether the member of the mob association is punished according to 416- bis and also according to 416-b as if it were a murder, a robbery, anything, and this, despite the clear diction of 416- bis, third paragraph, which precisely provides for the acquisition of votes. If this is not the case, the first point I put is: but if the subject who obtains the votes instead of being a participant in the Mafia association (penalty provided for in the first paragraph of article 416-a and recalled in the text so far launched here in the Senate) should by chance be an organizer, promoter or head of Mafia association, incredibly, because of 416-b it would have a lower penalty than the one provided for for its role as head and organizer from 416-a, second paragraph. If, by hypothesis, the procacciator were not to be part of the mob association, as Senator Casson said before, this rule would be completely ultronea and, perhaps, even ridiculous, because the criminality of the procacciator not adherent to the mob association would achieve ex Article 110 of the penal code, as a competition of persons in the crime. The hunter competes with the crime committed by the politician. I therefore rephrase my amendment, in the sense that I call for the deletion of the second paragraph. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The second paragraph of Article 1 provides that the same sentence shall apply to those who promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures laid down in the first paragraph. Senator Palma, do you request the deletion of this paragraph? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. I apologize to my fellow Members if there is going to be a bit more technicalism, but it is clear that the debate on this second paragraph, despite the hilarity of some, cannot be cleared with two lines in this House. Deciding whether article 416-b is a crime other than the participant or promoter of the association, is an extremely complex scientific discourse. I personally believe that it is more correct to allow the interpretation of judges to determine whether the participant or promoter of the Mafia association, in committing the offence provided for in Article 416-b, must have a double criminality, as provided for in Article 416-a, for the role he plays, and in Article 416-b, for the new offence that goes to commit, or not. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that, if the procacciator were never to be part of the mob association, the rule would not make sense because the penality would derive from the first paragraph, ex Article 110 of the penal code. For these reasons, I call for the deletion of the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u167	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, President Palma has raised an issue which, as defined in the text of amendment 1,108, sees us in agreement, but we do not agree with the idea of rewording. In this second paragraph we want to punish the voter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Those who promise to procure. LUMIA (PD). That's right. He who promises to procure is a different figure from the politician. In this case we can have a figure that coincides with the member of the mob organization and, then, the text proposed by amendment 1,108, as formulated and that we all have before us, makes sense. If, instead, it does not have this characteristic, it is worth what the norm already provides in the second paragraph. Abolish, however, totally the second paragraph discovers us, because it leaves unpunished a subject that deserves instead that his conduct is criminally affected. Therefore, Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we are asking the rapporteur and the Government to accept Amendment No 1,108 as originally formulated; instead, we are opposed to the idea of redrafting the amendment which provides for another condition, namely the total deletion of the second paragraph of 416-b, as approved in the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u168	President Palma, let's get back to the problem before. On Amendment No 1,108, you are the dominus.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u169	I have listened to Senator Lumia's speech, Mr President, and, I have to tell you the truth, I think he is right about one point: the criminality of the promoter who is not part of the mob association in a crime which is essentially a necessary competition would be discovered. In recalling what was planned for the crime of corruption, I recall that its article - I do not remember the number, since it is so long that I do not attend the courtrooms - says: "the same penalty applies to the courtroom." I am, then, available to amend my amendment, but with further clarification. I wrote, "Save what is provided for in the first and second paragraphs." I would like to rephrase Amendment No 1.108 as follows: "Out of the cases provided for in the first and second paragraphs of Article 416-a," in order to express in clear terms that this second paragraph applies to an entity that is not part of the association, leaving therefore completely free the interpretation of the judge in determining whether 416-b is an offence added to 416-a or should be deemed to be absorbed by the diction of 416-a. In the final rewording of the amendment, therefore, instead of the expression "Save as expected" I insert the words "Out of the cases provided for in the first and second paragraphs of Article 416 -bis
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u170	Amendment 1,108 would be amended as follows: "Out of the cases provided for in the first and second paragraphs of Article 416 ‐bis ". I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 1,108 (text 2) which has just been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u171	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u172	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u175	CASSON (PD). Mr President, with Senator Lumia, we were right to meditate on President Palma's proposals. I have to say that we would have been in favour of the initial approach to this amendment, because it seemed to us that it adequately framed the situation of the one-off intermediary, under certain conditions and situations, which has contact in order to obtain votes, in the manner we know, to that mobster. That initial approach to Amendment No 1,108 would have found our agreement. The first rewording of the amendment, which had been withdrawn, would not have been accepted. A second amendment has now been tabled, on which we are opposed. Let us consider, in fact, what would happen in this case: it would concern the case of the person of the intermediary and for the mobster would be excluded the penalities in relation to this type of crime, if it is specified in the norm outside the cases. This reading - but we were meditating while the proposal was being formulated - cannot agree with us, because on the contrary it is certainly possible to formulate the formal contest of crimes, i.e. participation or organization of Mafia association together with the crime of voting political exchange-mafia. It would be a formal contest. If I understand correctly, I will ask for the text to be reinstated, but if this is the reading, it seems to me that we should vote against it. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u176	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1,108 (text 2), tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u179	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that we will still achieve an important result today. We have inherited from the Chamber of Deputies a text that certainly had technical shortcomings, but I remember as an important element of this legislature the climate that was created immediately after that vote, which is the climate that also reminded the representative of the Government, the Undersecretary Ferri in the Chamber, who accompanied the contacts between the Group Leaders and the Presidency of the Senate to immediately schedule, in the deliberating session of the Justice Commission, that bill. This happened at a particular moment, after months of political tension and two months after the formation of the new Government, in a climate of broad understanding in which one tried to give life to a need that existed in the country, but also to the appeal of the Head of State. It was a useful climate for the in-depth examination of an important measure, which finally set itself the purpose of solving open jurisprudential questions, interpretations that no longer found a harmony between the common feeling of the people, the fight against the mafia and the same doctrinal-jurisprudential elaboration. 14.32 (Susta follow). In the Justice Commission, the bill, which came from that important and conditioning vote of the House, was questioned by many, even partially by myself. The debate that took place in the Commission was important, thorough and technically and certainly of quality. The echo of that debate, in a deeply changed political climate, is what we have found today and in recent days about the final issues that we have had to deal with. But all this does not take away the importance of what we are doing. That is why Citizens' Choice will vote in favour of this text. He will vote in favour because, despite the text that will be put to the vote after this long debate and after the vote on the amendments is not the best of our wishes, he resolves many of the issues that the House text would have left open. It will probably leave others open, but we have tried to recover in part with the amendments, some of which are mine too, what the Commission had archived a bit hastily in relation to the work of the House. The vote against these amendments would not, however, justify a vote against a measure which, in any case, marks another fundamental step in the fight against organised crime, the mafia, the conditioning of the mafia on politics, the enslavement, in many cases, of politics to the mafia. And from this point of view, I believe that the benefit of an inventory of everything we have said in these days and in relation to the text that will be voted on is certainly in favour of the adoption of this measure. However, let me point out what is not right from our point of view in what has happened. True, there is a politically different climate than in July and August (especially in July). In the House that bill was the subject of a very long, very debated discussion. I do not believe that this so-called Upper House should be considered so much superior to the debate in the Commission and in the Chamber to the point of saying that we are the professors who have the right to correct a wrong written task. The examination of a task like that, carried out at that time on a crime like this, on a subject like this, cannot lead a Chamber to judge that the work of the other has not been up to the level. There was a different political will. In this House today, these days, we have used the technical and legal aspects to question a political issue. We here did not want to make the effort they wanted to make to the House to demonstrate to the country the unity of intent in the fight against organized crime. Someone here wanted to raise the flags, and when they want to raise the flags and simply want to highlight their merits and perhaps the demerits of others, instead of making an effort to find a high mediation that the Commission's text, with some small correction that took up the House's text, would have allowed, we do a political operation to lose. Today we will approve this measure, but we will do it by a majority, and that is not a minor aspect. The lesson that came to us from the House was another: it was the lesson of those who perhaps left in doubt some aspects - as there are so many others in our legislation - but it claimed the merit of reaching a united consensus around a fundamental passage of clarification and response to the jurisprudential doubts that on a fundamental issue such as the external competition in Mafia association and the vote of political exchange-mafioso jurisprudence gave us, and delivered them to us because of the legislator of these years and certainly not because of the jurisprudence itself, the judiciary or the doctrine. This is the vulnus of today's vote, which leaves the most indifferent or perhaps will allow someone to easily get some title or to criticize someone more easily. But surely we have not made the effort to achieve unity of intent, as it would have been useful. And since it is more important what remains carved into stone and codes than the feelings that animate politics in some stages of history that politics is called to live, I think it is useful to vote on this rule as it was dismissed by the Commission and as it is dismissed by the House after the vote on the amendments. It is certainly a useful rule that we put in the hands of lawmakers in order to be able to reaffirm the primacy of politics and to be able to give to organized crime a strong signal by which to show that the State does not give way, that the State keeps its back straight and that we want at all costs to truly give back to our entire country a feeling of cohesion around the principle of legality that is fundamental and essential to our civil coexistence. [[Applause from the SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u182	Barani (GAL). Madam President, what is being written today is one of the ugliest pages in the history of the Republic, which obviously turns our constituent Fathers into their graves. That is enough, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about reforms, because for the majority of our colleagues it was good that there was a double reading, that that acclaimed text standing in the House did not become law, it was good that there is still the Senate, that it was able to repair the damage they did with the government's favourable opinion, with the rapporteur's favourable opinion, with all the groups standing up, those displeasing. It went well that there is this Upper House, made up of people much more competent and capable, who put a brake on that drift that came from the House (so we are careful to eliminate the Senate). A bad page is being written, and the only one celebrating today is Mr Bersani, who is watching us on television and says: I was right, I had to be President of the Council with the 5 Star Movement, the Democratic Party, SEL and the spare wheel of the Socialists of Buemi. Senator Buemi, among other things, is the rapporteur for this measure, and it is obviously my disapproval to him, and I shall confine myself to that, because a socialist can never, ever, vote for this rule. We know that the PD is not socialist, it has never been, and in order not to become socialists in the days of Bettino Craxi are dying Catholics and Christian Democrats, and this is good for them. I was saying this because it is impossible to think that this House today did not even approve the amendments inspired by a great sense of responsibility that came from the majority, such as Senator Susta's amendment or Senator Albertini's amendment: amendments that were not from the opposition, but from the majority. We wanted to break the majority: this is a government that no longer has reason to exist, because there is no majority, but it is made up of variable majorities. But do you realize that today on such an important measure there is a variable majority, with the 5 Star Movement and SEL, with two parts of the opposition? New Right Centro, Civil Choice and UDC are aware of this? Senator Buemi, you who are the rapporteur, do you realize today's failure, what you have created? You have taken a majority vote on this measure. Next year, we hope even before, with a new government, do we still proceed with majority shots? Shall we do as in 2001, when Title V of Part II of the Constitution has been amended, which has brought the misery that exists now, with four votes by majority? Do we do this? Congratulations. Why is it always you, Catholics, who ruin Italy? MARINO Luigi (PI). What are you talking about? Barani (GAL). My friend Senator Giovanardi, commenting on the speeches, said that in Emilia there is no mafia: but how is there no mafia? Red cooperatives are the first Mafia in Italy, and I believe that they will have to take this responsibility, because there really is a criminal association in which all contracts are taken in favour of a party, which is the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u183	Senator Barani, if you have any evidence, please go to the prosecutor's office to report it, but behave correctly here in this House. Please, Senator, we're listening. There are prosecutors from the Republic for complaints. [[Applause from Senators Marino and Buemi and Senators Engili and Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u184	The prosecutors are from that political side, Madam President, as you well know, because you know better than I this criminal affair in which all contracts are taken, in certain regions, only by them. It is quite clear, just look at them, will they not close their eyes, Madam President? That's it, that's it, that's it. There's been a media-judge coup, we know that. We Socialists have been denouncing it for 20 years, so that is quite clear. Then the acquittals come. They come after ten, fifteen, twenty years. Sorry, this isn't justice! See, for example, the fact that 50% of prisoners are awaiting trial and that half of them are destined to be found innocent is not acceptable! Madam President, 13,000 people in prison are judged innocent, and you come to comment on me? You should get up and sneak up on...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u185	I made a remark about your complaint about a relationship between evil and a party. In this sense, I was telling you to think about what you were saying in this House, and that there are prosecutors for the complaint. Please continue your speech and stick to the explanation of vote on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u186	We have a bank, and now we also have the Bank of Italy. The deletion of the word "consciously" initially present in the text and then removed is certainly a first and fundamental point of criticality. In fact, it is obvious that the will, ergo the awareness of criminals is an indispensable element, especially when such severe penalties are expected that they are applied so much to those who promise to provide the benefit, both to those of this benefit would enjoy in the last instance. The same concept of "promise" then opens up to many doubts. While it is true that the crime is manifested at the moment of its realization, I wonder and ask all the citizens who listen to us, ladies and gentlemen, how, moreover, on such a delicate matter, the vague and hollow idea of a promise can suffice, without it being better defined, to determine a very serious crime, given the severe penalties provided for. The very concept of "promise" seems more focused on a process of intentions than on any form of concreteness. Intentions are being tried. If a promise in this sense does not have to be realized or is addressed in a random way to a interlocutor who does not have the slightest idea of what is behind the guarantee given to him in terms of electoral consent, how can one think that this can be enough to believe that one is faced with a crime, moreover so hateful? What if a candidate is deceived by those who propose to support him, how this support should be implemented? This is all the more true in view of the fact that in addition to the passage of money that would prove the crime, the measure under consideration also speaks of other generic utilities or of the availability to meet the interests or needs of the association. Failing the amendment tabled by Senator Palma did not want to accept the deletion of the sentence. You are so shortsighted that you do not understand that in this way we have regulated the crime of mob association. Madam President, I am naturally saying that those who vote for this measure are in favour of the Mafia. To give a trivial example, I ask what happens if a candidate hires a person to entrust his election campaign. It is clear that the work of the latter is aimed precisely at intercepting consensus. Can the candidate know who and with what commitments or modalities they address? In fact, however, having assumed it and therefore paying it would fall, even if unconsciously, in the present case, both where the money is expressly mentioned, and as regards the vaguest concept of "other utility," having nevertheless made an assumption. That is why I thought and still believe that it is essential to have the word 'consciously' in the text. I hope that the House of Deputies will re-introduce it at the second reading of the measure and that this unanimous applause will not just be an applause of circumstance. The same quantification of the number of consents promised then assumes its specific value from which one cannot ignore. It is clear that before the promise, perhaps dictated precisely by the same party membership, of a limited number of votes, it would be induced to believe that everything occurs in full compliance with the law. The candidate would think of a family with his own political ideas. But what if this family turns out to be a mobster? Even without passing money, how would any other usefulness be ensured? Or again, if you try to recover the votes of an association, or any other group because you share its aims or interests with the promise to plead their cause as it is shared with conviction by the candidate, is it possible to think of incurring in this new case that you want to introduce because - perhaps - some of the members of such groups could be close to organized malavitous groups? I shall conclude, Mr President, although I still have a lot to say. This is a black page, and our constituent Fathers would obviously not be proud of it. The present case, as it is, is not good, because it is excessively vague and devoid of a concrete qualification of the fact that it is appropriate to punish. This is a concept that my Group not only does not agree with, but fights with conviction, of course that the rotten apples should be removed from the branches, without necessarily having to break down the tree to which they are hung. If God wills, here there is still bicameralism and - therefore - the hope is that the Chamber of Deputies will change the text, just as it has been changed - unjustly - by the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u189	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I will say a few words, not least because the debate has gone so far, and we have devoted a great deal of our time to the adverb 'consciously'. My explanation of vote for the Group is certainly in favour, and it could not be otherwise. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to make a few very brief comments. The first is to give credit to the intellectual honesty of the Undersecretary Ferri, who testified in this Chamber what it was that involved both the Commission and the House. The second consideration is that our vote on this measure is a responsible vote and it could not be otherwise remembering, however that ours is a mission in the fight against the mafia and it is not a profession, as I believe today we wanted to make believe within this Upper House. I say this also emphasizing precisely the deteriorating aspect of anti-mafia professionals. Tomorrow we may have some titles and a few more pages, but it is not exactly the work of the legislator. I would like to stress the most important thing and I am sorry for the absence of most senators, but above all of the group leaders, from the Chamber. It should be pointed out that what we have discussed is also characterized by the great political value that the debate has had in this House. I would like to remind the Leader of the Democratic Party that the debate in this House is certainly a precedent; it is a precedent that we will certainly take into account as a People's Group for Italy, because here - basically - we have today disregarded the demands that came from the majority. The rapporteurs know perfectly well that this is a precedent in case law and I would like them to take this into account for the remainder of the parliamentary term. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u192	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments, having already stated in the general debate the reasons why my Group - particularly the Left Ecology and Freedom - shares the spirit of the text that we adopted in the Senate and considers it an improvement and not a worsening of the text approved in the House. I've already remembered the reasons. We believe that it has been a good thing, in the reformulation of the Justice Commission, to avoid any reference to a concept which we believe to be particularly ambiguous, such as that of obtaining votes. In any case, we think that today's day is, differently from what some Members have said before me, a very important day, for at least two reasons. I would like to make a number of political considerations in this regard, also in order to try to frame this measure in a more general context. The first is as follows: we have had, as a country and as a Parliament, in the past years, following the attack that the Mafia had brought to the heart of the State and to our democratic institutions, a very strong reaction from the State and public opinion. I have had the impression, and I think I can also say it on the basis of many facts that have happened, that this tension and the very strong contrast that has occurred over the past years have gone down in time. Over the last few years things have happened that are before everyone's eyes. The lowering of the tension of politics and the ability to combat the mafia, crime, camorra and the pervasiveness of criminal organizations towards politics have often led to a state of great difficulty in our institutions. Just think of how many city councils have been dissolved over the last few years in a more or less general silence and addiction. So it happened, as it still happens, that in many territories of our country there were incredible facts, absolutely incompatible with a rule of law, and they happened precisely in an atmosphere of substantial inability to put concrete answers in the field. I come from a land, Campania, in which dozens and dozens of municipal councils have been dissolved over the years, and in which have happened - I have also said it in general discussion - truly dramatic episodes in their incredibleness. A municipality that I often quote as proof of what I am saying, that of Fourth, was dissolved because - think - during the electoral campaign a candidate of a party at the time of government was elected to City Council despite having been arrested twenty days earlier. Today that politician is serving a sentence of seven years in prison for very serious crimes. It is clear that there has been a lowering of tension and a difficulty on the part of politics over the past few years in being able to put in place strong elements of contrast. If, for once, politics can be in tune with public opinion and with what has happened in this country over the last few months, it seems to me a positive fact. We discussed this today in general debate. The events that have taken place this morning, the division that has taken place on some points, do not want us to lose sight of this element. The measure in the vote is not simply a positive thing made by the policy for the measure as such, but because it once again meets the challenge that had been launched by very significant segments of public opinion: 300,000 people signed a petition and many elected parliamentarians put a bracelet on their wrists to give a symbolic value to what they did to support this type of measure. Well, the fact that this measure is approved by the Senate today seems to me, from this point of view too, to be an important fact. I would certainly prefer - and I say this to my colleagues in the centre-right - that this measure should be adopted unanimously in this House, whereas the fact that, most likely, from what we are understanding, majority voting is not, in my view, a good thing. And I will not be part of those who, with an easy propaganda that I frankly do not agree with, will say that those who do not approve of this measure do so to do favors to the mob. I don't think so. However, I think another thing, which I would like to say critically to my colleagues in the centre-right, who, knowing me, know how attentive I am to guaranteeing and avoiding putting in place principles of justiceism that risk corroding the fundamental elements of this country's society. I would like to ask them with great clarity if they do not find it a bit strange that this guarantee is expressed in alternate plates: sometimes yes and sometimes not. I would like you, colleagues in the centre-right, to put all this guarantee into practice even when it comes to repealing other rules, such as the Bossi-Fini, the Fini-Giovanardi or the former Cirielli, and even when it comes to less excellent prisoners or crimes that are not committed by politicians, but by people who have no particular names or possibilities, such as building a strong defence around them. In short, I would believe in this demand for guarantee if there were always guarantees, while I do not think it acceptable that sometimes we get caught up in it and sometimes we forget what it is. In my opinion, this element of discussion, which I would like to introduce this morning, is very serious, partly because it is clear that this measure is a problem for the parliamentary majority. Again, I, who are opposed by the Letta Government, have said from the first day that I feel the majority that has been created around the broad understandings before, the small broad understandings today is spurious and unpolitical. I hope that this will also be a warning to my colleagues in the Democratic Party and a subject of reflection for them and for those 101 who nine months ago, together with the incommunicability of the 5 Star Movement, have plunged into the secret of the ballot box the possibility of giving life to another type of government for this country. What comes out of this morning is really a great lesson for everyone, and I would like us to interpret it in this way, talking about what has happened and is happening today, but also about the more political issues that are behind these events. As far as we are concerned, we will vote in favour, because we put the bracelets on our wrists and supported and approved the petition that has been so successful in the squares of this country over the past months. Sometimes symbolic gestures are also very useful and important to put in place an element of contrast to the mafias, and we think that with today's measure Parliament probably succeeds in doing what little has done in recent years, namely raising the threshold of attention. For too many years we have looked in a distracted way at what was happening in the foundations of our country and we have deluded ourselves that the mob phenomenon and the most significant criminal organizations in this country had been defeated. Of course, they have suffered a blow over the course of these years, but they have certainly not yet been defeated. All the measures that facilitate their defeat and the affirmation of a democracy that in this country is still too often unfinished from our point of view are positive and will of course always see us in agreement. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u195	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, at the root of the so-called exchange vote, there is clearly an act of corruption. Moreover, we find this case already codified as a crime in Roman law, according to Cicero: the ambitus was the crime of corruption in the electoral scene, which struck behaviors comparable to the current exchange vote and clearly linked to the ambition of the candidate who did everything to get elected. Precisely on this theme, Cicero promoted a law, the lex Tullia, which precisely established the correct way of carrying out electoral campaigns. This is to say how it was practiced even in antiquity a misconception that today, especially in our country, where the greater the presence of organized crime (but not only), has taken the form of a phenomenon that, by quality and quantity, has reached intolerable proportions. So much so that the candidates for the 2013 general elections had been asked by "Restarting the future" - a campaign, as has already been said by others, urged by civil society, many organisations and associations and individual citizens - the commitment to strengthen the regulatory provisions in force, in order to counter the electoral exchange between politicians and mobsters. A commitment that many of us have signed and that, once elected, has been maintained - also of this must be given recognition to politics - through the presentation of several draft laws on the subject, including one of the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. We have therefore immediately demonstrated our will not only to change an incomplete and inadequate rule of the penal code, but also to put in place a tool aimed at eradicating a phenomenon that unfortunately has become a real system for obtaining votes in support of its candidacy; a system that finds fertile ground in situations of environmental distress, unemployment, poverty, social and cultural delay, of general disinterest in politics (but not only, because today there are other forms). Of course, I leave out all the ethical considerations, which are not up to us legislators or, in any case, the role of politics and parties in the broad sense, because clearly on this point, in my opinion, there must be an act of responsibility on the part of the political forces in selecting the political staff who are running. In order to counter the political-mafia links, Article 416-b of the Criminal Code provides for the application of the sentence to those who obtain the promise of votes in exchange for the payment of money, that is to say that the crime is only realized in the presence of a mafia pact that provides for the exchange of money in exchange for votes, denying at the root the punishableness of a simple electoral agreement not having such an exchange and therefore without any concrete execution. However, the reality is more complex and the offer of money is not the only way - as we have seen and as we have said in the general debate - that politicians or those in his favour act in the corruptive exchange. Favors, promises of information or jobs, protection from repressive action (obstaculating the work of the police in various ways), information on tenders or competitions are just a few examples of electoral exchange, which, however, does not consist of exchange of money, do not fall into the particular crime envisaged today that we are actually going to change. Well, our Group very much appreciated the work that took place in the Commission on the text sent by the House and also wanted the debate that took place in this House today. This work, in fact, could be and has actually been improved; in the end we have a better text than the one at the time deposited and transmitted by the House. Indeed, the changes made - as the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, has explained very well - completely rewrite Article 416-b of the penal code, widening the criminal case and thus filling several gaps or, better, the shortcomings of the original article. With the new text they have been made to fall among the causes of penality not only the release, but also the promise of payment of money or other utility; but above all - and it is of great innovative importance - has been introduced in the norm, as a forecast of crime, the widespread practice of acceptance of votes in exchange for the willingness to satisfy the interests or the needs of the association. Moreover, another important innovation, which involves the subjection of the same sentence, scheduled for seven to twelve years, is completed, not only by those who accept the promise, but also by those who promise to obtain votes. In conclusion, I would like to quote a phrase that can be found on the site of "Restarting the future": "To break the corrupt pact between criminal and political organizations is the first indispensable step to be taken to rebuild the social pact." We of the Group For the PSI-MAIE Autonomies want to contribute to the reconstruction of this social pact, we want to contribute actively to finally turn the page to our country. We want a country where normality is legality; a country where even the economy no longer suffers from the influence of organized crime, which is an obstacle to the development of healthy economic activities and also discourages foreign investors. We must start from here, giving a strong and precise turning point to our behaviour, and in this, as I said, politics is also responsible. For these reasons we are voting with conviction in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u198	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen at the outcome of this broad debate, and also with regard to all the individual amendments, when it is time to frame a problem such as that of the Mafia association in a legal text, we understand how sensitive and difficult this issue is to deal with. I have to say that we were a little surprised by the procedure that followed the measure under discussion and I think it might be useful to remind us of what has been the way forward. When the text was adopted unanimously by the House of Deputies, it was thought that it was the result of a drafting and deepening of the text: one of the branches of Parliament cannot be thought of as being less sound than the other. The text that came out of the House, as it was chanted, was certainly a useful and valid tool in the fight against the Mafia. When he arrived here in the Senate he was assigned to the Justice Commission in deliberating session, so it seemed that the provision should also be dismissed by the Senate in the same text approved by the House. It would certainly have been the best move, a step that would have given glory to this Parliament, since what we are talking about is a crime of mafia which involves, above all, relations between politics and the mafia organisations. The text had to be approved and then doubts, considerations and concerns arose. We in the North League immediately took note of this and we were one of the groups who signed the request to bring back the discussion and discussion of the text to the House. In fact, it seemed appropriate, seeing the perplexities raised by a part of this Senate, that it was right to deepen them and in fact we saw here the discussion to what extent it came. A number of complications were then introduced and the text dismissed by the Justice Commission modified the original plant. Now, at the outcome of this broad debate, we, as the North League, are here to make some considerations, just to give a debt tribute to what we believe was an excellent Minister like Minister Maroni. We recall the great struggle carried out precisely by Minister Maroni against the Mafia organizations and the results he had, which received the applause, not only in Italy but also abroad. What we in the North League want to do is still a heavy fight against this phenomenon. As one previous speaker said, we are unfortunately talking not only about a mob association, but about a system and what is concerned is that we are still talking about the system. We are in a world where there are so many advances in technology, there have been so many recognized rights and sensitivity, and we are still here today to discuss how to put in place an effective fight against the mob. We would like it to be a memory of sad books and instead we are talking about it as something current, existing and not only as an association that works in itself, but also for those that can, unfortunately, be the links and relations of that association with what should be one of the purest, most correct and honest parts of our civil life, that is, politicians. Unfortunately, from what you listen to talking to people, you are creating a real disamore towards politics and politicians. A climate of deep distrust has been created and we, in this legislature, really have to work, as much as possible, to maintain the dignity of what we are doing. What greater dignity than acting politically without the pollution of criminal associations and mafia associations? We must continue and move forward to try to find the most effective instruments, even the hardest ones. Today, however, we find ourselves with this text in which, as we shall see from the votes we have cast on the amendments, there are passages that should probably have been resolved differently. We are still convinced that this text should be improved by this branch of Parliament. We have shared and voted on a number of amendments which have been proposed because, taking account of the considerations that have been made, we could actually find a text that is even more effective, in our view, by providing the judiciary with the means to act against these criminals, and to have a correct interpretation that does not leave room for letters that may perhaps be misleading. That is why we thought that this text should come out well improved by the amendments that have been proposed. Basically, however, what we in the North League Group and Autonomy regret is that talking about a crime of mafia, without unanimous approval, is serious. It is serious that a rift should be created within this House against what must be a useful and effective tool to be able to combat mafia infiltration into political power. There had to be unanimity. I wanted and we thought that when we looked at the amendments, we would have a common text. We also had the time and there have been days that have certainly allowed some Group to make considerations within it in order to be able to understand if you could get to a text really shared. On the other hand, as we have seen and grasped, the positions remain, unfortunately, different. When we have to assess the text, even though we are deeply concerned about what came out of the Commission, we are still convinced that it would be a further and positive element of this text. We are also convinced of some considerations of legal technicalism because, after all, we are legislators and we must also be technicians. However, when we are finally voting on this text, where we are talking about a worsening of the penalty for this political-mafia exchange vote, where there is, however, a profile that punishes those who promise to obtain votes in a mafia way, we cannot vote negatively. I repeat that a different solution would have been desirable, but after the outcome and due consideration, we cannot fail to vote in favour, however, of the definition of a crime that provides a harsh penalty for those who use the mafia to make politics. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u201	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Madam President, the vote on the New Right Centre will be abstaining. That is a sad statement to our political side, which would certainly have liked a different solution to the many issues that have been dealt with in this House with reference to Rule 416b. I must point out that we have gladly accepted the idea of an extension of criminality which, alongside the actual adoption of the votes, also included the general promise of a vote-taking. I must also remember that the text that comes out of the Senate is not the text voted to the House and this abstention of ours, therefore, is also an act of fidelity, as well as of sharing, of that text that, against our will, it was intended to overturn within the Senate, through a substantial modification precisely in the part in which it was considered to include within the criminality also the case of those who were not aware of the subjective qualification of the one with whom the pact could be tightened. This is the very fundamental and focal point of our abstention. If we want to fight organised crime, all the mafias, however called, we do not understand what reason could have hindered the exclusion from the criminality of those who are not aware of interlocating with persons belonging to criminal organizations. This is not a secondary point, as it was thought to pass, since it is a choice of civilization to separate the unconscious subjects, those who, for the most varied reasons, do not know the true qualification of their interlocutors, compared to those who are perfectly aware of this qualification; so that the inclusion of that requirement which was, on the contrary, deemed to be excluded, would not have marked any damage to the fight against crime; if anything, it would have marked an advantage insofar as it would have prevented or made much more difficult for innocent people to be taken in a context of criminalization and, above all, deprivation of liberty. We must record with real suffering that, at one point, the reason has come out: it has been said with absolute clarity, that it will remain documented in the recording of the activities of this Assembly, that excluding the formula that we were allowed to report has the precise meaning of leaving free the hands of the prosecutor so that the investigations can be indiscriminately addressed both to those who know with whom they are contracting a certain political-electoral agreement and, indeed, to subjects who ignore to interloquire with people who can belong to such a criminal context. In short, with the solution that is privileged here, which is contrary to the one voted unanimously in the House, we want to openly make burned land, include in the risk of issuing protective custody measures even subjects declared strangers, because then, at some point and after many years of imprisonment, we will know whether they knew or did not know. The fundamental point, in short, is that this abstention of the New Right Centre is nothing more than the expression of a sharing with regard to a text that has been voted in the Chamber of Deputies by all the political representations that are recognized there. It should not be said, therefore, that the New Right Centre is voting against anyone, since we are voting in absolute accordance with what has been voted on in the House of Deputies. In short, the text we share is the same as the text voted by those who today vote on a completely different text, which overturns the meaning of a choice around which the extraordinary result of a unanimous vote of 502 Members from 502 Members was achieved. We therefore believe that this political attitude and our abstention is, if anything, an incentive for the House of Deputies to be able to restore, at the time of the debate that will take place in that House, the text that had been fired. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi's NCDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u204	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today is an important day for our Parliament and this Senate. It is a day that the citizens of this country have been waiting for many years. For more than twenty years, from the sacrifice of the many who have fallen for this country, the possibility of having a rule that had an impact on the most important and key element that concerns the fight against the Mafia, what precisely characterizes the Mafia associations: the fact of having a constant and continuous relationship with politics. It is a relationship of synergy by virtue of which the mafias support politics and politics support the mafias. There is no doubt that this has happened, and they are historical facts now recognized both at the judicial level and at the level of historical reconstruction, even dating back over 150 years ago. The Mafia has always distinguished itself from other criminal phenomena for this precise characteristic: to seek and obtain the support of political forces, regardless of the color they had, with the sole objective of maintaining and controlling power. This rule strikes at the heart the founding moment of the pact between the mafia and politics: the moment of the electoral agreement, the moment when the mafias and politicians associated with them are weaker, the moment when the citizens have the destiny of both politics and the mafia. This is the moment when the mafias become more dangerous and aggressive, violating one of the central elements of democracy, the freedom of the vote, buying it, coaching it and orienting majorities, governments and votes of these classrooms of the last 150 years (it is not an hour thing, colleagues). When in this House, in order to oppose this rule, after having exhausted all the possible and imaginable quirks, reference is made to the lost unanimity, I say that it is a good thing to have lost it, because in that unanimity, if we firmly believe in what we do, we must know that unfortunately there are the votes of people who were not supposed to be in this Parliament: otherwise we would not be here to discuss the relationship between the mafia and politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the instinct, Mafia politicians, connected and flankers of the Mafia, have always concealed themselves to come out at the right time. The work done in the Commission and in this House is of great convergence between the various groups on a difficult text. The fight against the mafia, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed a difficult thing; it is not an easy thing: it is not the rules that are approved by the clamor and unanimously that can defeat the mafia; they are the rules that are difficult to apply and difficult to approve those that can defeat the mafias of this country. But today, here, and previously in the Commission, this has been done, with the contribution of so many, and so many different sensitivities, that have recognized the requests from citizens through the 5 Star Movement, in particular - I remember - that of a worsening of the penalty, to correct the unjustified discount that had been made to the House, and that of a reformulation of the concept of agreement between politician and mobster. The recognition of these aspects is a very important and extraordinary step in the fight against the Mafia. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the bill and we shall be greeting this day as one of the important days of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u207	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senator Giarrusso probably does not know what the Berlusconi Government has done in the fight against the mob. Go re-read what the National Anti-Mafia Attorney Pietro Grasso, President of the Senate, said today. I have always moved in this Parliament, even in the last parliamentary term - and Senator Lumia is witnessing this - with a view to seeking unity. The fight against the Mafia, in fact, is based on clear rules. The clarity of the rules and of the cases makes it possible to achieve the greatest results: I did not say so, but Rocco Chinnici. This led me to subscribe, in September last year, to Farefuture's appeal to amend the legislation. The present 416-b does not allow an effective fight against the Mafia, and the rule that you are going to vote (because we will abstain) presents the same problems as the current one. Senator De Cristofaro confuses with guarantee a position aimed at a specification of the case and a widening of the criminal intervention. It wasn't guarantee, Senator De Cristofaro. Amendment 1.5 was clear: it referred to anyone who accepted from those who participated in mob associations, with the awareness of subjective quality, the adoption of votes, and then followed the text approved by the Commission. Why was this specification necessary and still necessary? The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, in relation to the current text of Article 416-b, has repeatedly reiterated that it is not sufficient to be in relation to an associate. Therefore, if, by hypothesis, Senator Giarrusso makes an agreement with an associate, he is not condemned, even according to the new norm, and this is because that associate has no influence on the association, as he also ruled in joined sections the Court of Cassation. The specification of the subjective element then allowed to widen the area of the criminal penalty, as well as to qualify the case. That's it. If someone had given us a clear answer, suggesting a different assessment, we would have considered it. We were answered, probably because there was an underlying political agreement that could not be explained or not deciphered, which was ultraronean. First of all, ultroneo in Italian means spontaneous, and not further: only the leguleans use the term ultroneo to indicate something superfluous. But still taking advantage of this. [[Applause from the FI Group.]] Apart from that, therefore, I would like to know: if even an indication is superfluous, but allows to specify further and to avoid interpretations different from what is the will of the legislator, is it necessary to put it out or insert it? The Government, on the one hand, tells us that this was even wanted by the whole House of Deputies with that intention, even if the adverb could be misunderstanding (and for this reason I had modified and specified it), at the same time we are told that, being an intrinsic element to the dole, the insertion of that adverb would not be necessary. But it's got nothing to do with the goddamn thing! The dolo inserts to the activity that is specified later, in the modalities referred to in article 416-a, third paragraph, and on that we are all in agreement. So the choice of wanting to arrive at a solution that is not that of unity-unanimity is simply to reaffirm a misunderstanding rule, which maintains the same misunderstanding as today. 15.35 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). That white bracelet we both wore, Senator De Cristofaro, I don't need it anymore. I am fighting to ensure that the reference to utility can be introduced, but that it is of a different nature, because the Court of Cassation had already expressed itself in its judgment of 2013 on the desirability of including the reference to economic utility, which could be economically quantifiable. Then the other aspect was precisely to intervene on the well-defined issue, so as to allow, as we want, the policy to be free from any conditioning, and not only from the mafia and organized crime. But I do not accept the idea of the politician that in exchange for money he can ask for the vote! Let's imagine if this same choice is made by the politician against those who are part of organized crime. The lack of clarity in the norm, not explained, leads us to say that we must abstain, because it is the only way to say to the interpreter, a tomorrow, that in the Senate also the abstention vote wanted to say only one thing: an effective fight against those who exchange their political activity with the promise and commitment of money or availability. This is the logic that leads us to abstain, and there has been no verse of being able to induce the rapporteur and the Government to identify a wording even different from that we had suggested a formulation that allowed us to overcome the interpretative doubts of the jurisprudence, doubts that the current formulation confirms, because it repeats the same words of the current article 416-b. If a legislator intervenes for a change, he addresses and resolves all the misunderstandings. For this reason, I hope that not only the interpreter, but the House will be able to take into account that our abstention is the result of our willingness to cooperate and help make that rule more effective and, having not been answered, means that the only reason that has led a part of Parliament to vote against that amendment, which was intended to specify, is the desire to maintain a non-unanimous vote and an ephemeral distribution. This is because the fight against the Mafia is not done with misunderstandings that do not have the capacity to actually affect the criminal phenomenon that we must strike. We need to hit him. And beware, it says those who managed to obtain unanimously not only the rewording of Article 41- bis, but also the seizure of Mafia assets, also towards the heirs of those who were condemned for mafia and the elimination of the enjoyment of legal patronage for the mafia using those sums for the gratuitous defense of women victims of sexual violence. A series of indications and norms that give us the birthright in the fight against the mafia, which still needs to be pursued, and more effectively. Our intention was to make this rule more effective once it came into force. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u210	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this text. It is a text approved in the Justice Commission; it is a text discussed in the Justice Commission; it is a text which in the Justice Commission in the Senate has found a wide, wide-ranging convergence. This text in the Justice Commission in the Senate was shared by the vast majority of parliamentary groups going far beyond the majority and opposition ratio. I hope that the final vote in this House will achieve the same result. Mr President, finally, Article 416-b, which regulates the crime affecting the political-electoral mafia exchange, becomes a reality. It was included in our code, there was a prediction, but it was absolutely not an instrument to strike the political-mafia electoral collusion. It was on a dead track. He was there. For years and years he was asked to change it. A request which has been in society for decades but which did not find room in Parliament. It was in everyday life, in anti-mafia associations, in that extraordinary work of reality as Libera, as Fare futuro, as the anti-racket associations, as the best world of the enterprise finally asked us to reform. It was a request that came from the world of the culture of the law, of the operators, of the magistrates engaged day by day also at risk of their lives. It was a widespread and shared demand in society, but there was no reception in Parliament. Finally, now in the Senate you reach a great goal: you give an answer, the best possible. A complete response, a response that can finally not only bring Parliament and politics into line with society, but also offer a Parliament that guides society, which directs it, which puts it in a position, and together with the judiciary, to do an excellent job, a rigorous work, and a rule that is finally clear, readable and applicable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mafias are the first threat of our society. A pervasive threat. Finally, the minimalism and negationism that have characterized many territories of the Centre-North begin to be put into crisis. You open your eyes, you understand that this is a devastating threat. For over 150 years, mafias have been questioning the most basic civil rights. For a long time we had to confront that false representation of the mafias, which doesn't even touch the children. We know - instead - that children have always been threatened and killed by mafias. So it happened to the little shepherd of Corleone, when he witnessed the murder of an extraordinary trade unionist, Placido Rizzotto. Luciano Liggio and some doctors took that child and killed him in the small hospital in Corleone. So it happened with little Giuseppe Di Matteo, the child who was held, for tens of days, in a condition that we can not even call subhuman, but that we could understand only when we use language and memory to tell the concentration camps with the Shoah. That child, in the end, was dissolved in acid. So it happened a few days ago with the little Nico, Corigliano's child, who was also killed by the 'ndrangheta. The 'ndrangheta that lies in the great international recycling circuits and that does gold business affects a child when it is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, mafias devastate our economy. At this time of crisis they fit into the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, acquire strength and power and control pieces of the legal economy. Colleagues, this is the case with politics and with collusions in the institutions; they control the most delicate and sourced part of the democracy of representation: the electoral moment. That is why, just as civil society has been reacting for years, it engages and works in schools, on the territories and as well as the world of anti-racketing and advanced Confindustria acts and engages in interrupting the collusive relationship between the mafias and the economy, politics must also play its part. Today politics plays its part: late, but it does. Politics could not turn its back on the demand to create a real 416-b, a real struggle at the time of the gathering of the vote in the democracy of our territories. That is why this is a great moment: a real moment when politics plays its role well. Mr President, the text we are about to adopt is well done. The Democratic Party has taken on the responsibility, first in the Commission and - now - in this House, to make a proposal and on this one it has asked for the widest convergence to be achieved. We have never slammed the door in the face of any observation; we have never turned our backs on any contribution, even critical, to the norm. Mr President, it has been said that the issue of awareness is raised from this text. I don't mean it's a lie, but it's a serious mistake, because we all know that awareness is a constitutive part of the dole. Awareness is the fundamental pillar in order to be able to identify conduct as a crime and be able to strike it. That is why, if that is the subject, I invite those groups that use it to vote in favour of this text, because that is not the case: there is awareness and there is awareness as in all crimes. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, if, in our order, only for the crime referred to in Article 416-b, we had asked for the presence of awareness and another awareness. Imagine what hateful attitude we would have had, what a chaste attitude we would have taken. There is no serious crime, even that of particular social alarm, that does not foresee an awareness according to the general characteristics of the dole. This is the case in 416-b. Why should politics ask for something different, strange, unpublished, not provided for in our law, to the extent that it defines a new case and then leave it, yes, to the free will of jurisprudence and application? That is why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an issue which cannot justify a vote against. You cannot justify this because we have done serious, rigorous work and, in the Commission, shared justice. In the Chamber they made another choice: to the rigour of the technique it was preferred to find a more accommodating solution. But be careful, the work done by the Senate also helps the House and enables it to share with us a systemic choice that can really say to the country: Parliament has understood, Parliament makes a choice, Parliament chooses to systematically hit the most serious and devastating crime, that is, the time of collusion when we are in an electoral consultation. Mr President, we must move from the day after anti-mafia to the day before anti-mafia. In these days Riina has launched her appeal; in these days this theme returns. I think that, with the work we have done and with what we are in a position to do, another phase must be opened: we must all try together to make, even here in a shared way, free from the schemes of majority and opposition, a qualitative leap. You can do that. Think, colleagues, of the possibility of opening a session typical of the fight against the mafias, as is done by the law of stability, committing the two Chambers and Commissions here in the Senate to be able to examine all the texts presented by all the Groups and make sure that the country can know a modern and design season of anti-mafia the day before. And we can say to the mafias: your day has arrived, your end; we will attack you on all sides, on the cultural and social side, on the economic and financial side, but also on that of political-institutional collusions. We could improve the anti-mafia code and insert some rules that are still missing. Colleagues, we have not yet included in our code the punishableness of self-recycling. We should increase the duration of the penalties. In the last few months in all territories many mob bosses are back on the territory, again devastating civil rights, economics and the same politics. Mr President, we should apply 41- bis more rigorously and reopen the prisons in Pianosa and Asinara; we should improve the rules for the dissolution of municipalities infiltrated by the mafia. I mean, we should do a lot of things. Then it is good that these things are done systematically, having the time to do them, a time that is limited, committing the Anti-Mafia Commission, the Chamber and Senate Justice Commissions and the Assemblies and asking for a confrontation with the Government that has put forward a modern proposal on the topic of the fight against the Mafias with that committee that has worked in support of the choices of this Government. It is a mature phase; we are ready to accept this challenge, indeed we propose it. We believe that we have done a good job, a serious and shared work that can be unanimously welcomed by Parliament. We believe that, the Democratic Party wants this result and will vote yes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u213	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u214	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill No 948 composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 238 Favorable 168 Contrari 4 Absent 66]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, SCPI, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Falanga.]] Thus, draft laws nos. 200, 688, 887 and 957.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u217	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have already announced my speech. I listened carefully to the explanations of vote... But your speech should take place at the end of the session, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Aren't we at the end of the session, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. The session is continuing. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I shall therefore await the end of the sitting. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u218	That's how it was agreed, and that's how it has to go.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u219	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1214. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. 15,56 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine myself to... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u221	Colleagues, let us reorganize the House after the part of the sitting devoted to the previous measure: I would ask you to be silent or to leave so that Senator Pagliari can carry out the report. The government is present, therefore, Senator Pagliari, try to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u222	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, I will present a written report which contains a summary of all the measures included in the thousand-pronged decree, which - as is well known - deals essentially with all matters of state interest. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I believe that we must add only one consideration, if we want to be trivial, but that I think it is necessary to repeat every time: the thousand-pronged decree is neither the victory of the rule of law nor the victory of the State, because it is the sign of inefficiencies, if not of the failure of a system. Having said that, I would like to list the amendments approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the clarification... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u223	Colleagues, I would ask you to be silent, because the rapporteur cannot overshadow the buzz of the report. Anyone who has to speak can sit outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u224	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to list the amendments adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the clarification that the opinions of the Committee on Budgets are still lacking, at least for some of them, so there may be some changes to this list, linked to any negative opinions of the Committee on Budgets, in particular to the opinions that are opposed under Article 81 of the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved the following amendments: 1.9 (text 2), 1.13 (text 2), 1.14 (text 2). 1,400, 1,20, 1,21, 1.28 (text 2), 1,500, 1,300, Coord.1, 2.4 (text corrected), 2.5 (text 2), 2.0.100, 3.8 (text 2), 4.1 (text 2), 4.3, 4.6 (text 2), 4.34, 4,48 (text 3), 4.49 (text 3), 4.0.2, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10 (text corrected), 6.2, 6.14, 7.2, 7.8, 7.18 (text 2), 7.19 (text 2), 8.18, 8.19, 8.22 (text 2), 8.23 (text 2), 8.24 (text 2), 8.25 (text 2), 9.1 (text 2), 9.24, 9.67 (text 2), 8.0.1 (text 2), 9.72, 9.77 (text 2), 10.100, 10.20, 11.1 (text 2) and 11.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u225	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, all citizens, the thousand-pronged decree is of marginal interest to the agricultural world, but two extensions are interesting for the contents underlying them. The first concerns Article 4 of Decree No 171 of 2008, which regulates the production of the buffalo mozzarella bell DOC. The provision provides for a clear separation of the production lines of mozzarella with that of other types of cheese. As you know, mozzarella can be produced with buffalo milk and/or cow's milk. Of course it is much more required than buffalo, but there is a problem: the buffalo makes little milk compared to a cow, about half, so the production costs of a buffalo mozzarella are about double. You immediately understand that the meaning of the 2008 device is to prevent fraud, obviously the result of involuntary errors: some forgotten open hose, so the cow's milk mixes with that buffalo (things that can happen). Only that the farmers of Campania are honest - and here I emphasize it: the farmers of Campania are honest - and ask loudly not only the application of this device, but the complete traceability of milk and therefore mozzarella, in order to guarantee the buyers the quality of the product, which translates into the recognition of their work and which benefits the whole system of Italy. I would point out that the share of mozzarella's exports to Europe is constantly increasing, not least because of the stagnation of Italian consumption, and therefore we could ask Europe to clarify and protect our products. On the other hand, as producers face no technical and bureaucratic difficulties, which are easily overcome, the implementation of the scheme is extended by one year. I remember that the decree-law is from 2008 and that, after five years, you are not able to enforce a measure. What credibility do you have, if you do not understand that our future goes through the seriousness of the operators, the quality of the products and the confidence of the buyers? On the basis of this reflection, I hope that the extension will not be granted, as I requested with an amendment to my first signature. The second extension that I would like to deal with concerns the regulation of compulsory revision of agricultural machinery, which is extended to 1 January 2015. At a quick reading it seems a distortion, it would appear that the rule does not want to protect the safety of operators and of all of us, considering that they are often vehicles circulating on our roads. The exact opposite is true, and in order to make you understand the harassment that farmers are already subjected to, I will give you a brief summary of the controls to which they are subject. Since 2009, agricultural machinery that is placed on the market must comply with the requirements of European directives, No 37 of 2003 and No 42 of 2006, transposed by Legislative Decree No 17 of 2010. The single safety text (Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008) also requires all equipment made available to workers to comply with the above mentioned Community Directives and therefore with the Type Approval Directive and the Machinery Directive. For equipment prior to 2009, the single text provides that they must be adapted and conformed to the characteristics set out in Annex 5 to the single text, which require compliance with as many as four guidelines already issued by ISPESL/INAIL covering chassis, driver retention systems, tractors and periodic monitoring of maintenance status. But it is not over here: in fact, already today the provincial ASLs control the safety of agricultural machinery. This is also the subject of study in the courses to obtain the certificate of responsibility of the prevention and protection service, and I recall that since 1 January this year all agricultural enterprises are obliged to provide and update periodically the risk assessment document. As you can see, Madam President, there are already enough rules and it would be enough to comply with those that are there to ensure a high level of safety. I hope that this year of extension will allow this measure to be called into question and that it will be abolished in order to prevent simplification from being an empty word that we fill every day with. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u227	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u228	Madam President, among the many points in this decree-law I would like to focus on Article 1 (9), which deals with the unfortunate issue of the university's organic points and I will now explain why I call it unpleasant. As we all know, in 2013 the government set a turnover limit and therefore to the university's recruitment faculties to the extent of 20% at national level. This means that, overall, every five retired professors can only hire one. We have already spoken several times in Parliament to denounce the fact that this rule is absolutely penalising, it causes the raising of the average age in universities and, above all, the brain drain, in fact preventing young researchers from entering the university system. Well, we have gone even further here, because if 20% is true at national level, then there is the problem of how to distribute assumptions between individual universities. The Ministry then comes into play, which with Ministerial Decree No. 713 of September last year, applying a decree-anticipating law, has established which is the division of the organic points and therefore in fact of the places of professor among all the universities, generating what everyone has defined as an authentic "papocchio". In essence, many of the universities considered virtuous - i.e. that they had parameters of indebtedness and staff expenditure for which they were considered virtuous by Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2012 - were inexplicably seen to reduce the share of organic points compared to the national average. Think that there are some universities that, while respecting the parameters, have received a share of organic points equal to a percentage of 3-5 percent of terminations from the service, so every 15-20 professors who retire such universities can take only one. This happened because the devil hides in detail. Unfortunately, in Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2012 there is a magical word that says that virtuous universities can assume up to a certain percentage. Thus the Ministry, in the person of Minister Carrozza, who signed that decree aware of the fact that it would generate this scandalous situation, did not want to face it. This becomes even more obnoxious considering that many of these universities are located in the South and have a very low school tax system; that is precisely why they are considered virtuous. Given, in fact, that staff expenditure is not compressible, so if you lower tuition fees, they are much easier to pass this parameter. Hence, the meritorious criterion, which was the basis of the aforementioned decree, has come to be completely frustrated. Well, I would like to point out that the 5 Star Movement first gathered in this Parliament the cry of sorrow that came from these universities that, although they had low school taxation, they saw reduced staff allocations. We have tabled an amendment and an agenda to this so-called thousand-prorogation decree which intervenes on Article 1 (9), precisely in order to heal this hallucinating situation that has arisen, which, in fact, goes against the right to study of students of many universities, many of which are located in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u229	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u230	Madam President, I begin by saying that the measure before us is absolutely a disgrace. They extend things that have not been done; the laws have been made, but the implementing decree has not been made, as is often the case. Let's go on with things that really don't make any sense. I read some of them in the text of the decree. Article 1 (10) extends the ceiling on the salaries of the members of the Boards of Directors. The remuneration of board members and similar bodies since 2010 had to be reduced by 10 percent. Of course, we continue from year to year because the implementing decree is not made, and therefore this measure cannot be applied. The people who have to make the implementing decrees have not done their job, but they are quiet and serene and nothing happens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We then have Article 2 (2) which extends a Commissioner who comes into operation in 2003 for the earthquake that occurred in 1980. I avoided investigating from 1980 to 2003 how many Commissioners there have been and how much money has been spent. But this Commissioner comes in to solve the problems and close the infrastructure work. He's been there for 11 years, he hasn't closed them yet, and we still pay him to stay there? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At least we should change it, but let's go check out what's happened over the last 11 years. Also because it's another 100,000 euros thrown in there. There is also the reorganization of prefectures that have been waiting to be reorganised since 2006, because - I quote - the completion of additional interventions requires technical times that go beyond the current financial year's expiry. This is the situation since 2006 and it is 2014. Again, it extends for another year, waiting for someone to realize that it is time to reorganise them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We then have the extension for taxis and rentals. Here too there are interests behind them because we are talking about things that are always very special. However, it would be time for someone to face them and take responsibility for fixing all the provisions governing the abuse of the taxi service and the rental service with driver. All of you who are in Rome know very well how many abusive taxis there are. Here too, however, we continue from year to year, and no one does anything. Finally, let's throw away, money year after year for Italy's work that we continue from year to year to extend without putting any hand. Another 13 million euros wasted. This burden is covered by a reduction in the Social Fund for Employment and Training, which does not seem to me to be the best, given the Italian situation. In addition to the waste of money and people who don't do their jobs, we also find security problems. In article 3, paragraph 2, we extend the use of sworn guards on ships, even in the absence of a qualifying course, which means that these people, without being prepared, will go armed to defend our ships. That sounds crazy, but the lives at risk aren't yours, so let's get on with it, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We continue, then, always at the risk of the lives of those who attend them, the terms for cable cars: instead of two years, the technical life of these cable cars passes to four years, because so no one has to do the checks and we are in place; if then something happens it is never the fault of anyone. There is, then, the last extension, always at the risk of life, of the legislation on fire, which has obviously been done by you and, even if it is incomprehensible, once you have written it, at least implement it; instead, it is still being extended and when people die in the fires you do not tell us that something could not be done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u231	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will recall, the Council of Ministers which approved the thousand-pronge at that time also withdrew, during the proceedings in Parliament, the decree-law'save Rome' for - I quote from the press conference - 'the heterogeneity of the rules'. What happened with that decree-law shows, in fact, that in our country it is essential to return to the legislative system. On that occasion, the Council of Ministers stressed that this matter had been a further stimulus to put an end to the reordering of the legislative process, in order to avoid the situations created in this jam - so the President of the Council of Ministers had then expressed himself - at the end of the year. In order to avoid this congestion, since 1 January, the decree has been in force, a thousand extensions, which differs about sixty terms due on 31 December last, ranging from evictions for the disadvantaged categories, to the refinancing of the social card, to the possibility for the flood victims of Sardinia to pay the suspended taxes without application of sanctions and interest between 24 January and 17 February 2014. As I said, the suspension was extended until next June 30 for the disadvantaged categories of the measures for the release of real estate for finite lease, for those taxpayers with annual income less than 21.000 euros and resident in municipalities capitals of high density Province. Among the other extensions, it slips to 30 June 2014 the deadline to entrust the interventions on school buildings, in particular for the custody of the reclamation interventions of the schools where asbestos was found. As of 28 February 2014, it is the extension of the time limits for simplified procedures in the reorganisation of the Ministries, starting from the Directorates-General and the Departments, as well as the offices of direct collaboration of the Ministers. This is what we have been discussing and we shall be discussing in the course of the examination of the amendments. To 30 June 2014 the postponement of the decree has been prolonged in order to define the modalities of recruitment in the universities and to define the indicators to be used for the contraction of forms of indebtedness by the universities. As of 31 December 2014, the validity of the rankings for recruitment in the public administration is extended; and again, the extension of the 10 per cent cut of the fees (the "gettons" paid by public administrations and independent authorities for participation in collegial bodies and boards of directors; the extension of the update to the rate of inflation of airport charges; the adjustment of the fleet of self-schools; water saving courses; the rental with driver. All this jam makes clear the need not only, as President Letta suggested, to proceed without delay to the reordering of the legislative process, but also to put our public administration's hand because the problem is there. Some of our amendments have been concentrated on this in the Commission. On each of these points we have proposed options for amendment and, in particular, on the block set out in Article 1, because it is clear that the subject of the organisation and operation of public administrations is central even when shortcuts are proposed. I quote paragraph 7 of Article 1 in which we recognize the possibility of using, instead of the decree of the President of the Republic, the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, precisely to organize the Ministries and to bring the changes, which are considered appropriate, to the regulations of organization of offices of direct collaboration of Ministers. This is a very questionable forecast, in our view, but I would stress that it is right here to begin, even when Article 3 deals with the extension of the terms of competence of the Ministry of the Interior and when the prefect intervenes with substitute powers for the approval of the forecast budget of the local authorities, if the accounting document has not been approved by that agency in the terms. To put our hands on and try to reorder the matter of public administration with a slightly more timely and more rigorous approach is an opportunity and a necessity that we will try to develop and whose opportunity we will try to make clear in the debate of the amendments we have tabled. [[Applause from Senators Della Vedova and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u233	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be worth saying in the beginning that, as a maxim says, there is nothing more definitive than what is provisional, and the thousand-pronge seems to take this path and interpret it in the most exhaustive way. In fact, this is a measure, which has become accustomed to seeing the recurrence year by year, which contains a considerable uneven amount of issues for which Parliament is being asked to extend the deadlines or postpone them. We cannot speak in absolute good or bad about something so different both in the content and in the reasons that then prompt us to ask for a change in the deadlines. The measure itself should be split up in so many other individual measures. That's what I'd rather focus on. There are things that we certainly cannot share, not so much on the subject, but on the way not to come after so many years to pose a decisive stake. Clearly, this is a diseducational message. Continuing to move the deadline forward, each time granting new deadlines, without any responsibility for those who have failed, in our opinion has the effect of returning with the same problems to the following year. We have said this on a number of occasions in the Commissions which have given the Commission their views on the matter. I quote, for example, the case of buffalo mozzarella for which there have been disciplines defined for several years. The product is very qualified and is on sale on the market, but, to date, the requirements for which the specifications define the product at the top are not respected. It is clear that, if we approach even on time - I think of that of Expo - where the theme is that of food and we do so with this kind of credibility, we will hardly be able to give the image of a country that has put itself on the right path after so many years of undoing. I am also thinking of many other aspects that are even more striking, such as the extension of the police agencies or the earthquake of Irpinia for which everything is renewed, once again, in the structure and organization. and perhaps it would be also the case that these earthquake victims were definitely sure that they were no longer in a situation of earthquakes; and perhaps it would also be the case for the rest of the country to know that these then do not become chasms in which hundreds of millions of euros are swallowed for the sole purpose of keeping alive something that generates not work, but customers. The thousandprorogation decree, however, is also an opportunity that the Government must not waste in order to remedy actions that have produced non-positive effects. I would like to take the example of the new taxation introduced into the electronic cigarette market, which is even offering jobs to many tens of thousands of people, which has created an even more extensive incentive, which also has the ability to safeguard health (not to be overlooked) and which, above all, is creating new opportunities when the economy seems to mark the step backwards even more clearly. On the other hand, it has simply happened that the government, whose actions are certainly not free from the pressure of lobbyists who want to preserve the monopoly in the tobacco market, has issued rules that are even inconsistent with reality. The consequences of all this are that the state does not collect from the monopolies as much as it should, the market is shutting down, consumers are moved to supply themselves in an alternative way and a new entrepreneurship is suffocated in the cradle that could instead give a lot of hope. That is why the thousand-pronged decree, also because the Commission has accepted an amendment that we have proposed (in this regard we invite the other political forces to subscribe to it), allows the Government to postpone the deadlines, thus giving this sector the opportunity to sit down at the table and coordinate interventions with the Monopolies and the Ministry of Finance, so that the action that at this moment appears as vexatory can, on the contrary, be virtuous and able to give the market new opportunities for growth, safeguarding the health of citizens and differing from logics that tend to preserve the monopoly where it exists. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We therefore say to the Government that more courage was needed, that it should have left behind a thousand-pronged decree traditionally understood as an instrument aimed at postponing unsolved problems and instead to use this opportunity to remedy what has now become a neglect of our legislative system: to operate through decrees, therefore to issue emergency measures that then obviously need immediate corrections because the citizens immediately understand that what the legislator often and willingly puts to fruit is inconsistent with the reality lived daily. Unfortunately, on the other hand, the measure before us is once again a reshuffling of so many individual realities faced with actions that we do not share, even if we detect some glimpse of common sense. We therefore need to examine interventions one by one. We will do so and we will analyse the amendments tabled. Of course, then, we will not shy away from the responsibility, which always distinguishes us, to say no to everything that represents new waste carried out simply because of the government's inability to manage the public machine and to solve problems in particular. Certainly then we will agree to our consent where this thousand-pronged decree contains initiatives aimed at healing mistakes that have happened and in order to which the Government intends to comply in a providential way with an industrious repentance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u235	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express an uneasiness, which I hope will be shared by many of you, of us: the uneasiness of those who wish to carry out the function to which we have been called and for which we have been chosen effectively, efficiently and, above all, transparently. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for a long time. It would perhaps be preferable, out of respect and almost as a sign of the desire for transparency towards Parliament, for measures such as the one we are called upon to examine today to be presented with their real name and not with other indications and expressions, which, moreover, are confused and imaginative in the title; it would therefore be appropriate for them to be called simply for what they are: thousandprorogues. A thousand! We sincerely thought that we had now been freed from this bad habit, typical of the First Republic - we have said so many times - to submit to the House (always with a cadence characterized by disturbing delay and haste, always at the last moment and always in a state - sensually side - confused, fruit of as many a thousand pressures, not always clear) a set, a coacervo of provisions that all appear under one hat, but that collect in a uneven way and disintegrated the demands and sometimes the most disparate appetites, that sometimes - many times - compensate delays and missed decisions of the Government or that correct errors (it is said incidentally: how many errors since politics is entrusted to the exclusive care of technicians!), which insert adjustments out of maximum time and, worse, satisfy requirements that do not obey general interests but impulses and stimuli, as they say, particular. The result is a disturbing way of lawmaking, a disintegrating way, which does not allow a punctual analysis, which prevents us senators - to us parliamentarians in general: this applies to the Upper House as well as to the Lower House - from carrying out our work at best, compulsive as we are by the haste and unevenness of the contents, which does not honour, moreover, a government that presents itself as new also in the method and that distances us from the good practices of the legislative activity. How do you do your work well when you have to deal with the most disparate issues, ranging from recruitment, organisation and operation of the public administration, to the operations of removal of the wreck of the Costa Concordia ship to the Island of Giglio, from training courses for water rescue personnel, to the possible use of security guards in anti-piracy service on ships? On this last point, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make one point: is it possible for the Italian Government to rely solely on bureaucrats and lawyers, abdicating to its capacity for international political initiative, in dealing with such a delicate and important crisis as the one between Italy and India on the case of the Maròs? It is possible that, two years after that 15 February in which the incident occurred in front of the Indian coasts, for which today Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone risk even a trial before a special court and the application of the death penalty, Italy still fails to move internationally, with authority, with due competence and determination, the gravity of the violations committed by India, which, among other things, denies the immunity of function to our military in regular anti-piracy service, moreover in non-territorial waters and under Italian jurisdiction, because on a ship that was flying the Italian flag? The problem of government credibility, the lack of capacity and representative force in international fora is clear. But how is it possible - in order to return to medias res, as far as this can be said in such a complicated measure to be defined in its main themes - that we still have to, in 2014, when we are talking about major reforms, electoral and institutional, of reform of Title V of the Constitution and the abolition of the Senate, to navigate on sight between pieces of measures, to which we are added the DOP brand of the bell bufala mozzarella, the revision of agricultural machinery and then again the issues related to health, education, social policies, the environment, tourism, communications, local public services, evictions. I understand that the common denominator of all these issues is the extension, but this is not enough to give our work as parliamentarians the dignity of homogeneous and organic work. And here I have to open another engraved, on the substance, because in the folds of norms that are necessary at first sight and however harmless are hidden pitfalls that can have serious economic consequences. I refer in particular to the extension to 30 June 2014 of the deadline for the execution of the measures for the rental of buildings used for residential use, in favour - in deserving favour - of particular social categories, i.e. conductors with annual gross household income of less than 27,000 euros, in some municipalities with high housing voltage. In fact, as indicated in the report of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of 20 September 2007 on the number of evictions blocked, on the basis of the provision at the time in force, last extended, divided by the 103 prefectures, the postponement of executions essentially affects only some municipalities. But the negative psychological effect on the entire area of housing rentals, resulting from a general extension of evictions, suggests that we limit the territorial extension of deferment to municipalities with a population of more than one million inhabitants. I would like to remind you, even if all Italians know this and remember it very well (because they have a very fresh memory of the expiry of the so-called mini-IMU, that is, the tax that the Letta Government had said it wanted to definitively overcome), that the building sector is literally on its knees; that the crisis of construction and in general of real estate transactions weighs in a devastating way on the increasing figure of unemployment, just when all political forces in words indicate the loss or lack of work as the most dramatically current problem; that, moreover, the so-called mini-IMU is the tail of a tax that will not disappear, but will change only name, transforming itself into TASI, TARI or IUC (there are many denominations given in this path of growth of the tax and decrease of the credibility of the government activity). These taxes will weigh on the owners, decreasing even more the value of the real estate and therefore the data of the wealth and savings of the Italians, but they will also weigh on the tenants. For our part, there must be a great deal of attention not to put further pressure on those who work in the building world. The risk, otherwise, is to depress even more a possible flywheel of recovery of Italy, when the whole of Europe begins to grow again. And vexation also passes through small but important measures, such as those contained in the thousandprorogues decree. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot deny my deep uneasiness with regard to the old method, which is wrong and in any case technically insidious and unrespectful of Parliament for a container measure (which we have said so many times that we want to amend, blocking its insane race towards a poorly coordinated and orderly management of problems which are very important). I repeat that I cannot deny my deep discomfort with regard to this way of law-making, which denies all good intentions and all the promises of renewal of a Government which, once again, acts - as unfortunately is now clear to all - in the ways and forms of the so depraved Governments of the First Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u237	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u238	Madam President, I will try to have a somewhat more secular approach to this type of measure, also because of a parliamentary experience which now confirms to me that, with any kind of government, with any political majority and for whatever initiative you want to take, at the end of the year you are always forced to issue a thousand-pronged measure. Some people may be annoyed by this type of measure, but it is clear that behind many extension initiatives there is also the discomfort that would be caused to many categories of citizens if these extensions were not granted. It is also clear that in this provision small cunnings are sometimes lurking: it is up to us to intercept them. In this context, we can say that this year the draft law (which stems from the previous division of a measure of greater consistency, then divided into two tranches) has rigidly framed, with regard to extensions, only the activity of deferment of time limits of rules in expiration, without therefore introducing new provisions of this type. We could ask, not the Presidency, but ourselves and the Government to be clearer in indicating the proposals: there is no clear indication to each paragraph of the subject of the extension. So, there is a difficulty in approaching this type of text. The replacement of extensions with simplification in many cases would certainly be a way of preventing such extensions from having any real effect or, worse still, from being re-presented the following year. I repeat that for 20 years I have been facing this type of task annually, whatever the government is in office. They are no longer methods that we can define as the First Republic, but simply as the Republic, as used to say so vulgarly when we wanted to indicate something confused. They are routine measures and someone also claims pathology, and that is true. They are measures of miscellanea, and it is also absolutely true, but the very name of the decree says so. Very often, however, these are useful measures: as I said just now, useful above all not to create inconveniences to the citizens and they are also frequently the signal of some inefficiencies of the apparatus of government, but not of course attributable to those who provisionally govern or to those who are temporarily at the head of a Dicastery, but to the structure, a bureaucracy that often does not find the reasons or the roads to get to the definition of some practices. Therefore, I believe that, with a careful and timely examination of the text of the amendments, we will be able to better understand and influence individual measures with a very simple and practical approach, much less ideological than anyone wants to face. Of course, some aspects at first sight may seem strange, and I am referring to extensions of rankings and police stations. In reality, however, it is understood that these are extensions of Commissioners from the non-operational point of view, but of reporting. It should therefore be understood why the ministries responsible for this closure of the practices have left out the urgency in defining them and, in some cases, have even facilitated the maintenance in office of some managers. But this, as well as being part of our competence and faculty of inspection union, certainly cannot cause harm to users and citizens. I would like to mention, for example, a historic extension which has been addressed recently, year after year, by this Parliament, which is that of Legislative Decree No 626 implementing a Community directive which required some compliance with the structure of Italian companies, sized on the structure of the Franco-German ones. It imposed excessive obligations on Italian entrepreneurs. Those extensions, therefore, were certainly not a laxity or a favoritism, but the taking of the act of a necessity of adaptation that required much longer times than could be done in other European realities. And the extension of fire in tourist establishments has been mentioned. Very often these extensions - I repeat - are necessary because the legislation is too cumbersome, and we do everything we can to make it even heavier and more restrictive and we do not adopt simplifications. We have also included a simplification provision in these extensions. It will be up to us to ensure that the relevant governments and public structures can actually operate in these terms. Simplification is one of the actions that the citizens of our country expect most; one of those roads that they expect to be practiced with care, so we do well to include such constraints. We would do even better to ensure that they are respected and that they really respond to that. Therefore, with the examination of the amendments we will continue the exegesis of this text. Of course, many may even more believe that it is an overly cumbersome text, often intended to deal with excessively analytical aspects, but this is in the need of an extremely complex public structure such as ours, which precisely must be the subject of our efforts to ensure that this happens less and less. However, let us get out of our heads that with today's criticism we can eliminate a thousandprorogations of tomorrow. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u239	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Liceo Classico (classical Lyceum) Mario Rapisardi in Paternò, in the province of Catania. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u240	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u241	Madam President, today we are talking about this measure which contains extensions: no more extensions, no more! We need to reform an entire state: do not let us destroy it to such an extent that we have to collect the pieces. I was a young man, Madam President, when the first time I had the experience of the milleproroghe: I liked it; I needed it because a deadline was moved to me. In that case that extension was necessary because an administration delayed providing operators in that sector with the right indications. If we then go and analyse the measure in all its facets, then all the rules that go to extend something, here is that everything is based on a principle, namely that the extension is evidence of the insufficient action of the State. So, I wonder: is the state us, or rather, can it be us? In fact, the 5 Star Movement has allowed citizens to say theirs directly in relation to the electoral law. We can do it, you can do it, because the state is us, indeed, it can be us. The electoral law is fundamental to us, but the Renzusconi cannot be heard at all, President. Sometimes, however, some of these extensions, in addition to containing measures of a purely administrative nature that may also be used in some cases to prevent events that citizens can cause some shortcomings (but let us always remember that the extension is due precisely to an insufficiency of the administrative-burocratic state machine), also involve expenses. For example, I refer to the extension of the financing to the carriage.. pardon, to Italia Lavoro SpA. Well, this Italy Labor SpA should help the Ministry of Labour to make a positive contribution to the employment of Italy, but it seems to me that in this period, indeed, for quite a few years, unemployment has grown. So we're gonna put this company in line a little bit? So we tried, for what we could, to contribute with an agenda presented by our Group to better address the issue, if we really want to keep this Italia Lavoro SpA up, even if honestly that money I would give them again - I say again - because they have been removed for years now - to our employment centers, to our structure that should again - I repeat, I do not use the adverb - help to meet the demand and the offer of work: that is, on the agenda we said that the payment of resources made on a six-monthly basis to Italia Lavoro SpA is subject to the verification of the effectiveness of the projects entrusted to the company Italia Lavoro SpA. In Italy we must also enter into the perspective that if you work and produce continue to work, otherwise stop. We can no longer have structures that lead to nothing. Madam President, I believe that the 5 Star Movement in these ten months is offering so much to our country, so welcome it, make it yours to resurrect Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u242	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u243	Madam President, as has been said several times, the ideal situation would be that an instrument such as the thousand-pronge decree should never be necessary, because it is a map of inefficiencies of various kinds, mainly of the bureaucracy of the state that fails to complete certain reform procedures, ambitious procedures (maybe too much), not always drawn perfectly, which presume to make decisive and radical changes when there are no instruments and sometimes even the will. The extension decree, usually written by officials themselves who have not been able to implement those reforms according to Parliament's will, at least formally, to extend certain deadlines, then intervenes. It is often a question of extending time limits which have already been extended in the past. This aspect highlights the inefficiency of certain bureaucratic structures that offer great resistance to change, being much easier to move forward as you always have gone: sometimes they protect certain interests, sometimes it is simple inefficiency, still others it is impossible to realize certain things, because it is not enough to write a purpose in the Official Journal through the approval of a law or a decree so that it becomes possible or even desirable. Another aspect that is very often found in the decrees milleproroghe is, precisely, the extension of the effective date, that is to say the delay of the beginning of the operativity of a norm that, from the beginning, seems not sensible, a norm made to give a signal. Basically, to give a signal to a particular sector, we make a beautiful norm, sometimes volety, sometimes simply harmful, most of the times bureaucratic in itself and aimed at protecting various needs (from health to the fight against crime and corruption), so we approve a perfectly useless norm that adds cards, and often there is the common sense of delaying its entry into force or, better, in technical terms, effectiveness. The ideal would be to repeal the rule, if it is wrong, but since the norm was made to give a signal to repeal it would mean to give a signal opposite to what it intended to give, and then you leave the norm alive, but you try to get it into force as late as possible, for example in 2012; then, near the deadline it moves to 2013, then to 2014 and so on. The ideal - what we should do - would be not to give signals, but to do the things that are needed. Do you need a rule? We should approve it, but it must really serve, not only to fill a title, maybe to have a beautiful decree or a law with the name of an important political exponent, many times a minister, who so has the law with his name: the law Guy resolves, sin that it is impossible or useless or harmful, and then delays its entry into force. Then there is another case, which is positive, when a law envisaged for a short period, perhaps on the basis of a momentary need, turns out to be a positive experience, and then it is rightly believed to prolong its effectiveness: for example, a law that has worked in the past two years we want it to have effects also in 2014, for which it is included in the decree extensions. Of course, the ideal would be to make a long-term law from the outset, but I find that there is nothing scandalous about having trial periods after which it is found that a rule works. Another of the causes that fill the thousand-pronged decrees is the culture of emergency, which in our country has very ancient roots, so the concrete situations that come to determine can hardly ever be resolved, by definition, with the instruments that already exist. Is there a particular case? We have all sorts of structures, departments, agencies; we have territorial authorities, in turn with their agencies, their participants and so on. However, if there is a very important event, it is necessary to appoint the Commissioner or create a new structure; obviously the old structures do not work. As there is an emergency, this Commissioner is given special powers, which are often exaggerated, sometimes contrary to constitutional principles and which, most of the time, empty the elected bodies. But - it is said - it is an emergency, we do it only for three months, because there has been the earthquake, maybe a cruise ship has stranded in front of our beautiful island, there has been an unexpected bad weather, because it is completely unexpected that sometimes snow maybe more than usual, that sometimes it rains less than usual! This is completely unexpected, and then provisional measures are only approved for three months; then the three months become six months, become a year, then two years or four years. One of the most illegible norms of this decree - in the sense that it is very difficult to understand where it goes - provides for the extension to even four years of an absolute emergency situation concerning the surface waters of a beautiful region of our country: an emergency so absolute that in the original norm there was even the express prohibition of extension. Therefore this discipline was established in six months with express prohibition of extension: from six months then it has passed to one year, from one year to three and now with this measure we move to four or five, I do not remember well. Of course, however, in these cases, it is necessary to write "by way of derogation from the paragraph" where the prohibition of extension was provided for. Therefore the date 2012 becomes 2016, and in addition it must be specified that it is necessary to derogate from the paragraph where the prohibition of extension was previewed. A great father of democracy refused to accept the logic of the emergency: he was the governor of Virginia at the time when, in 1812, there was the war between the newly-born United States of America, which arose for forty years, and England, after the War of Independence. They proposed to him to approve emergency laws, because - it was said - there was war and then one could not govern Virginia as if it were a period of peace. He refused to say that, if in difficult times the principles of the Constitution of that State need to be violated, it means admitting that democratic and constitutional structures do not work. I think we should remember this great lesson of Thomas Jefferson, then governor of Virginia, who did not by chance want to remember his role and not to have been subsequently President of the United States or to have written the Declaration of Independence. If we really believe in democracy, to which, especially in these times, very often attachment fails, we must bear in mind that the emergency is simply the ordinary. In fact, since every year we have so many extensions - it is said a thousand, maybe they will be 200-300 - for as many emergencies, then there is no emergency: it means that this is the ordinary. If the emergency becomes ordinary, we must treat it with ordinary instruments. If ordinary instruments do not work, we must reform them. But we must be able to overcome this phase of management of what is actually ordinary with emergency tools, also because these allow us to give rise to abuses and situations that, as a temporary, become definitive, that do not comply with laws and rules, do not give transparency as many silent rules that refer to other mute rules, and proceed with a better perspective. I believe that these things can be said to the citizens. You can say that you are wrong and then you make corrections. You can do real things and not give the signal: you can do the things you need and not the things you think stupid citizens appreciate. Citizens appreciate the concrete results, not the signals. If we move forward in a direction of this kind we can one day do without the thousand-pronged decree and make true reforms that serve the country in a stable way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u244	We hope so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u245	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u246	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I believe that Mr D'Ali is right when he calls us back to a principle of reality. This is a routine measure, a measure that does not belong to the culture of the First or Second Republic. It is the effect, and certainly the spy of a difficulty, of an anomaly to be solved, the result of an excess of legification, clearly indicates a need for simplification and I believe on many issues also recalls the need for unique texts. So, precisely in response to this principle of reality, I found some destructive tones excessive, which hurt the institutions. Frankly, one thing is the legitimate criticism that comes from the opposition benches in an absolutely correct spirit of democratic dialectic. Another thing is to define, as I have heard from my colleague Mr Bulgarelli, a shame of this decree. At the same time, I find the adjective "quiet" excessive, referring to the way of law-making, used by my colleague Bernini. I would urge everyone, from this point of view, to put things back in place. This is the one thousand-pronged decree: the Group of the Democratic Party has tabled very few amendments, precisely to respect the spirit of the decree-law and the commitments and appeals of the President of the Republic a few weeks ago. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to two issues. The first is in the article, article 3, paragraph 1, which also provides for the extension to 2014 of the norms for the lack of approval of the budget, which entrust to the prefect, and no longer to the CORECO, who no longer exist, the tasks concerning the calls to municipal councils if they do not provide to fulfill their obligations. On this point I stress to the Government, because the question of preventive budgets and of the lack of approval can clearly be a spy and a signal of economic and financial difficulties of the Municipalities, the theme of an overall rewriting of the Single text on local authorities, in particular on the issues of the municipalities in anticipation and those in failure. This is a case which today affects a few dozen municipalities, but, as is evident from the reading of newspapers and the latest decisions of the Court of Auditors, it could affect, from here to a few weeks, large urban centres. From this point of view, I believe that the government should pay more attention to the need to rewrite these aspects of the single text. It's very important to us. Finally, I would like to mention an amendment that I tabled with my colleagues Mr De Monte and Mr Lo Moro, also signed in the Commission by my colleague Mr Malan, on the question of the extension to 30 June 2014 of the obligation for small municipalities to use the single purchasing power station: this would prevent a blockage in the activity of small municipalities in this first half of the year. By the way, I remember that in 2014 over 4,000 municipalities will vote, most of them under 5,000 inhabitants. It was necessary to introduce this extension, because in the Delrio decree, in its passage to the Chamber, had already been inserted the slippage of the term for the obligatory fundamental functions of the small municipalities, in part to 30 June and in part to 31 December 2014. There was therefore a need to make these two rules consistent. Moreover - I would like to point out - are without prejudice to the notices of invitation to tender published to date from 1 January 2014 until the date of the entry into force of the law of conversion of the same decree. On this aspect too, I would like to draw the attention of the Government, that is, the need for simplification, especially on budgetary issues, to remember (which is not done and has not been done almost by any government) that today is in force a regulation on the budgets of the Municipalities that does not distinguish by size of the Municipalities themselves: the rules that apply to Rome, Milan and Turin, which have adequate bureaucratic and administrative structures, are basically the same, except for a few exceptions, which also apply to small Municipalities. The latter strongly point out that they are burdened with a series of obligations for the combined provision of greater attention by the Court of Auditors and the respect of the Stability Pact, which - I remember - also involves small municipalities from 1,000 to 5,000 inhabitants in 2013. In short, we believe that this is an honest measure, which certainly indicates - as we said before - the things that are not going, but, also with respect to similar measures of the past years, we are not faced with shame and disturbing situations. It is a working measure which nevertheless gives signals in the directions that were required in many of the areas that have been mentioned. [[Applause from Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u247	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. (17.07)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u248	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00182 by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators, and 1-00207 by Senator Serra and other senators, on support for candidate cities in European Capital of Culture 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u251	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, I would like to express our appreciation for having returned to chair the House after a short period of recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u252	Thank you, Senator Candiani. As you may have checked out, I'm still alive, and you're gonna have to put up with me for a while longer. [[Applause.]] I call Senator Lanzillotta to explain motion 182.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u253	First of all, I would like to welcome President Calderoli back. Colleagues, motion 182, which I have signed, stems from a conviction and an opportunity. My deep conviction for many years is that culture, beauty and creativity are those factors of Italian identity that constitute a powerful lever both for our economic growth and for the social quality of our country. These are the factors on which we must therefore focus, because they involve, among other things, assets - those I mentioned before - that no one can ever relocate and that, indeed, will always be a factor of exceptional attractiveness. The opportunity to which I used to refer is for Italy to be the country selected to express once again the European Capital of Culture, in 2019, after our Country has already expressed in the past some European Capitals of Culture. We are talking about 2019, which falls after the Expo 2015, thus setting itself as a multi-year path of relaunching Italian identity at global and international level: a fantastic multiplier to relaunch our country, whose image for many reasons - the crisis, financial difficulty, political and social instability - is often very tarnished in the rest of the world. (17.10 p.m.) (Followed by Mr Lanzillotta). What we have thought, together with other promoters of civil society, is to use, in the path that has been started to identify the European Capital of Culture of 2019, all that heritage of design that has been expressed by the various cities that participated. This project has nothing to do with the European competition, which follows its path and will have an end to it. The finalist cities (Cagliari, Lecce, Matera, Perugia, Ravenna and Siena) have been selected, but many other cities have competed, about twenty cities, of medium and sometimes small size (Aosta, Bergamo, Mantova, Venice, Ravenna, Urbino, Pisa, Siena, Grosseto, Perugia with the Places of Francesco d'Assisi and Umbria, L'Aquila, Lecce, Taranto, Caserta, Matera, Reggio Calabria, Palermo, Siracusa, Erice, Cagliari): a grid that represents the wealth of Italian cities, each of which contains a great heritage of history, culture, monuments and local knowledge. It is about putting into value everything these cities have produced to participate in that selection, mobilizing the energies of the territory, entrepreneurial energies, creativity and cultural. It is precisely a question of mobilizing them, so that those energies can be realized concretely and make critical mass, relaunching in the country a great project of Italy of culture. I believe that mobilizing many small and medium-sized cities, with their societies and economic systems, in a great national project, is an enormous opportunity, also to give meaning to this country and to give back momentum, motivation and desire to do so to many urban societies. I am convinced, in fact, that in this moment of deep crisis in Italy also lacks an idea of horizon, the idea of the direction to go and of what role to have in the world. I believe that in these cities, with the projects they have expressed and generally evaluated of good quality, there is the possibility of doing those operations that many times architect Renzo Piano, our colleague in the Senate, has suggested to us. [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, Mr President, but it is difficult to speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u254	I would like to ask my fellow Members to the right of the Presidency to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u255	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). As I said, Renzo Piano suggested that we retrain the historical centers and sew them with the suburbs, through works of architecture, urban redevelopment, but also by making live in the cities and suburbs culture, on the level of museums, theatrical and film events, as well as creations in the places of the city itself. These projects, in fact, are projects of cultural redevelopment events. We suggest that the Government do just this project, which can be a great national project, using part of the European funds that, for the 2014-2020 programming, see some programs corresponding to these lines of intervention (CreativeEurope and Cultural Heritage). These lines, in fact, could be linked, through a wise direction, to European funds linked and destined to mobility, so as to create hard infrastructure together with soft infrastructures, as are those of culture. Therefore, involving the cities in a reprogramming of their urban planning and their future could lead to a awakening of these urban centers, and also in others: this, in fact, can be an operational model that starts with these cities and then extends to others, because Italy is the Italy of the thousand cities and of the many villages, and each of these can fit in a path that can become a great project of redevelopment of the urban centers. In my opinion, the starting point is not only demonstrated by the accession of the many colleagues, whom I thank, who have signed the motion, in an absolutely transversal way, but also by the interest of the mayors and the city communities who have responded, of course asking the government for clarity, in the sense that there has been a mobilization and there has been investment in projects. Now, of course, there is the enthusiasm to continue if there are certain and clear objectives. This perspective is for the Government to give it, and a suggestion that I propose to the Government could be the insertion of a programmatic norm, even with specific operating tools, in the decree-law for the tourism that is about to be launched, that surely is the economic relapse of an operation of this kind. The funds could be national, and also regional, and here there is the role of strong director that the Government must exercise, putting together the various sources of financing and the various institutional entities, binding PON and POR in a single plan that the Regions should be induced to accept also thanks to the drive that comes from the territories, because the cities involved will certainly be protagonists and promoters towards the regional institutions so that they join, with their share of funds, to this project. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Senate House can discuss a subject like this, which is aimed at the future and which takes us a little away from the often gloomy and heavy discussions to which the measures that we are required to examine lead us. I hope that this is an opportunity that the Government can seize and then develop in the coming months. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u256	I call Senator Serra to explain motion 207.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u257	Madam President, we in the 5 Star Movement also wanted to make a motion concerning the commitment to cities that are candidates for European Capital of Culture. A commitment that certainly sees in Italy a stronghold, being Italy a nation very rich in everything that is culture and everything that is knowledge. The title "European Capital of Culture" has been designed to contribute to the rapprochement of the peoples of Europe. And starting from this idea, on a proposal from Mrs Melina Mercouri, the Council of Ministers of the European Union adopted this initiative again in June 1985. Since 1985, 32 cities have been designated European Capital of Culture, and the Council of Ministers of the European Union is the only institution empowered to assign this title. For the Italian State six cities have passed the first selection and only one will testify to the urban culture of Italy in the international context. The Italian candidates are Siena, Ravenna, Lecce, Perugia, Matera and Cagliari. These are cities of great cultural tradition and with an absolutely glorious past: Siena and Matera even recognized as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, Perugia, Lecce and Cagliari. They are all cities characterized by great monuments but also by small treasures, as happens in all the cities and all the countries of Italy, rich in history and traditions. But let's talk about the choice that will focus on one of these cities and that will find its foundation not simply in its own historical and artistic heritage or in valuable events, but in the program of cultural events that candidates intend to realize during the period of assignment of the title, during which they will be called to enhance their own peculiarities and to offer demonstration of their own creativity. Each candidate represents a single territorial, cultural and artistic reality, however it is not possible to think of them unbounded from the indissoluble system that is Italy and of which are the richness of its territory. It is necessary to imagine these six cities as a part of a whole, as a mesh of a wider network, as a corollary of a unitary project. Indeed, if it does not grow and develop the whole, understood as a country, it is not possible to think of the chosen city as the European Capital of Culture. Culture contains in itself a great strength and a great power with important economic implications. It is able to dictate the program of the country and in our case represents the polar star to follow in order to reach a safe landing place, a flywheel and an opportunity for the economy of our country, rich in history that we know and that we hope will become a viable future. For us of the 5 Star Movement, Italian culture is the basis on which to build the foundations of our future: regardless of the city that will be chosen as the European Capital of Culture, the opportunity that is offered to us can become an economic, cultural and social advantage for all the cities affected by the project. For us, the 2019 Italy Programme will give Italy the strategic role of culture in relaunching the country and individual territories. It is important that the cities involved and the whole Italian territory feel part of a project of rebirth of our country and that they identify in the culture and the enterprise that derives from it the driving force of the economy, able to stimulate the rebirth of all Italy, while giving an innovative dimension to the conservation of cultural heritage. In this way, strong of safe driving, the material and moral well-being of citizens will be improved and the development of tourism will be promoted, which is a great resource for our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pezzopane.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u258	I would like to say that the agenda has been presented on the G1 agenda, signed by Senator Calderoli and others, which is intended to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, representatives of the government, we are discussing here motions in support of the cities that participated in the competition for the candidacy for European Capital of Culture 2019. This is a great opportunity for our country, not only from the cultural and tourist point of view, which also represents a great opportunity for the development and relaunch of our economy. There are many Italian cities that have submitted their candidacy and only some have passed the careful selections of Italian and European experts in order to identify the finalist cities. Among these, I can say with pride, there is also Ravenna, my city, whose candidacy started from afar. I want to talk about this candidacy, the work that has been done and the value of this work. The will to run Ravenna as the European Capital of Culture was made official by Mayor Matteucci in 2007 (this is therefore a long-term candidacy) by a letter to the then President of the Council of Ministers Romano Prodi, to the President of the European Parliament, Hans-Gertttering and to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso. Since then, in Ravenna a path has been set in motion made of dialogue and sharing, with the institutions, with the organizational realities and especially with the citizens, heart and engine of the initiative (this is a very important aspect), until the publication of a real manifesto in support of this candidacy. Technical and political meetings were then held with European representatives and also with some cities, which in the past have already played this important role, such as Lille, Liverpool, Linz or Istanbul. More than 15 working groups have been set up, divided by disciplinary sectors, from visual arts to sport, from cinema to gender equality, able to gather more than 300 representatives of the main cultural, social and economic realities operating on the territory. Ravenna, a city already rich and in constant ferment, thanks to this project has experienced a contamination of ideas and intelligence: artists, writers, philosophers, intellectuals, European experts, cultural operators, all together met the city to develop through collective work, visions, models and planning for the Ravenna of the future. After having been three times the capital of the ancient world, Ravenna stands for the European Capital of Culture 2019, first of all because it considers itself able to represent our country in an exemplary way. The reasons for this candidacy are not only based on the exceptional persistence of a monumental and prestigious heritage, included by UNESCO on the World Heritage List, and not even on an international cultural production. Ravenna is convinced that she can design a model of a city in Europe in which Italian identity can be well mirrored. Ravenna is the city of mosaic and the image of mosaic lends itself very well to give an idea of the encounter between the plurality of forms and experiences, which innerd the artistic-cultural discourse of this territory. Starting from a history that consecrates it as a place of encounter and dialogue between different cultures, ancient bridge between East and West, Ravenna is characterized by the presence of a social capital and a group of cooperative forces, which have allowed in the past and will allow more and more in the future the holding of the civil fabric of citizenship. But in order to become European Capital of Culture, Ravenna, as well as the other cities nominated and involved in this important project, had to build a path through which ideas could be transformed into concrete and sustainable projects. This requires resources, funding, tools and actions to ensure the success of this event. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Idem, I invite you to conclude. IDEM (PD). I repeat: this is a great opportunity for civil and economic development of the entire country, which can create growth and employment, participation and enthusiasm, despite the well-known adage that "with culture you do not eat". The commitment that we ask the Government with the presentation of the motion under consideration is to pay particular attention to supporting this program and to the whole network of cities that have joined the competition, beyond what will be the winner. Therefore, there are some specific values of the network of commitments that have come to be created and that must therefore be supported and carried forward in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u260	She is registered to speak Senator Giannini. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I call on the House to listen silently, also because when the presence in this House is less numerous, the buzz is even more annoying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u261	Thank you, Madam President. The House is not crowded, and therefore the amount of attendance, which is lacking, should be compensated for by greater quality in listening. First of all, I would like to express great satisfaction, and also gratitude, to the colleagues who have promoted the two motions presented, aimed at proposing an important challenge to the Government. I would like to stress, in fact, that this challenge could represent an extraordinary opportunity to put in place an exercise of political method that for once surpasses the tyranny of the short term and its intrusive dimension in our national affairs. I am referring to proclaiming 2019 today as the year of Italian culture in Europe and therefore making cities that have already passed a first important and very strict selection to become potential candidates for European Capital of Culture a heritage network of projects, of valorization within the country and of opening to the outside. I too, like Senator Idem, had the opportunity to follow one of these projects in the previous role I played - which was in the city of Perugia - and therefore I realized the complexity of preparing a dossier, so that a city would be analysed, evaluated and also selected (in the case of Perugia, which I remind colleagues is one of the six cities selected so far, the operation was successful). This is a great opportunity for the candidates to overcome - let me stress this - what might seem like a paradox for Italy, namely the idea that there should be only one city with genetic characteristics and the projection towards the future such as to be designated European Capital of Culture. If we look at the list of the 21 candidate cities in a first round and also of the six remaining ones (the Senator Lanzillotta has already mentioned them, but I repeat them, from the islands to the South, to the Centre-North: Cagliari, Lecce and Matera, Perugia, Ravenna and Siena), from this simple listing we realize that all these cities have, in their history, their monumental heritage and their intangible heritage, that is, in the possibility of producing thought through university or historical-cultural institutions and in any case in the possibility of exercising attraction of tourists and foreign art lovers, a natural vocation. We must overcome this paradox - if it is - by looking at the elements to which the European Commission pays particular attention and importance to select capital. Let me point out that we must make this occasion, that is, the year 2019 as the year of the European Capital of Culture, the instrument to make these elements truly a cultural project, but also a social and economic one to relaunch our country. I explain: the commission that evaluates the capitals and that has evaluated also the 20 candidate cities, then become six, has emphasized very clearly the fact that it is not the history that must lead that city to feel elected the ideal candidate, but it is its projection towards the future, that is, the planning that that city - whether Essen, Liverpool, Tallin or one of our candidate cities - can imagine for a different location in Italy - in our case - and in the world. This means that 2019 will be the year of the regeneration of historic centers and urban centers, of the rethinking of the relationship between the center and the outskirts of our cities, of an assignment of new functions to the centers and the outskirts of our cities and therefore it may be the year in which the reason for the internal valorization of the European Capital of culture becomes, not the heritage of a single city (the one that presented the best project), but a heritage widespread throughout the national territory. The second important point is that this selection (which, as already mentioned, has more than twenty-five years of history, because it was launched in 1985 by a brilliant intuition of the then Minister of Culture of Greece Melina Mercouri) can also become an opportunity to enhance this heritage outwards and therefore to reaffirm the European dimension, not only of the designated capital, but of the whole country. See that nothing is more essential to relaunch our country on the level not only of growth and competitiveness, but also of its role in the world, of conceiving history, tangible and intangible heritage as a flywheel and instrument of growth for the future. If this happens, the commitment that is asked of the Government - and I return to the motion presented by Senator Lanzillotta and other signatories - is to identify suitable tools, to enhance all the cities candidate to European Capital of Culture, putting them on the network and highlighting the urban aspect, that of concrete planning and that of immaterial. This - I repeat - can truly be an extraordinary occasion for a government, ours, which has so far suffered from the tyranny of the short term and the primary need to look more at home rather than at the international context. I am therefore very pleased and I believe that the House, even if it is not very crowded at this time, wants and can be firmly associated with the two motions in our examination. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and Senator Lanzillotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u262	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u263	Madam President, it is up to us to Italy - as has been said in previous speeches - in 2019 to have the European Capital of Culture, after fifteen years and after the positive experiences of Bologna, Florence and Genoa, already European Capitals in the past years. The next round for Italy will then be in 2034 and then the date of 2019, which seems distant, is perhaps very close. It is a great opportunity for us Italians to re-launch the image of the country, a cultural substance and - as has been said and written in the motion that many of us have signed with conviction - Italy can have a great opportunity. He can decide to manage this affair in an ordinary, bureaucratic way, doing what little is his responsibility, or on the contrary he can choose to stay there, that is, to mark a virtuous path along with those cities that the effort to run supported and went forward with determination. I have followed step by step the whole path, from the issuing of directives to the international ban until the preparation of the projects, having had the extraordinary honour to coordinate the preparation of the dossier of candidacy of the city of L'Aquila. The cities that have applied - as was previously mentioned - have worked for years, and one of them will be the one chosen by the international jury; but the chosen city could be the tip of diamond of a network of cities that, in recent years, have supported enormous efforts: they have tried not only to invent good cultural programs - and that is there - but rather they have supported the effort to rethink, to aim for a cultural regeneration of their communities, to strengthen their cultural missions. Two aspects have emerged in the work of these years: firstly, 21 cities have applied. I have to say that there are many, never before; normally, in previous versions, even in other European countries, there have been few candidates. It was not just a search for visibility, as it was a risk for the administration to put itself at stake. It was rather the effort, the search for a role for communities in a European area, with a desire therefore to get out of the magma of generic and globalized. Yet, in the competition - this is the second important element found - the cities have been able to be on the net: they have all gathered together more than once, they have shared views, national and European objectives and initiatives. In short, an intelligent network has been created, a network of candidate cities. These cities, first and foremost their municipalities, have worked for a long time; they have followed a virtuous path, important involvements and the creation of important new facts. I quote a few. First of all, we had to design long-term projects, not only from a cultural point of view but, as was well said, also from a social point of view. Human resources have been invested, involving operators and young talents; they have been involved in the adventure private partners and new patrons. Hundreds and hundreds of citizens have been involved with new methods of involvement and participation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pezzopane, I invite you to conclude. Mr Pezzopane (PD). If all this is true - and it is true - I believe that supporting the network of candidate cities (Programma Italia 2019) can be a proposal that convinces the whole Senate and that means that the Ministry, through the reconnaissance of its resources, through special projects and European projects, can stay inside this opportunity, not only of cultural revival but of support for a truly innovative economic, social and cultural recovery. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Madam President, I ask that the remainder of my speech be appended to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u264	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u265	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to share the same enthusiasm as my colleague, Mrs Lanzillotta, about the European Capital of Culture 2019, and I hope that at some time I too will be able to express such a positive opinion, although I must say that the experience so far has not been up to the situation. You have remembered Mrs Pezzopane well. I myself have collaborated directly in the drafting of the candidacy for the European Capital of Culture for the territory of Venice and of the whole North-East in a very ambitious project, which emphasized that of other European Capitals of Culture, in particular that referred to the Ruhr, the great German steel and industrial area, which has completely transformed with this candidacy and today is one of the cultural excellences in the world. We hoped to be judged at national level in terms of projects, content, the validity of the proposals presented and instead, once again, the Italian Government unfortunately flattened itself on cold rules and established that it could only be a city to be candidate and not a territory, which revolved around a city like Venice, which evidently did not need the official recognition of European Capital of Culture, because Venice is a world capital of culture. Therefore, although I regret this judgment, which has not entered into the merits of the proposals and projects presented, I hope that the other cities that have remained in the race - and I know they have worked a lot around this proposal - can instead develop truly innovative paths that can then be models for the whole of Italy. Therefore, I can only support the proposal to enhance the network of cities of Europe 2019 because indeed the work done by all these cities is an important work, in a state such as Italy which has enormous cultural and artistic resources, but which unfortunately does not know how to value them because it lives on rent, as they say. Often it is a self-referential territory because we know that we are at the center of world history, we know that we have an inexhaustible artistic heritage, but unfortunately we do not know how to create networks: we do not know how to interact culture with the world of tourism, with the world of enterprise, for example. We do not have real cultural enterprises and our industry and our companies do not know how to use the value that culture can give in terms of creativity, design, ideas and content. This is a very big risk. I hope that the project of the European Capital of Culture - and the city that will be chosen to represent Italy - will give a strong signal in this direction: to show everyone that it is not true that culture is not eaten but that instead it is true that culture can promote important processes, give value to the enterprise and above all enrich the tourist business of something destined to remain over time. In fact, if it is true that the economic crisis leads us to organize fewer events, fewer events, it is equally true that the tourist will continue to come to Italy and our tourists will increase if, in addition to events, artistic beauties and museums we will also be able to offer them cultural opportunities and if the tourist will perceive to be in a territory different from the others, expressing a different soul, that knows how to enhance culture in all fields of social and economic life, because culture helps us to open horizons, to improve relationships, to be more civil, to unite generations and also to draw lessons from history; we, who are lucky to have an artistic heritage of great level and value, we must absolutely take advantage of it. For these reasons I hope that the city that will be chosen and the projects now in the field do not aim so much at the mere enhancement of the artistic heritage - which is already done and which Italy would not even need - but at finding new solutions instead. I believe that the experiences made in recent years in Europe, some of which are of great interest, are particularly useful in an Italy in which the industrial sector is in great crisis, in which the productive districts today live an unprecedented crisis. We, as a territory of the North-East, wanted to submit a candidacy precisely because we realize that the North-East is in crisis, has somewhat exhausted the thrust that made it one of the most active areas in the world, one of the richest, also from the point of view of the productive intrapresa. Today, it is an area where unfortunately there are entrepreneurs who commit suicide, where industries make a huge effort, where they quit. In this area, therefore, the very rich artistic heritage, cultural networks, links with Eastern Europe, with the Balkan region through Friuli, with the North, with Central Europe and the German world, through our Provinces and our Region, could really be an important objective, a new way of enhancing and making culture in a connection not only European but even global. It is clear - as Mrs Pezzopane also said - that this work has not been thrown away at all; indeed, it is all reports that have intensified, they are projects that remain, ideas that will certainly be carried forward. Roads have been opened which will be useful and which, I hope, will be followed. The hope of all is that the work done can be used. However, important energies and minds have been spent. Therefore, I hope that the network of cities that have proposed their candidacy, including the one that will win it, can be born seriously and be the instrument to regenerate a cultural Italy in a new way, able to give confidence and constitute a new flywheel of development for the country; a different development, certainly less industrial, less linked to refineries, less linked to the great industries and more linked instead to the quality, the territorial bond, the value that culture can produce and to the new way of proposing Italian tourism. Of course, we need resources. Contrary to what is thought, there are very few European resources. Europe gives an opportunity, it gives a brand, it gives a great visibility, but the resources are really very little account. Therefore, if the State and the Government do not make the necessary resources available, there is a risk that the project, given the economic constraints of the Regions and the municipalities, will be very little. I hope that this is not the case, and therefore the Group of Independents will vote in favour of the proposals presented today, and I thank the proposers for doing so, in the hope that this cultural Italy will really be able to look ahead and seize this great opportunity, avoiding always looking at a past that has seen us as great protagonists of world history but that today sees us really in trouble. [[Applause from the GroupAut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator D'Onghia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u267	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u268	Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate Senator Panizza, because he has also fully expressed our thoughts on this matter. Indeed, if we think that the territory of the Triveneto has not been taken into consideration, unfortunately we must all say that those who made this assessment most probably felt that they were still in front of the Triveneto once. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Northeast! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Senator, in the North-East of one time, that industrialized North-East, which does not need to be relaunched. If we go to read the ban, we talk about cities to be revived, and unfortunately, in our opinion, we have not understood the meaning of the proposal of Venice and the North-East. We would like to thank Senator Lanzillotta for having tabled this motion because, at last, in this House, we can talk about culture and tourism without the assault of a decree-law that is incumbent upon us, without the assault of the amendment or of the government that obliges us to vote in one way rather than another. So perhaps today, for the first time in this legislature, we have the opportunity to confront ourselves in a more serene way than other occasions and to be able, within the Senate, to make system on culture and we hope that the cities that have been taken into consideration can do so. We believe that the European Capital of Culture is an important event that Italy must value and take into account, an event that will reach four years from the Expo and therefore will be another great showcase for our nation. We therefore think that the synergy that we are trying to create with the Expo can be duplicated, we can really start thinking about the Italian cities, our cities and our regions, as to local authorities that can show that by making system, uniting to achieve a certain goal, you really manage to go beyond the national borders. As my colleagues have also pointed out, the 21 cities that have been proposed are really many, certainly an exception compared to other European countries. But we must emphasize that Italy is the nation of culture and we could not help but expect at least twenty cities or twenty realities intending to confront this important project. Six major cities have been chosen, six cities - as the ban rightly states - to be re-launched, cities that want to re-launch. Therefore, compared to the important cities that had been chosen in the past, reality choices have been made that can have a future and can show Europe as a whole and the world what they have to prove. Putting at least one in the North wouldn't have been unwelcome, but that's okay, there's no problem, we're happy. (17.52) (Following Hundreds of Years). We believe that this is a great opportunity for these cities, and therefore we must all get together, from Bolzano to Lampedusa, to help the city that will then be able to play the role of European Capital of Culture. In fact, as happened abroad, when a city becomes European capital it becomes not only that city, but the whole nation. So we all have to get to that goal together. It is an opportunity and it will also be an opportunity for our fellow citizens to think about culture - as some colleagues have also pointed out - not as a debt but as a means of saying that culture is eaten. What do you mean? You eat because culture produces income and those who say that culture does not produce income say heresy knowing to say it. Through culture, many jobs can be created, both in cultural areas in the strict sense and in the various cities linked to tourism. Think that behind a show there is not only the artist, but there is a whole series of companies and people who can work thanks to culture. It is important to consider, here I want to highlight it, that at the moment the cities of province, the small and medium-sized cities are investing heavily on culture, which are re-launching and creating cultural circuits and paths. This allows them to invest resources, not only public, thanks to sponsors, which allow them to make a qualitative leap. I am from Pavia, a city which has not even applied for this recognition, but which was declared by the European Commission two years ago as the European Capital of Cultural, Tourist and Religious Paths. Well, in these two years we have almost doubled the number of visitors. In these times two very important exhibitions were held, one on Renoir, the other on Monet, yet until a few years it was practically unthinkable that a small town like Pavia could carry out such initiatives. Culture has always been considered a taillight. When was there to be cut in the budgets of public administrations - unfortunately also in that state - where did they go to cut? In culture. This can and must be a time when we all understand that these events can allow cities and our local authorities to give more to the citizens. (17.56) (Followed by Hundreds of Years). Cultural events not only create jobs and earn income, but also enable our fellow citizens to grow mentally. The cities in which culture is made are also safer cities, because they are alive, where maybe it is late in the evening and citizens can go out quietly without fear for their safety. I see the President is looking at me, so maybe my time is running out. Before returning to the explanation of vote, I hope, involving undersecretary Giordani, that we also see very careful in the Commission especially on these issues, that the 2019 Italy Programme will not become a coach as were other programs or projects that were launched at national level, that we knew how they started and not how they arrived. This must be an important project, of collaboration and cooperation, a project through which to finally realize that system between the central State, then the Ministry, and the local administrations. This must be an opportunity, and I will also tell the Minister in the future, to ensure that such projects can be carried out. Elsewhere they're doing it. Unfortunately we are going a bit random is each for its own way, so maybe you do not achieve certain results, especially in the tourist field. However, Mr President, I do not take any more time, because I shall speak of it in an explanation of vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u269	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u270	Madam President, today's debate is not at all secondary. I want to give credit to Vice President Lanzillotta for taking the initiative to present this motion, which many of us have signed. I've seen the movie "The Great Beauty" recently. I want to start there because I think it is paradigmatic of what Italy should do to succeed in achieving great successes: Italy has to do Italy. Good cinema, good culture, a film that shows the thousand contradictions of our country, but also the great beauty of Rome and, through it, of the whole country, is rewarded. We will be good if we can start economics again starting from the beauty, culture, tourism, which are the real fundamental assets of our country. That the 21 cities that started the adventure have found a way to favour cooperation to the competition through the 2019 Italian Program is an absolutely positive fact, also emphasized by the president of the panel of experts, Steve Green. In this way the whole country in 2019 can be European Capital. Twenty-one cities and 16 regions united on four fundamental axes: the artistic and cultural program in the medium and long term, the involvement of citizenship, a strong anchor in Europe and culture, seen as preparatory not only to tourism, but to welfare, entrepreneurship and individual well-being. Matera in particular, city of my Region, has cataloged under the voice "culture" the collective game, the technological innovation, the residences of civic hackers multimedia applications on museums and cultural garrisons in general, the improvement of the quality of urban life and food and wine. Matera, for the harmony of living and resisting that distinguishes it, is a concrete example of resilience, yesterday as today. For this reason Matera candidates herself, in the name of the entire South of Italy, the South of Europe and all the south of the world, to express and represent forgotten cultures, those that have deep keys and values, to unlock a situation of economic, cultural and social crisis from which the dominant cultures cannot get out. But, beyond my understandable support for a city in my region, address in the same way a wish to all the other five beautiful and noble cities participating in this second phase (I like to name them: Siena, Cagliari, Ravenna, Perugia, Lecce). The real game is to make Italy 2019 a strong example of good practice of economic development, starting from culture, starting from - back to what I said in premise - from the beautiful, this extraordinary beauty that distinguishes our country. With the motions under consideration, the government (here represented by the Undersecretary, to whom I address) is asked to guarantee and to share the whole path, making available the resources necessary to live this great occasion to the end, taking advantage also of the programming cycle 2014-2020. I don't doubt the government wants to do that. I do not doubt that on these issues the entire Senate can find total cohesion with a vote - I hope - unanimous in these motions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u271	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u272	Madam President, Mr Sfafe Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to ask Mr Lanzillotta to be able to sign his motion. I think it is absolutely important, because there are 21 cities that participated in the first selection and six that were chosen: among these six there is also my city, Cagliari. I have to say that I am in a lucky situation, because I am one of those mayors who raised the question, in 2006-2007, in order to be able to participate in this ambitious goal and this sought-after competition. It is clear that this choice has been made - I like to emphasize it - not only by the mayor, but by about 600 stakeholders who gathered around five thematic tables, one of which was precisely that of culture. From this table began the demand to aim, for the development of the city, in an area that someone considers not worthwhile from the economic point of view, while we argued that culture could have an important economic value: first, because it increases the tourist appeal of the city, second (not indifferent reason) because it qualifies tourism, especially that sustainable tourism of which I was a bishop when I was at the ANCI and I was delegated, precisely, for tourism. Sustainable tourism means that, by improving the quality of life of citizens, we also have a more attractive city in the context of international tourism. A lot of things we've done since then to earn this choice. Whatever the winning city, I will surely be at your side and the motion of Senator Lanzillotta has precisely this characteristic: it will win a city around which we will all tighten, because it will represent Italy as a city of culture. But as of today I believe that the meaning of the Lanzillotta motion is to favour all six cities that have been selected, so that they can continue their journey towards tourism and culture. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u273	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u274	Madam President, citizens, I will open my speech with a sentence from Master Claudio Abbado: "Culture is against vulgarity and makes it possible to distinguish between good and evil." Similarly, I will close this brief speech with a reminder that the recently deceased Master seems to have left us all as a legacy. The six selected Italian cities, of the 21 cities originally nominated as "European Capital of Culture 2019" are the result of the judgment of a jury, appointed by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, chaired by Steve Green. Nothing about the cities now selected (Lecce, Cagliari, Matera, Perugia, Ravenna, Siena), all deserving, because it is the whole of Italy's cradle of culture. In 2019 Italy, represented by one of these cities, will have the important opportunity to spread and show, on a planetary level, its culture, its history, natural riches, artistic beauties, food and wine culture. In practice, Italy will show its best face. Having said that, however, I would like to see suitable means of control put in place so that that corrupt and corrosive Italian system can be marginalized and destroy what is good and with considerable effort is built. I am referring to the great events that Italy has already been called: from the Swimming World Championships to the organization of the G8, we have always witnessed the waste of public money, the corruption shown by a system linked to bribes and not to quality. It seems that also this important event, dedicated to the European Capital of Culture 2019, is not free from suspicions and clues, brought to light by vigilant local journalists. I refer, in particular, to the presence of friendly and professional links between the members of the jury and administrators, promoters, members of the Scientific Committees of the candidate cities. There is a potential conflict of interest between Alessandro Hinna, one of the members of the jury, and the cities of Cagliari and Siena. Hinna, in fact, through a company, seems to have worked with the committees of Siena and Cagliari: two of the cities that today have entered the short list. Among other things, the president of the jury, Steve Green, as emerges from his biography, had a professional collaboration with Charles Landry, member of the Scientific Committee of Matera 2019. The 5 Star Movement has always promoted transparency and clarity in the conduct of the administrative procedure. In particular, in this affair, the selective process seems to be spoiled by connivances that affect the trust of the honest citizen. We are for legality, which is achieved only with transparency. The elimination of any conflict of interest must be the clear starting point for the whole procedure to be defined as correct, because the future economic benefits at stake are very important. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism provides substantial revenue linked to the event, and I would like to give an example. For each euro invested for the European Capitals of Culture is calculated a return from 8 to 10 euros of profit, through the movement of tourism, gadgets, related cultural events, television rights. In the past, for the years 2005-2011, the average budget of an event was 50 million euros and the amount is set to grow in the coming years. Take the example of Liverpool, which, with an investment of 140 million euros in 2008, stated that it had achieved an economic return of more than 900 million euros. Italy lives on tourism and the 2019 event, not only will it create a direct advantage for the designated city, as for the entire country. Imagine the tourist itineraries that will also allow the classic destinations - Rome, Venice, Florence - to benefit from it: an increase that, from the above analysis, is around 25 percent on the average of the annual tourist traffic per city. We have the opportunity to relaunch Italian culture in the world, we can do so thanks to that about 2.6% of the GDP of the European Union that is generated every year by culture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, I invite you to conclude. WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Madam President. It is not true that "with culture you do not eat," this is a bad teaching! Bologna, European Capital in 2000, increased tourist attendance by 10.1 percentage points. Genoa, in 2004 had an increase in the growth rate of tourists by 8%. It is clear, therefore, that the event contributes to growth. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u275	I invite you to conclude. Terminate the sentence at least.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u276	WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Of course, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech. Today I am the spokesperson for this stubborn and passionate will for legality and transparency. What I am asking for, what the citizens are asking for, is to be able to count on the fairness of the institutions. The intention is to monitor, to denounce the maneuvers in the secret rooms and to bring to light, if necessary, well-hidden anomalies. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u277	Senator Donno, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech. Unfortunately, it has already exceeded its time by one minute, and I had already warned you twice about this. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u278	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to sign motion 182, and I have asked for the approval of Senator Lanzillotta to do so, because they have convinced me of the content and approach of this motion. I did this first because, at a time when the municipalities are abandoned to themselves and are living in a very difficult situation of financial constraints and objective difficulties, I find it right to encourage the action of these cities. Twenty-one have arrived at the first phase of the first selection for Capitals of Culture and today, six remain in the short lists, for what is the prodromic activity at the final designation. Well, I believe that the effort made by these municipalities at such a difficult time should be rewarded, and that it cannot be done only by the designation of a single city, which will then become the European Capital of Culture in 2019. The rationale and underlying philosophy of the motion must be shared regardless, leaving aside our settings and our positionings in this House. We must do this because the municipalities, in planning and implementing that bank projects mentioned in the motion, have made a real revolution, also from the point of view of administrative culture. It is thought that until a few years ago, even in recent times, the goodness and skill of an administration were evaluated by the ability to realize public works. A budget was read only for what was the programming of public works, often untied, disorganic and uneven, which did not look too far and did not show a far-sighted look on the part of the administrators. Well, if we reward, as we do with this motion (and as the Government must then do downstream of the approval of this motion), the ability to plan regardless of the conveniences of the moment, what can be the small clientele occasions that can connote positively, for a few days or for a few weeks, the administrative action of a mayor or a councilman, we have done a good political action. I had the opportunity to follow more directly the path of a particular city, the city of Lecce. Well, at a time when it is difficult to have references outside the municipality (because we do not understand, in this great constitutional engineering that we are all trying to put into practice, which are the intermediate bodies), I have seen the city capital of my territory become a pivot and become what we often, in words, define a vast area, without knowing what it is. The action of Lecce Capital of culture has become the vast area for a territory that is not only the provincial one, but that of a much wider area. Well, the final part of the motion, where it is said that we have to go beyond the contingency of the designation of a single city as Capital of Culture, going to reward the effort of all the cities, becomes the element that distinguishes not only the motion, but our ability to be behind these municipalities and to realize a good practice, that applies not only to these 21 cities, but that then becomes model to realize in this matter, not only of cultural programming, but certainly in the first place of cultural programming, a scheme to follow and to be defined as a usual scheme that exalts the programming ability of local administrators and enhances a cultural programming. For these reasons, Madam President, I have given my firm support to motion 182. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u279	She is registered to speak Senator Cardinals. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have signed with conviction motion 207, first signed by Senator Lanzillotta, who is born from a path shared also with the House of Deputies, who in the meantime approved an act of direction on this subject, and which gives the opportunity to go beyond the good intentions made so far on the subject of culture as a resource and instrument for relaunching the economy. As my fellow Members have said, it is outside the urgency of the measures. I will try to stay on the subject of the motion, although culture is a very fascinating subject, but it would take us far too far. The European Capitals of Culture 2019, as well as Expo 2015, are opportunities that go far beyond the borders of the cities directly involved, because they concern the country system. Many cities, 21 to be exact, have worked to present the application dossier making a great effort, however at a time of extreme difficulty for local authorities, demonstrating that despite the difficulties in giving daily answers, the municipalities do not give up looking ahead, planning the future of their cities; they have improved, in some cases created, relations between different subjects, between public and private, involving a multiplicity of citizens, representatives of different areas with the tool of participatory design, a very interesting tool, but we also know very tiring to put in place. I know closely the work done by the city of Perugia, because I have been city council member until last year; a city that, together with Assisi and the whole Umbria Region, has made a path of real overcoming the logic of bell tower and also political belongings - allow me the joke - since the two mayors belong to opposite sides. This is proof that culture really manages to unite and go beyond borders, with a project that goes beyond the elective mandate, the legislature, even in terms of deadlines. He passed these logics to exalt the excellences of an entire regional territory, so much so as to present his candidacy with a precise name: "Perugia 2019" with the places of Francis of Assisi and Umbria. In 2012 the two municipalities together with the Region of Umbria gave birth to the Foundation Perugia 2019; later they joined numerous subjects who were listened to one by one so that they could represent their ideas and introduce them into the dossier. It has been a long and real listening work, to the point of having today about 80 subjects that are part of it, among associations, public bodies, institutions and private; of course the protagonists of the governance remain the founding subjects. The contribution of universities (we have two important universities, the one for foreigners and the Italian one), which, together with other institutions of high education and research, cultural actors, business subjects, have already put in place actions that look decisively to Europe in the search for new sectors related to cultural and creative production, the preservation and valorization of works of art and the use of heritage, thus generating new employment at a high rate of creativity and innovation. It is, in short, a project that speaks of growth; an intelligent growth with innovation, creativity, knowledge, training, attention to young people, sustainable growth with sustainable events, with long-lasting effects of urban and socio-cultural policies, solidarity growth with interventions that promote new employment through cultural and creative industries, greater inclusion and social cohesion and the full affirmation of citizenship rights. Throughout the dossier there is always a great deal of reference to Europe, including the issues of full accessibility of cities and European citizenship, the status of a European citizen at all levels. This was confirmed by the presentation of projects relating to the Citizens' Europe programme, together with other initiatives, such as the European Children's Festival, for a specific age group. The work done by the 21 cities represents an important bank-projects for the development of the medieval cities, the result of an important work of coordination between the different subjects who try to combine the existing with the search for the new, carefully assessing various needs from a strategic perspective that goes beyond 2019 and the territorial borders. This translates into urban, social, tourist, economic and cultural policies in a cross-sectoral perspective and in support of the recovery of the leadership of the cities, which is especially fundamental for the capital cities of the Region such as Perugia. It is, as rightly pointed out by CIDAC, Associazione città d'arte e cultura that has promoted and coordinated the Italian Project 2019, to decide which Italy we want for the next decade, what role the middle cities will have to play in designing a new future based on culture for the well-being of citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. CARDINALI (PD). The project should promote the development of relations and agreements between candidate cities. The cities, as stated in the dossier on Perugia 2019, respond to a moment of anthropological crisis that characterizes all European cities of medium size, putting in place processes of urban and cultural regeneration. The same jury spoke of good design and good level. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Cardinali, I invite you to conclude the sentence and, if necessary, to deliver the full text of your speech, so that it may be published in the Reports of the session. CARDINALI (PD). I shall conclude briefly, Madam President. The winning city can only be one and it can be a leader, also because the cities have already started these projects - I am thinking of my region and my city - through the use of the Structural Funds 2007-2013 and therefore we will be working for the new ones. As has already been said, there are important Community programmes and I believe that it is essential not to mortify the work of these cities, but above all to show that we want to help this development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude and hand over the written text of your speech if you wish. Time goes for her, just like any other senator. CARDINALI (PD). I shall then add my speech, Madam President. In conclusion, I would like to invite the Government and the Ministers to accept the request contained in the motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u281	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u282	Madam President, I shall begin by talking about motions. First of all, I should like to express my deep appreciation for the motions that have been tabled and for the debate that I have witnessed in this House today. The motions represent, for us of the Government, the opportunity to discuss a first concrete conjugation of the original intuition of this Government, that is to combine tourism and culture in a single Ministry, to aim at the valorization of our historical and artistic heritage and of all our territorial excellences, as a lever of economic development and attractiveness. The project, illustrated in the motion, represents the possibility of focusing on a first pool of Italian historical centers, representing that widespread heritage that the world envys us and our strength, on which we play what is defined our competitive identity with respect to the rest of the world. This is also a way to enhance that pride of belonging, which has mobilized all communities that have participated actively in the candidacies for the European Capital of Culture. Even today I have heard in the words of those who have spoken, regardless of the political groups, a substantial sharing of the need to enhance our heritage and to begin precisely from our historical centers, which express great vitality and which have been able to express, beyond the final outcome and of which will be chosen as the European capital city of culture, a great fertility and a design capacity. The 2019 Project is promoted by CIDAC, the Association of Cities of Art and Culture, aimed at promoting the cooperation, creativity and circulation of culture, as well as the role that the Municipalities play in managing the historical and artistic heritage. The objective of motion 182 is to create a network among the 21 cities that have submitted a candidacy for the title of European Capital of Culture, in response to the Call published by the Focus Point European Capital of Culture - MIBACT, on 20 November 2012. Consider then that the "Progetto Italia 2019" aims to constitute an opportunity to relaunch the economy of culture and the redevelopment of urban centers, valorizing the contents of the application files presented by the cities already indicated, in order not to disperse its developed planning, the connection with associations, public bodies, citizens and the elaboration of new strategies of urban and infrastructural planning. Therefore, as mentioned in the premise, the project aims as an opportunity for economic and civil growth to promote the regeneration of Italian cities, the development of cultural production and the enhancement of cultural industries, giving an innovative dimension to the preservation of cultural heritage and contributing to the improvement of the well-being of citizens and the development of quality tourism. In this context, the city that will be chosen as the European Capital of Culture 2019 will be able to be the leader of a network involving all the municipalities that participated in the same action. Consider, moreover, that the promoters of the project wish an understanding between the State, the Regions and the Municipalities, and specifically with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion, in order to identify a possible path shared, making use of the financial opportunities offered by the direct and structural funds in the context of the new programming of the European Union 2014-2020. In particular, the Government and its Ministries are invited to commit themselves to the creation of the necessary conditions for the effective implementation of the "Progetto Italia 2019". Subject to and in view of the above, motion No 182, tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators, as far as the institutional competence of this Ministry is concerned, is accepted. Motion No 207, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators, is also accepted. With regard to the agenda G1, presented by Senator Calderoli and other senators, the Government gives a favourable opinion, provided that the text is reworded, providing for the final paragraph of the premise and the last paragraph of the device and rewording the first commitment with the following diction: It commits the Government to promptly ascertain any critical points reported in the document.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u283	Senator Calderoli, do you accept the proposed changes made by the government representative? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u284	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u286	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the representative of the Government for accepting the motion at my first signature, expressing the hope that the commitment will result in a determined, coherent and above all continuous action. In fact, this project requires - as already highlighted - a great coordination capacity to keep together and make system for many institutional components and many subjects, both on the design plan and on the implementation plan. So this is exactly the role a government should play in a complex, multi-level system where public interest stakeholders are many and articulated. It is, therefore, also a challenge for the Government to demonstrate in fact that it is up to the task. In addition, I would like to sincerely thank all the Members who have signed the motion and fully grasp the spirit of it. I think it is very positive that this afternoon, on a project that looks to the future of the country, which intends to enhance its best aspects and energies, there has been a very wide and transversal sharing. This highlights the fact that, after all, it is possible to unite the efforts of politics and institutions in the interest of the country. I think, therefore, that from this point of view too it was an opportunity not to be dispersed. Since the concrete realization of the project will require the support of all, the departure from this sharing promises that everything can then actually go well also on the territories, where obviously different are the articulations of politics and different interests, but to channel all into a single current, which is the one aimed at realizing the express design heritage - we have seen it - with moments of true revitalization of social tissues and local institutions. Of course, in declaring my vote in favour, I believe - I repeat - that this was a good opportunity for the Senate as well. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u287	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u289	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess immediately that I am speaking in a clear conflict of interest, as I am sponsoring and I would say also fan of the city of Matera, which has been included in the short list of cities candidate for European Capital of Culture. I would like to thank Senator Lanzillotta for having had the happy intuition to propose the motion in question, in which I find exactly all the passages of the work done by the city of Matera, which I imagine was also the work of all the other candidate cities. I say this with a bit of pride, having been city councilman in the Junta who decided to run the city of Matera to European Capital of Culture. In the years from 2007 to 2013 I was able to witness the efforts supported by my city, which I imagine are also heritage of all the other cities that have competed in this candidacy. The motion then becomes extremely important and I believe it is a signal that the Government has well received and that I hope, in addition to being so, can also become the enlightened road through which to begin to make planning and strategy. I particularly like the connection that Senator Lanzillotta wanted to make with Expo 2015, as if the latter, together with the European Capital of Culture 2019, were an extremely important fil rouge in a situation as difficult as the one that is living in our country; a reason for the economic revival of Italian reality. For the first time I believe we can finally confront how much can generate the cultural system of our country, seen also as economic development especially for the supported efforts - the data tell us - from the cities in order to be able to give infrastructural endowments able to make them to be up to the task when they were chosen as European Capitals of culture. This is an extremely important challenge that I live as a materano, since Matera has been very organized to express a territory more than a city. I think of the literary parks of Isabella Morra, Carlo Levi and Rocco Scotellaro, up to those that might eventually appear as an oxymoron, that is, the Terre di Orazio. Matera challenges above all this: Carmina does not dant panem. Perhaps, through this experience, we can for the first time bring our country back together with the development of tourism and culture with a new strategy to give much more work to our country. [[Applause from the PI and SCPI groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u290	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u292	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the debate we have had today, thanks to the two first-signed motions by Mr Lanzillotta and Senator Serra, has actually given us the opportunity to bring an experiment of culture and solidarity to this House. In fact, beyond the many interventions in support of the cities involved waiting to be rewarded as European Capitals of Culture, we have actually discussed how this title can become the heritage of everyone. Among other things, this is an important opportunity because in four months' time we will be voting for the European elections and we hope that culture will be a point of the political agenda that is obviously up to a debate to enhance cultural richness and diversity. We have said many times that in our country there is a world particularly rich in culture, full of creative and intellectual resources, that is surviving despite the continuous cuts of these years; therefore, we were not surprised to discover the difficulty of the European jury in selecting the Italian finalist cities, given, precisely, the high level of the numerous proposals. As we have heard from the many interventions, it was a unique experience because many different collaborations have been put together everywhere: tenacity, passion, the competence of many local administrators, together with cultural operators, associations, professionals, public structures, civil servants and civil servants. Therefore, Project Italia 2019 paradoxically proposes not to disperse all these energies, and the idea of building this network is definitely a perspective that could help our territory very much and above all the need for cultural growth. Culture and cities are - we have said - a very important lever for the economic growth of the country, for tourism, for the image in the world, for the identity of our country and for the one it occupies in the international imagination. In Italy, the contribution of the cultural sector to gross domestic product is around 2.3%, half of that of France and the United Kingdom: all to the detriment of jobs that in this sector are mostly skilled to young people. The economic return of cultural heritage to the United Kingdom is three times higher than that of Italy and authoritative studies show that for a euro invested in the cultural sector the return for our territory is six euros. Therefore, it is good to work so that the Project Italy 2019 can really be realized. We liked - I address the Undersecretary - the idea that President Letta presented on 21 November 2013 in Milan, on the occasion of the second edition of the General States of Culture, or the project of the Italian Capital of Culture. We are not clear whether this project will continue, if it will be carried out, but we appreciate the idea of identifying every year an Italian city, choosing also a very important date for us, that of May 27, that is the anniversary of the massacre of Via dei Georgofili in Florence, when a piece of our culture, a part of the Uffizi Gallery and the headquarters of the Accademia dei Georgofili was wounded to death. Here, let's consider that project as a tow for Project Italia 2019, in order to be able to cultivate in these years that cooperative spirit that should accompany this work. In the many projects that have come out of the 21 selected cities we have seen that young people have been involved, skills, experiences, professionalism, workers, investors, who do not deserve, therefore, to be dispersed or to be mortified by exclusion choices, also because it will be an opportunity of work for many young people and not only (and I do not believe that these times is an element to be underestimated). Therefore, we share the Project Italy 2019 and the idea of putting together in a network of solidarity for culture all cities, because it responds precisely to the idea of culture for growth, of culture as a fundamental lever for the revival of the economy (let's think about tourism), but above all for the cultural, social, moral and ethical revival that our country needs so much. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u293	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u295	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I shall try to follow the lines of the previous speech, in the sense that this time must be an opportunity for the development of tourism and culture. This is an ambitious project that will put Italy as a whole - so, as I said before, not only the city that will win this six-way race - under a strong magnifying glass in 2019. It is therefore necessary to make arrangements between the six cities and perhaps among the 21 cities that had participated from the beginning because, in our opinion, it is important not to lose all the work done by the committees that have worked and have worked to achieve this result. Surely there are cities that will bring best practices that can be taken into account and allow to achieve further results. As we said before, it is necessary to make arrangements between the cities and the Ministry. It happens very often that the administrators, the city councilors of the culture and tourism sector - until a few months ago I made the city councilman for culture and tourism - can not even have an interlocutor at the Ministry. In our view, therefore, this further step is important. It is necessary to make a system between the associations of the public sector, but above all among those of the private sector, very often abandoned and not even taken into account. In this system it is necessary to do a remarkable job that has not been done so far: to enhance the tourism sector. Also in this case I say it as a former city councilman, but above all as commercial director of a tour operator who has always worked to bring tourists to Italy. What has been asked in recent years by tour operators, especially foreigners, about Italy is to try to understand what might be the strengths and weaknesses. The strengths of our nation are that Italy is recognized in the world, so the brand Italy is recognized: when we talk about Italy abroad they know what we are talking about. Some tour operators, particularly North Europe, asked tourists who were preparing to arrive in Italy why they had chosen this destination. The number one answer was: cultural sites. This can go in the direction of the project European Capital of Culture 2019. Food and wine is very important, taken into consideration by many tourists. Another fundamental aspect was that of small cities on a human scale. Italy is recognized very often by cities such as Rome, Florence, Milan, Genoa and Naples, but it is also recognized by those small cities that are connected to the tours of the main cities. The relationship between nature and culture was also very important. Foreign tourists recognize this. On this aspect, however, on which the Ministry must work, we also have important points of weakness that we believe, in a short time, must be addressed in order to understand which direction to go. In recent years Italy has lost appeal, not so much for the product (in some cases it is also), but because it has always offered itself in a different way to the interlocutors. If you go to the fairs of the tourism sector you can see that there are several brands: there is the brand Spain, the brand France, the brand Slovenia and all the countries that are there, around. Italy looks like a jagged cloud of the 6,000 bell towers (so to speak), with a brand Italy difficult to recognize. ENIT then, very often, did not go in the direction indicated by tour operators. Another very important criticism that unfortunately is often addressed to us is the fact that in Italy the means of transport are not the best. Another fundamental aspect is the lack of security in our cities. Foreign tourists very often give up coming to Italy also for this reason. So, the goal that we must have and that we must all have is to try to recover where we have weaknesses and exalt our peculiarities and our positive peculiarities. We believe that Senator Lanzillotta's motion goes in that direction of system and project that we want to carry forward with regard to culture and tourism, so our vote can only be favourable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u296	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u298	Conte (NCD). Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the motion by Senator Lanzillotta, whom we have asked to subscribe to by sharing the objectives, in the conviction of the great opportunities that an Italian city, even better if a large area, will have in 2019; opportunities underlined also by the European Commissioner Vassiliou who, in communicating the results of the pre-selection, added the expression: "make the most of the opportunity". The aim of this recognition, since its inception, is that the city that becomes European Capital of Culture can manifest, make known, spread its life and cultural development with the aim of enhancing wealth, cultural diversity and common traits, improving the knowledge of European citizens, promoting awareness of belonging to the same community. The advantages in socio-cultural and economic terms are noteworthy. "United in diversity" is the motto of this initiative, which indicates that Europeans work together and that the many different cultures, traditions and languages present in Europe constitute the richness of the continent. The appointment of a European Capital of Culture can bring enormous benefits to a city in cultural, social and economic terms, both during the year of events, and above all - as is desirable - in subsequent ones. This is a unique opportunity to regenerate the city and its wider territorial context, change its image and make it better known at European and international level in order to develop tourism. It should not be overlooked that the European Union grants a financial prize to European Capitals of Culture through its framework programme on cultural matters. As a Venetian, it is regrettable that the list of cities identified in the preselection does not include Venice, although included in the first list and that it had proposed an innovative project of vast area, not limited therefore to the city alone, but involving the centres and provinces contermini, a wide metropolitan area. I am aware of the thorough work done by the committee of which I had the honour to be a member, and I have heard that similar thorough work has been done by the other committees that are proposing it. And I am also convinced that the work done for all the cities that have competed, those exits after the pre-selection and those that will remain excluded from the final choice, will still have positive repercussions for the territory concerned. The definition of the proposals of the individual cities has been supported by various actors, institutional ones and civil society with its groups and associations, united by the common intention to emphasize the best prerogatives of its territory, comparing with ideas, project proposals, also highlighting criticalities in order to implement interventions aimed at improving the characteristics of the individual realities. A great deal of attention, in our case, has been shown by the academic world. It is therefore appropriate for the State to put itself alongside these actors, recognizing the work carried out, but above all making available tools to give greater strength and consistency to initiatives and interventions, broadening the design horizons. This is the purpose of the motion proposed by Senator Lanzillotta. The programmes that will be drawn up will have to encourage the participation of citizens living in and around the city, aiming to arouse their interest, must be of a lasting character and form an integral part of the long-term cultural and social development of the city. For this reason it is appropriate to ask the Government to put itself at the side and at the disposal of these design ideas and to support them also from the financial point of view. Being awarded the title of "European Capital of Culture" and implementing the proposed work programme is also a unique opportunity for the city to raise its international profile, receive visibility, increase local tourism, give new vigour and liveliness to cultural life. In terms of marketing, it can represent the tow for the territorial tourist network. Therefore, the cultural richness of the area offers a variety of cultural proposals, the production system and the receptive capacity. The positive effects that have characterized the Capitals of previous years are known and consolidated. It is known that cultural tourism, unlike mass tourism, is also a form of tourism evolved from the point of view of spending capacity. Finally, I would like to stress how great opportunities are offered to our young people, not only and not so much because of the possibility of establishing relationships and broadening their knowledge, but also - and this is crucial at this dramatic time for the level achieved by youth unemployment - for the new opportunities for employment that will arise. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u299	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u301	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary who appreciated our motion, that we hope it will become a real commitment to the evaluation and enhancement of culture in Italy, of the knowledge of its unique and primary values. This project helps us to start a reflection for improvement; an opportunity to fill the gap left by an intellectual class that has long renounced to promote reason and social change. The 5 Star Movement wants to be the spokesperson for the valorization of the cities candidate for European Capital of Culture according to criteria of transparency and publicity, both for the projects that they intend to present, however, for the efforts made and what has been achieved in the cultural field. We of the 5 Star Movement ask that the Government evaluate in a prevailing way that the cities candidates for the title of European Capital of Culture are chosen in a substantial way for the fiscal virtuosity, administrative and the scope of social inclusiveness, recognizing and rewarding its effective ability to facilitate and spread the wide-ranging culture. Of course, we feel that we are the spokesperson for the valorisation that must arise from all this commitment that is taking place here in this Senate House today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u302	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u304	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the Lanzillotta motion and on the Serra motion, I need to make a few thoughts. I absolutely agree with what my colleague Senator Bruni highlighted when he emphasizes the centrality of the local autonomy, that is, of our municipal administrations, in the reappropriation of a role that is then the key role, that is, it is the connective fabric of cultural programming and also of tourist nature in Italy. I am referring to the great capacity these administrations have had in giving design impulse, with a strong creativity, moving in the broadest horizons in the field of recovery and redevelopment. So here is a good signal that from the periphery of the country comes to Parliament, so that we can facilitate a path that is destined for the whole population, that is the good practices of how we can be good citizens, good administrators, good rulers. This, in my opinion, is an extraordinary moment; The unanimity which emerges on these motions almost constitutes a political moratorium on good governance. Here, frankly, I find that great image that acts as an umbrella to what the Senate is doing at this moment, that is, the allegory of the good government of Ambrogio Lorenzetti. Let us return to that example of Renaissance harmony and all-inclusive ability to put together the various instances, of the country, of the periphery, of the center, so that this becomes also for us who are invested in a political and public role the starting point to be as propulsive and useful to the policies of the Government. I like to emphasize here the presence of the Government, because the Undersecretary will ask to urge the enactment of the decree tourism, which can represent a turning point in the programming of a cultural nature, therefore also in giving impulse to all the requests that come from the country in terms of virtuous circuits. The system of Italian cities, which will put together their skills and good practices to achieve a virtuous network, can be a good road to government policies and can be useful to all of us. We have a strong need to reverse the trend towards the move - which has been rightly denounced here in the past - of not knowing how to spend or spending Community resources badly. Well, through the system of cities that join forces in order to be able to fully represent the Italian system, you can surely think of a use as virtuous as possible of the Community resources 2014-20. Madam President, the moment we are living could have been represented as the recovery of the beautiful project born from the broad understandings of last April, when we could all together have collaborated so that in the country a turning point, and therefore also a useful circuit. But it wasn't. Today we are probably partially paying back the country a collaboration, at parliamentary level, that also the country and the citizens expect. Through the motions of my colleague Lanzillotta and my colleague Serra we can make amends for that missed opportunity. With these wishes and knowing that all six selected cities have the potential to win, clearly starting for the southern cities, because it would be another good sign if a city in the Mezzogiorno were designated to represent Italy in the European panorama, I would like to wish all the candidate cities a wish. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Torrisi]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u305	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u307	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Lanzillotta and Mrs Serra for the opportunity they give us to give our attention once again to one of our country's great problems. A great problem of our country is to throw away energy, resources and planning. In this motion - and it seems to me that the Government has responded positively - we are asking that this should not happen. (Brusio). He's asking for the whole estate to be... president. Excuse me, Senator Di Giorgi. I invite the right wing of the hemicycle to contain the buzz. I'll ask Senator Calderoli if he helps us keep our voices down. DI GIORGI (PD). I was saying that there is an opportunity not to disperse that design heritage that these cities have put on the field. We are considered among the least good at projects; we are considered among the countries that in Europe are awarded a very small number of European projects. We are therefore among those who donate money to Europe, rather than taking from Europe the resources that we would need. As far as projects are concerned - and it is well said in the motion - there is talk of a project bank, a kind of project database, with a very advanced level of economic and financial definition. This is therefore an opportunity - rightly said in motion 182, to which I too am a signatory - in view of this planning and design activity within further European programmes, which we will be led to produce. This is precisely what it is about, as colleagues have said well: it is about culture that becomes the engine of development, that culture that is a strong goal of our country. We must invest in culture and tourism: we are constantly telling ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, even in this House, but then often in concrete matters we are not used to doing this. It is a big challenge for municipal administrations of course: there will obviously be the winning city, but there will also be the possibility to include the projects already made within a new programming, what we imagine should be done between 2014 and 2020. The government must therefore support the municipal administrations, but these, in turn, must be able to network with their territories, thus involving all public institutions, private, economic categories, universities and schools, since then the planning is not only of an infrastructural nature, of course, but is also linked to training and culture projects, so all our young people and our schools will have to be involved. It is then a great wealth that, at this moment there is and is in the cloud, exactly a place, a great archive that we must definitely use. We must be able to do so with energy, but also with competence, trying to be competitive as always. In this country we always try to be; we do not always succeed and sometimes we do not have the conditions to do so. Therefore, in the light of these comments, as a Group of the Democratic Party we share the two motions, which I see are of great interest to colleagues, who I imagine will vote in favour, even if they do not seem very interested. I therefore vote in favour of my Group. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u308	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes, in the reworded text. I put to the vote motion No 182 tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators. It's approved. I would point out that the motion was adopted unanimously. [[Applause]] I put motion 207 to the vote, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. It's approved. I would point out that this motion was also adopted unanimously. [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u311	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I had previously signed up to speak in the context of the speeches at the end of the sitting. However, I now ask for permission to give my time to Mr Bencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u312	The Presidency shall authorise this. I therefore call Senator Bencini. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u313	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I expect the senators to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u314	Senator Bencini, I gave you the floor. So you can continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u315	I call on colleagues who move away from this House to do so as quickly and quietly as possible. BENCINI (M5S). Madam President, while we are preparing in this House to discuss the privatisation of local public services, as will be the case in Rome, and while the Mayor of Florence is committed to promoting a highly questionable electoral law, and perhaps worse than the one that has left us, in his city, committees and associations of citizens, together with the workers of the Florentine transport company (ATAF)... [[Brusio]] Madam President, I am sorry because there is nothing to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u316	I have already called this House to do so. Members who are standing in this Chamber to speak are invited out. I would ask the House's assistants to accompany those who do not want to listen to Senator Bencini's speech outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u317	BENCINI (M5S). So I was talking about the transport company in the Florentine area. The right to mobility, constitutionally enshrined, must be guaranteed by our administrators (in our case, in Florence, by our mayor) even when public resources to support it are reduced due to the heavy cuts imposed by governments. A municipality that does not have the political will to take care of the essential services for its community, entrusting its management to private entrepreneurship, abdicates to its role. Renzi's decision to get rid of local public transport, selling it to the private sector, meant that the public company, ATAF, was given in the hands of private individuals, but without any social clause for employees. And this was done, of course, in the course of a joint debate, with the support of your political group. The Florentine Municipal Administration has left the new private manager free to act undisturbed, reducing the staff driving the vehicles through early retirements and transfers to other regions, or imposing to the staff remaining shifts of work beyond the limits indicated by the same occupational medicine. Now, with the notice of the termination of the business negotiation, the new company intends to further lower the cost of the staff, reducing the salaries. As we have seen in the Electrolux affair these days, even with ATAF the easiest thing is obviously going to hit the workers. The most expensive part of a business is the workers themselves, the cost of labor. So let's go reduce wages as well as not renew the turnover that might be necessary. Not only that: paradoxically, we go towards the dismemberment of the company between the three companies that control its stock, although the Tuscany Region has announced the regional race of the transport on rubber to entrust it to a single manager. After various strikes, which the workers have done, completely blocking the service for two days, these supplementary business agreements will take place by 31 January, with the suspension of the unpacking of ATAF; or rather, by the end of January, in three days, they will decide what to do with the ATAF: whether to dismember it or unpack it among these three new managers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator. BENCINI (M5S). The policy, concerned only with consent, retains ownership of decisions on ticket prices and on scheduled routes to deceive citizens to be able to guarantee the quality and control of the service, but downloads the management of the staff to the private. All this has certainly not served to improve the service, as evidenced by the continuous delays linked to the traffic and the lack of infrastructures, like the simple preferential lanes that Renzi is carefully guarded from realizing in order not to hinder the interests of category. The first results of this privatisation confirm what has already been found in similar experiences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I invite you to conclude, otherwise you can deliver the text of your speech. BENCINI (M5S). In the local transport sector, the private sector is by no means guaranteed to improve the service or protect workers' rights, and the opposite is true... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u318	Senator, I asked you to finish the sentence. There is, however, a respect for everyone: when you ask for an end-of-session speech, you know that you have three minutes at your disposal, so you make a free choice. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u319	BENCINI (M5S). There is an incredible gazzar in this House, you don't know that! We start with three minutes, one of which is of continuous gazzarra! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the count is in electronic form, you can ask to check. Besides, I always warn in time. BENCINI (M5S). So before we begin the speeches at the end of the sitting, we expect the silence of the House, that everyone should leave, that the herd should leave, and then we should move on to the speeches. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Trust me. There are responsibilities for the management of the House. BENCINI (M5S). I trust you, but it's not good, because I'm talking about workers who are in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u320	I also waited for the change from the name that was given to us and also the merit, if we want to be precise. So, please, there's a balance for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u321	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u323	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to remind you of a collision that took place two and a half years ago, between the boats "Jolly Grigio" and "John the Father." In particular, today the fishing vessel "John the Father" is still abyssed and is located at a depth of almost 450 meters. What happened on the evening of 11 August 2011? The ship "Jolly Grigio", cargo of the Messina Line, after the collision with the fishing vessel (that has caused the death of two of the fishermen, Vincenzo and Alfonso Guida), as we read from the press, has even attempted to escape. Unfortunately, at the time of the collision the two men were undercover and this was the problem that did not allow them to escape. Unfortunately, these two bodies are still abyssed to date. The big problem is that the Campania Region would have been able to claim compensation later on to this company, but it did not. The Campania Region could bear the economic burden to recover these two bodies and bring them back to family members, but it did not. Unfortunately, I am still there today, abyssed; therefore, in addition to once again urging the Region, I also ask the Presidency whether this problem can be dealt with; possibly, I am also prepared to provide further information. Thank you, President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u324	I thank you, Senator. I think it is important for the Presidency to be able to verify and take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u327	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I wonder what policy is for and who is it for? If Italian citizens do not always have answers to their real and daily problems and if we repeatedly witness monstrous occupational blackmails! I'm sorry, but today I'm very resentful. Today, a Swedish multinational company, Electrolux, with four factories in Italy, proposes the improbable: the nightmare of half wages of workers, the halving of life, autonomy, dignity and freedom of the citizen! Today's blackmail is this: either take what we want to give you or you're out! And what do we, in the name of political choices made in recent years, respond to these mocked, blackmailed and soon enslaved workers? They offer a half wage, a Polish cure, with occupational blackmail, reducing holidays and breaks and blocking the payment of holidays, saying that these are the standards. The 1,200 workers of the Porcia plant, the 800 of Forlì, the 900 of Solaro and the 1,000 workers of Susegana, together with the induced and their families, from now on what do they think of Italy and who governs this country? You have to give answers to these people. Italy has salaries among the lowest in Europe and the highest labour cost. Between the company and the workers there are those who have dictated the rules: the State. A company pays about two and a half times the real salary: once and a half to the State and a part to the worker. To give 1,400 euros net, Electrolux pays out about 3,500: and this is only the case of one of the many companies in this situation, which no longer count. Companies close and people become poor. Meanwhile, the headlines of television and the news, the talk shows and the printed paper continue to blabber on the fake media ballet of the secretary of PD Renzi and the convicted for tax fraud Berlusconi: we are outraged and we are offended, first of all as citizens. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] The real problems are those of the country's constant impoverishment! The representatives of the Italian companies Electrolux involved asked to meet tomorrow President Letta, because they waited in vain for a confrontation with Minister Zanonato. We in the 5 Star Movement feel close to people, to workers, to the unemployed, to their families, to citizens who no longer have a voice, by the force of not being heard. It would be quite worthwhile if the state did not sprinkle companies and workers with unclean taxation and immediately began to reduce it to give oxygen to the real economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u328	I invite you to conclude, Senator Paglini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u329	Mr Paglini (M5S). Why should a foreign company come to Italy, where all costs are higher and where the higher the cost of labour? The company will be gone, no doubt. We want answers. Outside these rooms is true despair: it is time to act. Gentlemen, let's not waste any more time. We want answers. Gentlemen, we're running out of time. We're running out of time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u330	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-176.ana.u331	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 29 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.17.
