ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I recall that yesterday's sitting concluded the examination of the articles and amendments tabled to draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u12	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five years have passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall - we will remember this next November - with its repercussions on the system of the parties of the first Republic (in Parliament there is no longer any of those that gave rise to the Constitution) and on the autonomous and regionalist demands, which did not by chance emerge at that stage. It is from the disappearance of the division of the world into two blocks that the Wall has symbolized - therefore, for at least twenty-five years - that the reasons for the repetitive bicameralism wanted by the Constituents have failed, in a process marked, more than in other countries, by the Cold War. It is not a mystery to anyone, in fact, that a weak system of government was wanted by the Constitution so that no political party could win to the end and no one could be cut off completely from the Government; a slow and repetitive Parliament would have been useful restraint, aimed specifically at exhausting any majority out of the ballot box, as demonstrated by what has happened in this House for weeks, and the presence of two Chambers invested with the same political powers and legislative powers is the most blatant contradiction, which has no equal in other parliamentary democracies. To be honest, not everyone expected the Wall to collapse to begin to reflect on the unresolved issues of the constituent process: the Bozzi Commission is from 1983 and it would suffice to recall the first incremental reforms, such as the one on the limitation of the secret vote. Giorgio Frasca Polara recalled in his writing that, in 1979, Nilde Iotti, then President of the Chamber, expressed three ideas on constitutional reform, which essentially correspond to the contents of the bill in question: enough with this absurd bicameralism perfect; enough with a thousand parliamentarians ('how many of them have China, but they are 1,300 million), institutionalized federalism transforming the Senate into the Chamber of Regions and local authorities ('cause the Senate could not be like the Bundesrat?). So Nilde Iotti in 1979. Not by chance, as evidenced by the work of the Commission of experts of the Letta Government, it is almost impossible to find arguments to defend the status quo. Yet the admired and uncritical contemplation of the past and the aversion and intolerance to every innovation is perhaps the most striking thing in the ongoing discussion on Senate reform. Thus for the critics of the reform a second Chamber elected by the regional councils and not by the citizens would in essence be a non-democratic institution; yet in Europe that of direct electivity is not at all a rule but all the opposite: the majority of the countries of the Union (15 out of 28) do not have a second Chamber; among the 13 that have a second Chamber only in five countries its members are directly elected by the citizens (and also in Spain a part of the members are drawn by the autonomous communities) and among these five Countries only in Italy, Poland and Romania the second Chamber has significant powers and only in Italy the Senate has the same powers as the Chamber of Deputies. The combination of the majority prize and the non-elective Senate would then be an attack on democracy, as if only a low chamber elected with a proportional system were compatible with a Senate not directly elected by the people. Of course, the perplexities (which are also ours) about an electoral bill, Italicum, which the President of the Council himself said he was willing to review, are legitimate; however, with this judgment the United Kingdom would be a very undemocratic system: Tony Blair won his third term with 35% of the votes and with this percentage Labour obtained 55% of the seats and the House of Lords is certainly not an institution elected by the people. The same thing in France, where, with 29 percent of the votes obtained in the first round, Hollande's Socialist Party won 53 percent of the seats in the National Assembly and the French Senate is not elected by the citizens. So if we get rid of the impossible defenses of the status quo, obviously a regional chamber can be done in many ways. A House that cannot but be a clear regional majority, because it is a place of dialogue between legislators, can be composed of the Regional Councils, similar to the Austrian experience (as in the text under consideration), the Juntas, therefore in a similar way to the German Bundesrat (as we would have liked), but also in conjunction with the voters at the time of the regional elections, as happens in Spain and as Senator Chiti proposed. Even on the powers, once the trust relationship has been discarded and consequently the equal powers, there can be a wide range of oscillation between the types of law that escape the prevalence of the House. It would suffice to read the volume on the work of the Commission appointed by the Letta Government to find arguments in favour of the various compositions and forms of referral. We do not understand, however, why raising the regions and local governments to the level of parliamentary institutions seems to some inadequate and even sacrilegious, forgetting that mayors and presidents of the Region are directly elected democratic authorities, who have nothing to envy in terms of democratic pedigree to senators and deputies [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups.]] It is also forgotten that much of the provision of social services, the implementation of laws, state policies and public expenditure depends on the action of the regions and municipalities. It is also forgotten that to place within the constitutional institutions the place of coordination between the legislation of the State and its implementation in the territories is an indispensable necessity for the proper functioning of the constitutional system, since our Constitution has already changed and, however we consider it, the reform of Title V has brought to the part of the Constitution that regulates the relations between State, Regions and local authorities profound changes, forgetting that precisely the lack of the parliamentary place of mediation is the main critical point of the reform and in lack of a room of compensation of interests the uncertainty has generated many conflicts and the Constitutional Court has found itself forced to settle issues that have a high degree of objectionability and therefore of politics. For this reason, the criticism that this would be a suprastructural reform seems completely out of focus, because eliminating the massive recourse to the Court of State and the Regions and giving certainty about the current legislation produces equally direct economic effects, because it brings predictability and stability in public decisions: it is enough to think about energy issues, major infrastructure networks and tourism. Of course, it is not enough to reform the Constitution to solve our problems. Madrid has grown again thanks to the most difficult reform: that of the labour market. It has also strengthened the training system for the unemployed and given a grip on unemployment benefits, which had taken on a huge weight in Spain. And we're going through here. We expect the government to address labour reform (and expenditure reduction, reform of justice, bureaucracy) with the same determination with which it faced Senate reform [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups and Senator Quagliariello.]] A profound transformation of Italy is needed and we must seize the opportunity offered by the crisis to trigger a process of alignment of Italy with the best European standards. Let me explain with an example: in the countries of the Union there is a police force for the widespread control of the territory and a police force for the fight against the great crime (this happens in all the OECD countries). In Italy there are six different and autonomous police force, not to mention the municipal police, often competing with each other and each in charge of dealing with everything, well beyond their specialization. The consequence is that we get, by spending 3 points of GDP (30% more than Germany), results lower than the others. The list could continue: it applies to defects in our civil justice or to the detachment of the Italian educational system from world best practices, etc. Here is benchmarking, the systematic comparison that allows companies that apply it to compare with the best and above all to learn from them to improve. You have to change. It's for the Senate. It's for everyone. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups.]] It is no coincidence that many of the project opponents have from the outset (in line with those social sectors for which the strengthening of political institutions would lead to a reduction in their power) distorted the debate by resorting to disproportionate propaganda arguments, speaking of authoritarian drift, of P2. There is no democracy on the one hand and an authoritarian or parafascist attempt on the other. Two conceptions of democracy are compared: one is assembly and is based on the so-called centrality of Parliament; the other is based on the responsibility of the Executives. The first was the peculiarity of Italy, that of the post-war period, part of the anomaly of a political system characterized by the lack of alternation. The second is the most advanced parliamentary systems. With the two referendums of 1991 and 1993 we have called into question the proportionality and the forms of assembly of our Parliament. Since then, we have passed the partnership democracy to establish a model of governing democracy. Since then, a transition has begun which now, 25 years after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, we can and above all must bring to completion. In the situation in which we are Italy needs change, needs confidence, needs reforms, and cannot afford the cultural delays of the old mirror left to those of the old right. We of Civic Choice for Italy will support as always this effort. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Senator Panizza Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u15	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the complexity of the constitutional reform that we are about to vote on at first reading is, in a comparative way, linked to forms of State and Government, territorial autonomy, sources of law, public administration, jurisdiction, constitutional justice and the protection of rights. This complexity could have indulged in further utilitarian or opportunity referrals and provisions, suspension of decisions. It wasn't like that. With courage he chose to give a concrete answer, I would say tangible, in a season that must be that of innovation: another season is not given to us. Of course, the reform we are going to vote on is far-reaching; it questions us and calls us to a heavy assumption of responsibility. It calls on us to take decisions that have been required for years, and with courage, with determination and with no backsliding trepidations or ponderous questions, we have taken on a heavy responsibility. The complex debate that has characterized these months has been a source of further discernment. Yet the decision season comes and this season has arrived, yes, at first reading, but it has arrived. The troubles and conflicts that have been going through our debates and votes have not, in spite of everything, been an obstacle, far from it. The draft reform law of Part II of the Constitution marks the first fundamental stage of a reform path that starts from the 1970s and has crossed multiple political scenarios. The stated objective is known, that is to offer a solution to the criticalities and dysfunctions of the institutional system, with the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism equal, entrusting the relationship of trust to the Chamber of Deputies and the representation of the autonomy to the Senate. We are at a crucial turning point, which marks the end of the culture of fear of change and which brings us closer to the other contemporary liberal democracies in which the Constitutions are, and must be, considered as always open yards. In Europe, this continuous work on the Constitutions is evidenced by the frequency of constitutional reforms, even in contexts where there is a good degree of stability, in which the form of the overall state is not in question. The comparative picture of the current structure of the Senate in Europe is rather articulated and difficult to trace to unity, mostly linked to the stories and to the political, territorial and institutional balances proper to each country. This is also because different - very different - are the systems of election, functions and powers. It can be said that the three widely prevailing factors that seem to emerge from the comparison concern the fact that the Senate is almost always foreign to the relationship of trust with the Executive; it is normally an expression of the territorial entities that constitute the State and exercises an institutional role of balance and reflection towards the Chamber, expression of the majority of Government. In particular, the direct electivity of the second chamber is not a rule at all: it does not involve direct election Germany, Austria, France, but also the United Kingdom and Canada. The Italian debate on constitutional reforms, which originated between the end of the seventies and the beginning of the eighties, is intertwined with the evolution of the party system, further opening up functional aspects to one or the other political-party objective. We recall the innovations suggested in the so-called Spadolini decalogue, in August 1982, and the work of the Bozzi Commission, which aimed to rationalise the existing parliamentary regime, leaving unchanged its underlying coordinates. Let us remember those proposed by Giuliano Amato, who pursued the broader objective of the "great reform," aiming to change the political system and who hypothesized the introduction in Italy of the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage. Let us remember the work of the bicameral Commission chaired by D'Alema, in which all the main political leaders joined, and the reform of 2005, which saw the parliamentary process completed, which, however, later lost the referendum. Attempts for reform, all these quoted, which failed for notes and various reasons. Instead, they focused on partial objectives, the so-called Amato-D'Alema project on the reform of the system of election of the Presidents of the Regional Councils and the statutory autonomy of the Regions with the constitutionalization of the so-called just process and, in 2001, the reform of the territorial autonomy (so-called reform of Title V of the Constitution). After a very in-depth and heated debate, to be honest, on many occasions, I think I can say that we have reached an innovative text, however perfect, as the Constitutional Charter provides, in the sequence of subsequent readings. I will not be here to examine the content of the reform specifically and in detail, as it is known to everyone, simply reminding me of the salient points, I dare say qualifying. Firstly, the new nature and the new functions of the Senate: a great novelty which, while it provides for its exclusion from the trust relationship with the Government, places it at the centre of the national and supranational constitutional order, in a position of link between the institutional bodies of the European Union, the State and the territorial authorities. Secondly, the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, without sacrificing the guarantees and the system of balances typical of our constitutional system, and in line with the models adopted by many other European countries. I recall this which deserves a clarification, because while it is true that the comparative picture on the European Senate is difficult to trace to unity, it can be said, however, that three are the recurrent characteristics that seem to emerge from the comparison: the alienity of the Senate to the relationship of trust with the Executive, its configuration as an expression of the territorial entities that constitute the State and, finally, its role of balance and reflection towards the Chamber, expression of the majority of Government. Our bill therefore fits into the more consolidated trend of contemporary constitutionalism and the Senate becomes a representative Assembly of Regions and Municipalities, according to a dominant model in comparative experience. Thirdly, the new legislation for the direct exercise of popular sovereignty, referendum and popular legislative initiative. Another point to stress, with regard to the referendum, is to have brought back to 500,000 the number of signatures needed and lowered the quorum necessary for the approval, where 800,000 were collected, and planned - absolute novelty - forms of referendum and direction. In addition, for the popular initiative bill we have increased to 150,000 signatures against the expected 250,000. Among the novelties introduced, it is worth mentioning the completion of the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, with a more rational attribution of the subjects of state and regional competence, thus overcoming the excesses and inconsistencies deriving from the reform of 2001; the reorganization of the system of territorial autonomy (with the abolition of the Provinces and the introduction of the metropolitan cities); the interventions on the delicate aspects of the relationship Parliament-Government. In conclusion of my brief speech, I would like to renew by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) For Italy the will to vote firmly on this measure, in the hope that, according to the readings that will come accordingly in the coming months, we can make those changes that the other legislators consider appropriate. Mr President, let me give you one last thought. I would like to thank you, all my colleagues and the rapporteurs, who have done a great deal of work. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u18	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms will not vote for this constitutional reform law. The LAG is, however, an animated Group with different sensitivities, so it is worth pointing out that some of the Group's colleagues will vote for it. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who have given me the opportunity to express this explanation of vote by giving strength to those who, in this House, are opposed to the many in favour. We really wanted to contribute to the rewriting of a new and modern Constitutional Charter, in which we would like to establish the table of rules on which to re-found a great democracy, to guarantee the efficiency of the institutions, but also to give substance to the freedom and equality of the Italian people and its right to effective participation in the decision-making processes. The first aspect that I would like to stress is that, when we discuss constitutional reforms, the method of the same reforms is fundamental. Only through a transparent and shared process between the political and social forces, can the so-called constitutional patriotism, which is the soul of the fundamental law and which is the criterion of interpretation of the same, i.e. the true legal canon destined to be passed as a witness to future generations, arise from the cultural confrontation between the most rooted expressions in the social sphere. Constitutional patriotism is synonymous with the pride of a people, which develops, precisely, from participation in the formation of the constitutional pact. The constitutional pact is between cultural and social forces; it is among citizens. Today, in a period of transformations that will affect the economy and the environment for years, it is also a contract between generations. The constitutional pact is not only between the parties or between the leaders of them. A constitutional reform cannot be the result of a contingent agreement. The result we have come to, I believe, is that we can define it as a great missed opportunity. While we felt an initial reformist fervor that animated everyone, Government, majority and opposition, we witnessed the lack of openness to a true and profound debate, a serene confrontation, which risks undermining the essence of the constituent force. The parliamentary path has been characterized by a growing gestures of institutional violation, which risk calling into question the dignity of the institutions themselves. We have seen political inadequacy in guaranteeing a free confrontation, a conduct sometimes uncertain and contradictory, continuous interference of the Government, and too many, inappropriate utterances, when not provocations, which from the outside have marked the parliamentary confrontation. Constitutional reform cannot be the face of the government in office: someone will be able to say 'are other times', 'today is different'. Others will be able to speak of naivety, as happens all the times when values are remembered in the face of the needs of those who only assert their strength. But it should be remembered once again in this House that the work of the constituent assembly was marked by the distinction between the Assembly itself, with the decisions it took as a result, and the governmental majority, at the time led by De Gasperi. In short, making the Constitution is not a thing and it is not a matter of the government majority alone. The majority always have the numbers to win, and they have them in every circumstance, but I feel a great sense of bitterness in thinking that this reform is the fruit of the strength of the majority in terms of times and procedures, as well as content. I don't know what the best system is in the form of government. I do not know whether presidentialism or parliamentary democracy is better, or whether it is even better for the Chancellor to evolve into the same parliamentary democracy in order to correct its instability and ignorance. I don't know, because there's never any way to be certain ex antes. It is enough to retrace the recent and troubled history that the great democracies of the world have experienced in order to find a balance between unifying forms of government and the true respect for the representativeness of the territories. What I know is that the Constitutions that have indicated the form of the Chancellor's government contain significant electoral constraints within them. What we are doing is exactly the opposite of a balanced system: we risk inventing a sort of pseudo-presidency without control, a reform in which we give a structure to a second House with the aim of having an Assembly of the self-governments, denying it autonomy, legitimacy, electoral dignity, and therefore democracy itself. How can we not be afraid that, without an electoral constraint, a majority that is artificially born, with additional rewards, will once again, and perhaps more, change the Constitution itself? How can we not be afraid that, while waiting for a democratic vote to do justice, the balance suffered, but also sometimes insufficient, which until now has guaranteed social serenity and civil coexistence, can be put at risk? How can we fail to be concerned that what is done is more than a great reform just a quick sacrifice as a remedy to anti-politics? A lame reform, smuggled to the citizens as the solution to all their problems: the work that is not there, the little precarious work that ends, the crisis that impoverishes every day the Mezzogiorno, the resources that are no longer there, the tax pressure that has become unbearable for all. All this will not solve the constitutional reform and it is dangerous and unfair to make it believe the Italians; indeed, the contingent use of the institutions also affects the fundamental law. But at this point it is understood that the same institutional framework risks becoming fragile and contributes to the structural weakening of the country. It may seem paradoxical, but it is precisely so: the idea that institutions can make themselves and dispose of themselves in a contingent way produces instability, which is reflected from the political plane on the economic one. Here the system of relations between government bodies and guarantee bodies, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, is being put in place in the first place; the system of autonomy is being redesigned in a centralised, yet confused, way. All this in the silence of the repercussions that this could entail. Thus, in a context of defining procedures, we would have expected that, at least in the Constitution, Italy's ascending stage of participation in Community law would have been regulated. The Senate has been reduced to a minimum, but the number of Members is not reduced at all, nor is anything established with regard to the legislative procedure in the House, as if that were a sort of independent variable and the legislative procedure could be at two speeds. In a rational framework, the whole process of the formation of laws would have been regulated, at least through the indication of certain fundamental criteria. How many kangaroos, regulatory quills, analog applications of deliberates and precedents good for every occasion have prevented the text from enriching itself with the many, excellent contributions proposed by the oppositions. And those in this House, who expressed that part of the Italian people who have made moderation and balance their identity card, have reunited themselves with defending these values. In the Chamber too many have chosen to undergo coercion or have only accepted a resigned passivity, thus contributing to the achievement of a symbolic result of those who identified tout court constitutional reform and results of government action. Of these profits, though repeatedly announced, I still do not see the traces. For these reasons, but in the indomitable hope that subsequent parliamentary passages may be characterized by the reconquest of responsibility, dignity and pride, we have decided not to participate in the final vote of the measure. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u21	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representatives of the Government, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE has shown that it wants to actively contribute to the constitutional legislature. Among the fundamental aspects of this process of constitutional revision are the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the significant reduction in the number of parliamentarians and the transformation of the Senate into a real Chamber of representation of territorial autonomy, on the model of the German Bundesrat. We have always declared ourselves in favour of a territorial Senate, and consequently non-elective, for a true and direct representation of the autonomy, which could not be guaranteed by direct election. Unfortunately, this reform only partially achieves these objectives. The new Senate will not be a real counterweight to the House of Deputies and will not have powers comparable to the Bundesrat while equal bicameralism is being overcome and the total number of parliamentarians is reduced. We also believe that the right balance has not yet been achieved between the institutions, particularly with regard to the election of the President of the Republic. From the perspective of the regions, we do not agree with this reform. On the contrary, we would have liked to see a strengthening of the federal or regionalist system of the reform of Title V of Part II of the 2001 Constitution. We have repeatedly expressed our concerns about a return to the centralization of powers and a weakening of the regions. The reform under consideration is not limited to transferring to the State certain competences entrusted by the 2001 reform to the regions, such as strategic infrastructure and large transport networks, the organisation of the professions, but rather to a genuine counter-reform compared to that of 2001. The legislative powers of the ordinary regions are reduced to a single sense, entirely in favour of the State, and this is not only with respect to the 2001 reform, but also with regard to the 1948 Constitution. The regions, for example, have always been competent for the government of the territory and for the protection of health, although they are bound to respect the principles of the state laws. These matters, which are the hard core of regional competences, will now be the exclusive responsibility of the State. The regional legislative competence remains very little, where the regions will have to comply with the general and common provisions of the laws of the State. As long as the scope of their respective competences is not fully clarified, the dispute before the Constitutional Court will certainly not diminish. One thing, however, is certain: the space for regional legislation will be much less than the present one, because it is one thing to have to respect the principles of national legislation, but it is not even to have to comply with the general and common provisions. In fact, the regions will no longer have a competing legislative competence, but only a less practical implementing competence. In the final analysis, the ordinary regions will thus be stripped of the most significant legislative competences and in the future they will be, even more than today, entities with mainly administrative tasks, therefore, a sort of macro municipalities. Even the inclusion of a new state supremacy clause will not help to reduce litigation. On the contrary, we believe that, due to its indeterminateness, it will again be a source of constitutional conflicts. The problem of uncertainty, relating to the division of legislative competences between State and Regions, is resolved, in our opinion, specifying more clearly the different areas of competence of State and Regions, providing a detailed catalogue of subjects, in order to clearly identify who competes with what. With the new article 117, second paragraph, of the Constitution has taken a fair step in this direction, but it is not satisfactory to offset the amount of already regional competences transferred to the State. Therefore, the right balance has not yet been found as to the necessary adjustment of the competences between the State and the Regions after the 2001 reform. With this reform of Title V of Part II, we make the same mistake we made in 2001, even if in reverse. Until a few years ago, we witnessed, at national level, an obsessive repetition, a chant that found its own watchwords in federalism. All the evil came from the central state. Now, after the scandals in many regions, the trend has been reversed: all the evil lies in the too much autonomy of the Regions and the central state has returned to fashion. But fashions, we know, pass, and we do not reform a Constitution in reaction to scandals, even serious ones. The haste is, moreover, bad counselor and we would have wished ourselves a deeper and more articulated reflection on the basic orientation that inspires this reform. However, it would not be right to evaluate only the critical aspects of the reform, without taking into account the positive aspects. For the Gruppo Per le Autonomie it is essential to safeguard the competences and powers of the Special Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, some protected by international agreements. From this point of view, the present reform is certainly positive, because it excludes the special regions from the application of the new Title V and requires the adaptation of the Statutes to a future constitutional law, introducing the pact clause also in the Constitution. Once this constitutional reform enters into force, it will be up to the Government, the Parliament and the special self-governments to open negotiations to address the sensitive issues of the future development of autonomy. As far as the composition of the new Senate is concerned, we have managed to guarantee a balanced representation of the Special Regions, in particular of the two autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano: each Autonomous Province will be represented by two senators and thus is equal to a Region. In view of the particular ethnic-linguistic composition of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, it is also expected that the representative of the mayors and that of the Provincial Council will be elected on separate lists, in order to facilitate the representation of the Italian language group, as requested by measure 111 of the so-called 1969 package concluded between Austria and Italy. As an Autonomous Group, sensitive to the protection of all linguistic minorities, we have tabled an amendment aimed at adding the representation of the Slovenian linguistic minority of the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Unfortunately, there have been no political conditions in the Commission or even less in this House to solve the problem of the representation of the Slovenian linguistic minority, given also the small number of senators assigned to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region. Our hope is that this issue, like the other issues I have just raised, can be resolved during the examination of this measure in the House of Deputies. On the other hand, we are pleased and satisfied that an amendment tabled by the Misto-SEL Group has been incorporated in the House, proposing that the protection of linguistic minorities be included in the subjects which must be the subject of collective exercise of the legislative procedure by the two Chambers. We also welcome the acceptance, already in the Commission, of our request on the German name also of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano in the Constitution. I shall conclude, Mr President, by announcing, albeit with all the concerns raised so far regarding the critical issues contained in the reform text, the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u24	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I start my speech, I would like first of all to thank the Group of the North Legacy, which has followed closely the whole debate on constitutional reforms, particularly to Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, who from the outset worked in the Commission to try to amend this text of this constitutional reform. Mr President, we are the North League. We were born to reform this country. We have reforms in our DNA, because our detractors also recognize that we are a reformist movement. We have been talking about federalism and autonomy for more than twenty years in our offices. We believe so much in the reforms that during the Berlusconi Government the League decided to put to the Ministry of Reforms the only person who in Italy had the intuition to speak of federalism as a solution to the problems of this country: Umberto Bossi. Our federal secretary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We are so convinced that this country needs reforms that, in those years of the Berlusconi Government, managed to bring home a serious constitutional reform, the devolution, rejected by the popular referendum also thanks to the votes of that left led by that Romano Prodi who wanted to sit at the Quirinale not more than a year ago. We have so much on the subject that a constitutional revision must be perfect for us. We don't settle for a reform and we don't like mess. Reforms must be made to last as long as possible. The reforms made only to fill the pages of the next day's newspapers, we leave them to others. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]] For these reasons we shared the words of the President of the Republic on the day of his election. That is why we have committed ourselves from the very first moment to a serious and authoritative reform. For these reasons the Northern League, once again, has made available to this country the best man in the matter of reforms of all Italian politics: Roberto Calderoli. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]] We had expectations, Mr President: the Reformist League confronting a young President-in-Office of the Council who was rampant and apparently reformist. The expectation of a process of reform of the Constitution that could run alongside a series of reforms and measures to revive the economy and society (one complementary to the other), in the awareness that the importance of the reform of the Constitution did not take over the need to grow the economy and give a decent future to our citizens. The debate on the Senate, Title V, the Regions could not and should not stifle the debate on culture, prisons, competitiveness, economy and public administration. The analysis of the future of Italian institutions, municipalities, provinces, regions, Chambers and Senate could not be reduced to a mere list of which among these institutions is more fashionable. The structure of Italian public bodies had and has its own history, its own balance, its own logic. Now we're in absolute chaos. A chaos started by that Government that has many similarities with this: the Monti Government, the most centralist government of recent years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But expectations, Mr President, have given way to disappointment. After a good start in the work in the Commission, where the bad text proposed by the Government has undergone significant improvements, and where some openings had allowed us to see a good debate in the Chamber on the topics and given the hope that there might be a discussion on the content, we had to undergo a sudden change of strategy with a little gear that left little room for discussion and content. Speed, tight times, decisions taken elsewhere, matching the electoral law. A suspicious haste and the will to dictate the times to stiffen those who instead wanted a serious discussion on the contents. A decision-making typical of the beginning of the twentieth century, which has seen many of us disappointed, in particular, I do not want other colleagues, those senators at the first legislature who hoped to be active protagonists of an epochal change. We have found ourselves merely ratifying decisions made elsewhere, among those who are in a hurry to close with at least a reform before the holidays and those who for three years now have been looking with more interest to the left than to their voters. Too bad! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Once again, an opportunity has been missed. In a few weeks, while our entrepreneurs close or flee abroad, while exodus do not see a future, young people do not find a job, pensioners do not arrive at the end of the month, while we suffer an illegal invasion, while it is decided to give 8 euros per month to criminals instead of helping teachers or honest people, while they tell us that we are in recession and that the 80 euros have served very little, the priority, the only priority, the mission of this Government has been: the constitutional reform by August 8th! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And then, Mr President, let us set a time to silence those who had something to say and propose an idea, an alternative! If you think and talk, you're dangerous. If you think, maybe you don't vote in line with the maneuver, so you're an enemy to insult as a senator. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Kangaroo: If you have too many ideas you can't stand in the way of the triumphal march. If you have too many ideas you write too much. If you write too much, it means you're an armchair and you want to slow down, so do obstruction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Sitting in the river: if you are an armchair senator who has too many ideas, you should be punished. You must earn your salary, dear Senator! So, he works from 9.30 a.m. to 24, while he travels around the world, inaugurates highways (taking credit not his own), receives the Concordia, the tennis players and the spads. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Regulations: we are in the Senate, the free zone of laws and regulations. Here the authentic interpretations are not authentic, they are by majority shots! Everything and the opposite of everything! Don't think, don't talk, don't write: vote only according to directions, and vote quickly that there is no time! It doesn't matter if you kill the debate on important issues and ask for confidence: those are issues that need to be resolved quickly, they are pebbles in a shoe, annoying, that nobody cares about. Public administration: confidence. Competitiveness: confidence. Culture and tourism: trust. Prisons: trust We are in the Senate: we are annoying, we are the ones to close and show the Italians as a useless thing! Also on the reforms: a few hours to deal with an important topic such as Title V and the Regions. Minutes for referendums. Mr President, we were hoping to be protected (in this I am addressing you): in the way we work and in the image of one of the two branches of Parliament elected by Italian citizens; in the dignity of those who voted for us and believe in our work. We hoped for authority from those who had the task of presiding over the Senate. Authority in decisions and coordination of work. Protected by the constant references of those who do not know the Senate: a President of the Council who does not know us. The current mayor of Florence who allows himself to judge us. The Undersecretaries - who, fortunately, are not here today - are showing us the working times. We are also disappointed in this. And we expected another behavior from the President of the Republic. Too bad. A missed opportunity! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And it is precisely because of this disappointment, because we believed ourselves, because we are the League, Mr President, that we cannot share this failed experience with you. We have worked hard, Mr President, but the lack of results, attitudes and the path we have taken so far have convinced us that you do not even deserve our vote. You vote for this reform. We can't be an accomplice to the people who are sinking the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto SEL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that the first reading of constitutional reform ends just as a new phase of recession is taking place in Italy: the worst figures of the last fourteen years. The reform, in particular that of the Senate, has been marketed for months as a necessary preliminary step; the prefix, as the President of the Council says, for economic recovery and for obtaining the famous flexibility in Europe. The facts, unfortunately, indeed the figures, confirm that it is only demagogic propaganda. The overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, declined here as the construction of a Senate no longer elective, useless and messy, does not have any positive effect on the economy and will certainly not produce it in Europe to loosen the links of rigor and austerity. On the contrary, having wasted months chasing institutional reforms as a step of office, instead of immediately putting in hand the real emergencies of the country, which are the crisis, unemployment, the now permanent injury of workers' rights, their humiliation, the lack of future for an entire generation, has produced negative effects. The only advantage for the government and for the President of the Council was a diversionary effect, a smokescreen, distracting the attention from the really painful point, to focus it on a fake emergency, but easy to exploit demagogically. If the reform did not involve and will not bring any advantage in terms of economic recovery, it will, on the other hand, cause a dry damage to the democratic aspect of our country. If we consider this reform and the electoral one as a single and integrated complex, the objective, as evidenced by many constitutionalists (lastly, in order of time, Gustavo Zagrebelsky on the Republic) is evident: to overthrow the balance between powers defined by the Constitution of '48 to assign to the legislative power, to Parliament, an ancillary function with respect to the executive power, to the Government. Parliament's task, as Zagrebelsky writes, will only be to be the faithful executor of the Government's decisions, initiating in fact the modification of the form of government. We have seen the general evidence in recent years, with Parliament reduced only to converting the decrees of the Government, and we have seen it in the last few days in this House. A minority party, thanks to Italicum, son of the pact with Berlusconi, will hold all the reins and can do so without taking into account those burdens and counterweights that constitute the soul of modern democracies both parliamentary and presidential. We say only one party, but in the reality of Italy today it would be more correct to say only one leader: the secretary of the strongest minority party. At best, this leader will be chosen by the primary, i.e. by elections that are not planned or regulated by law. You are now creating an absurd situation, a constitutional monster that will entrust all powers to an elected leader under rules that are neither laid down nor codified by law. There is a second ratio in this reform, consistent and homogeneous to the first. It is the drastic removal of their remaining powers from the citizens. To make the Senate non-elective in order to put an end to the perfect bicameralism remains a mystery never explained in all these months by who has decided it. Added to an electoral law that provides for an abnormal majority prize, very high barrier thresholds (to Turkish) and non-existent preferences (so it is impossible for citizens to choose their elected ones) this reform inevitably leads to the creation of a Parliament of nominations, in which the word of the electoral corps will matter little or nothing, and this represents a real crusade with the sense of representative democracy. Everything in the text you are about to approve goes in this direction. It is no coincidence that, instead of implementing all the instruments of direct democracy, you have taken another path, further reducing the power of citizens; for example, the possibility of using the laws of popular initiative, however raising the number of signatures, even if a double track has been created for referendums. It is not even by chance that the declared urgency to put an end to the perfect bicameralism has stopped, by chance, on the threshold of immunity. On this point, and only on this point, you have decided to fully confirm the perfect bicameralism, granting immunity not only to those elected by the citizens, but to those appointed by the party, by the group leaders of the regional councils or by the party secretaries. I say "you have decided," because that is what happened. This is not, as it should be, a reform decided by Parliament: it is the reform imposed by the majority to the minority, and by the Government to the majority itself, using every means. The Constitution of '48 was the cornerstone of the Republic because it was shared; it was the synthesis of different ideas, of different world views, but, in the end, it was the fruit of a sharing. But this is the reform of one half of Parliament, which did not want to discuss it, agree it, or even just plain it by listening to the other half of Parliament. The Constitutions lay down rules intended to apply not for a few years, but for decades. The validity and effectiveness, the rate of democracy of those rules, are measured not on majorities, inevitably led to consider the immediate advantages, but on minorities, who must feel guaranteed and participate in the pact that the Republic should hold for the next decades. In this case, an opposite situation has arisen: minorities have been systematically ignored, even when they made completely reasonable proposals, which had nothing to do with an attempt to sabotage, but aimed exclusively at making reform better, democratic and more effective together. The temptation to face such a delicate and important passage with muscle strength prevailed, the gaze aimed only at the return of image in terms of propaganda, without respect for the rules, accusing anyone who dared to pose doubts or alternative proposals to be an enemy of change. Faced with this absolute deafness of the Government and the majority, we of Left Ecology and Freedom and the all Senators of the Mixed Group, whom I thank for the great work of these days [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups]] , we chose to fight the reform by the only means we had available. Our 6,000 other amendments were the only possible defense against real obstructionism, that of the government and the majority. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] We did the right thing. Having prevented the Constitutional Charter from being rewritten at the label, between late July and August, without the great majority of the country really knowing what it was about, is nevertheless an important result for us, a success, because citizens now know what we are talking about. The fact that there is still a confirmation referendum is not a graceful concession, but an important result that is all due to the commitment and the cross-cutting battle that has taken place in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-ILC Groups.]] From tomorrow this battle will move from the Senate to the House and above all to the country, in view of a referendum that the Government hoped to transform into a plebiscite. But it didn't go the way the government hoped in this House and it doesn't go the way the government hopes in the country and in the polls of the referendum [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-ILC Groups.]] Today is only the beginning of our battle and today begins the challenge of building committees for the no to this reform and together that to save this country, to which we love, from economic, social and democratic decline. You delude yourself that you have won, but you know that in the end the wisdom of the citizens will send back to the sender this reform of yours, which represents a real disruption of the constitutional architecture born from the sacrifice of our fathers, our grandparents and our mothers. In order to do so you have upset the Rules of Procedure, bending it to the wishes of the Government and the majority. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-ILC Groups]] This is why SEL senators and all the Senators of the Mixed Group cannot legitimize you even with the vote against and therefore will not participate in the final vote. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-ILC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u30	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, first of all I would like to thank Mr Boschi and the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli, for allowing this reform, which also marks their footprint, to take advantage of Parliament's work and reunite itself with a path that starts from a farther away; a path that has moved since the beginning of this parliamentary term, from the working group desired by President Napolitano, which later developed with the Letta Government in the deepening of the Commission for Reforms and which has now reached its culmination in substantial continuity. Mr President, allow me also to thank the senators of the New Right Centre. Because it is difficult to carry out your beliefs, but it is even more difficult to accept them to submit to the silent and patient mediation in the name of a higher interest: the achievement of a result that Italy has been waiting for for too long. I would also like to thank them because, if today we lay the first stone of the third time of the Republic, it is due to those senators and those Members who, just under a year ago, with a painful and courageous act together, have saved the legislature and with it the reforms [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]] Today, after a parliamentary process that has seen us at the forefront, with seriousness, without clamor, we can claim a decisive contribution to the improvement of this reform. There are many steps forward in the text. The original abnormal presence of the mayors has been reduced, against which we have nothing but which, unlike the regional councillors, do not legislate. The number of those appointed by the President of the Republic has been drastically reduced from 21 to 5. It has been prevented that a Senate freed from the relationship of trust with the Government could impose decisive conditions on budgetary laws. At the same time, the Senate was given dignity, giving it powers not only on the autonomy but also on the link with the European Union and greatly strengthening its control functions. A uniform basis of legitimacy for the members of the Senate has been guaranteed. It has been prevented from giving in to moralism and political correctness by exposing an Assembly, which in any case changes the Constitution and elects the Head of State, to the possible alteration of its plenum due to restrictive measures of personal freedom not subject to Article 68. And again, on Title V, the division of competences between the State and the Regions has been better defined, recovering to the first subjects of pre-eminent national interest, such as the environment. The commissioning of municipalities and regions in financial failure has been planned. The principle of standard costs and requirements has finally been incorporated into the Constitution. Finally, and also of this the New Right Centre is proud, it has been committed that, whatever the numbers in Parliament will be in support of the reform, the citizens will have the last word through the referendum confirmation. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]] Colleagues, the act we are about to take today is a historic fact and it gives credit to this House which, after 30 years, puts an end to a paradox considered insurmountable: that of the reformer who must reform himself. It never happened, not just in Italy. What we are doing, in fact, is not to degrade the Senate, but to change the face and substance of our bicameralism. The perfect bicameralism that we have known so far met the needs of the historical time in which it was introduced. On the eve of the Cold War, Italy experienced deep uncertainty about the future arrangements. The brake of a Reflection Chamber and, at the same time, a time of sedimentation, was in everyone's interest. The new bicameralism will respond to a different logic, to the needs of our time. It will correct the distortions of the current Title V and will make the legislative process much more streamlined and faster, because in the era of global markets we can no longer afford a time to approve the laws more than double the average of our European competitors. This kind of intervention, with regard to the whole of our institutional architecture, Minister, is intended to lead to imbalances in other gear mechanisms. We have seen some of them in the course of the parliamentary work of these weeks, when we have asked ourselves - not always with a solution at hand - about the election of the President of the Republic, about the degree of democratic legitimacy of an Assembly of the self-governments called, however, to put their hand to the Charter and to elect constitutional bodies, about possible counterweights to ensure that the sacrosanct principle of governability does not slip into the power of the majority. Nobody denies these problems. But there were two ways to deal with them. The first was to believe that the correction of possible imbalances should be sought by attenuating the innovative scope of the reform of bicameralism. It is certainly a legitimate idea, but in my opinion it is not acceptable, because hybridizing the new structure with remnants of the old one, for example on the part of the legislative process, would have meant taking away from the government instruments and not giving it new ones in the fight against public expenditure and debt. To be clear, when we create a Chamber of Independents not bound by the relationship of trust with the Government, we must give it the maximum in terms of control functions and competences over the processes of devolution, both towards Europe and towards local authorities; but it is not conceivable to give it a decisive role in political decisions and, above all, in the choices that affect the budget of the State. Otherwise, we would have put future governments in a position to deal with the Senate by widening the strings of the stock exchange, with the consequences that we can all imagine. The other philosophy in the field was ours, that of those who believe that the adjustments to the rebalancing of the system should be sought in the other chapters of our institutional structure. So in being more reformist, no less reformist. That is why we believe that today's is only the first step; that we must move forward and tackle without fear the reform of the form of government; that we must consider semi-presidency as a centre of gravity capable of balancing the system, which certainly cannot be done through an amendment. And we also believe that the new bicameralism cannot be ignored when - soon - we are going to deal with the issue of electoral law. You see, on theltalicum we will not conduct a battle of partisan interest. We will conduct an open-faced system battle, on which we hope the convergence of all the forces interested in building institutions that stand harmoniously, beginning with the forces of majority. Because in front of a Senate with election of second degree would be intolerable a House of nominations. Because, in the presence of a single political chamber, once the governability is assured, it would be unthinkable to compress the whole space of representativeness. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] Because it is right that those who vote can know who wins and who wins can rule, but the counterweights of the old bicameralism have failed, victory must however be based on numbers that allow it not to enter into conflict with democratic legitimacy. Senator colleagues, government gentlemen, a 1,000-day bet opens before us today, to which we are called to participate with a constituent spirit. We started by changing ourselves, we will have to finish the path by changing Italy. We have before us a great opportunity and the awareness that there will hardly be another. For this reason, first of all, the New Right Centre will say yes to this reform. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u33	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Senators and senators, I sincerely expected the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, to arrive in the Senate Hall today, perhaps just in time to pin the Saviour of the Homeland medal on his chest. At this moment the 5 Star Movement does not intend to speak to either the Government or to a President-in-Office of the Council who for weeks has gone on TV to be beautiful, presenting himself as the man of dialogue, and then, in this House, he has always refused to come and confront us. So much for confrontation! We want to speak to the Italians, the only real interlocutors to whom we have to account for the work we do in this House, the only ones to whom we feel we have to explain what is happening in these black days for democracy and for the country. This sad story begins with the hoax of an emergency that is not there. Renzi told us that reforms are needed to restart the country and that, among all, the most urgent, urgent, was the reform of the Constitution! But, dear Italians, couldn't we really survive without this reform? Really in the evening, when you come home and turn into bed without being able to sleep, do you think about the reform of the Constitution? When the bills arrive, every month higher and higher, and you don't know how to pay them, even at that moment you think about the reform of the Constitution? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] When you can't do a CT scan quickly, because it costs hundreds of euros from the private, and then, patients, you put yourself on waiting lists even a few years long, is it the Constitution you blame? Tell us, because if that's the case, we don't understand anything and we apologize. But if you, too, have some concerns about the fact that, among the priorities that this country needs to get up and get back on track, perhaps there was something more important than changing the Constitutional Charter, then you know that you are not alone in thinking it. Since they want us to believe that without reform we don't eat, and we don't want to stay without bread, then let's talk about it. Renzi tells us that this reform finally cuts the costs of politics. But if he really wanted to impress the caste and seriously cut waste and injustice that we can no longer tolerate today, he could at least accept our suggestions. We asked him to take the opportunity to cut the number of Members, including Members, but Renzi said: no. We asked him to put a ceiling on their salaries. The 5 Star Movement has already halved the allowance, both in the House and in the Senate. But it is not enough, it is necessary that all the parliamentarians of the Republic do so, but Renzi said: no. We asked him to take away the lives of the condemned MEPs, but Renzi said: no. He has announced that the new Senate will be cheaper, but this is also a hoax, because the new senators will enjoy all the benefits of the caste: reimbursements expenses, paid trips, hotels in Rome, salaries of the collaborators. In this new Senate - it is right that you know, citizens - Italians will no longer be able to catch. I will be more brutal: citizens will no longer be able to elect senators. The right to vote is raided to give it to party secretaries: they will appoint future senators, choosing them from mayors and regional councillors. Yes, you understand, citizens: those regional advisors you've heard so much about because they bought underwear (lords) and bra (girls), with your money; those of insane expenses surveys and make-up refunds. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] those who ate with low hands, as long as they could, from Trentino to Basilicata. The 5 Star Movement called for a clean Parliament, where the condemned cannot enter. Renzi, instead, these gentlemen take them to the Senate and also give them immunity, the shield, in case justice wants to stick its nose in things that should not concern you. With our proposals for a truly economical new Senate, really democratic and really clean, we thought we could compare with Renzi and the Government, but this was not the case. Our 200 amendments have all been rejected. In the Chamber the soundtrack that accompanied the votes of the reform was always the same: rejected, rejected, rejected, rejected. None of our proposals have been approved. So where's the dialogue? Who saw the confrontation? In this House we have only seen a Minister tweeting and dispensing smiles to the benches of Forza Italia, a majority that has the courage to vote against the Government only when there is a secret vote and a President of the Senate who prevented oppositions from fully expressing themselves, because it was necessary to do it quickly, even if we were voting on the expenditure list. Here, instead, we are talking about the Constitution: how much more important and sacred exists for the institutions. Instead, this reform of the Constitution you wanted to vote in haste and fury. Why? Just to let Renzi take a selfie with the Senate Chamber behind him and say on Twitter how cool he is? When everything was decided, when our opposition role was finally down, we decided to leave the Chamber, and we also did so to draw attention to the real priorities of the country, which at this time are not institutional reforms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The country today calls for serious and concrete responses to the economic crisis and to the lack of work, and asks for them for businesses, for families, for large and small companies who have been standing on the stakes for years. That is why the 5 Star Movement had called for economic measures to be brought to the Chamber immediately. These were to be discussed urgently, not the fake Senate reform! And this, dear senators and senators, is not obstructionism, this is a sense of responsibility, that sense of responsibility that the President of the Council lacks. Renzi thought to enchant the Italians with the history of 80 euros. Then, three days ago, Confcommercio first revealed that these 80 euros did not change the situation of the country by a comma, because consumption is firm and the savings did not grow, the economy did not recover. The 80 euros that restart Italy are another hoax coming out of Renzi's fantasy world. Renzi failed! The ISTAT, then, took a merciless picture of this poor country: GDP has fallen by 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent on an annual basis: such a result has not existed for 14 years. There is no propaganda slide that holds, President Renzi: we are bogged down in a technical recession. And instead you and your minister Padoan said that growth would be around 0.8% at the end of 2014. A mistake that costs Italians 17 billion euros. Renzi, you failed! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The rate of youth unemployment today is 43.7%, the highest in the last ten years, but the measures at work are closed in a drawer, postponed to September, because at this moment it is more important to tweet about Senate reform, a Senate without more powers but with the same costs as ever. Renzi, you failed! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And no one tells us that this is how things are going throughout Europe, because we know very well that even countries that have gone through a deeper crisis than we are today are recovering. Renzi, even here, you failed! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Just thinking, ladies and gentlemen, about what will happen in the autumn, frankly, gives me the creeps. Renzi and Padoan continue to say that tears and blood will not be needed, but how can they lie so shamelessly? How will they face a public debt that has increased by 96 billion since the beginning of the year, with a growth of 4.7%? Perhaps 20 to 25 billion will be needed to correct the accounts. What do you think, citizens, is this money where they're going to get it? Will they cut the gold pensions of the big managers? Will they tax the big assets? None of that. This is what they will do: they will touch the minimum pensions again, they will touch the current accounts of Italians with a forceful levy, they will increase tickets, school fees, they will cut funds to public health and school. What the last governments have always done. Dear Italians, before everyone's eyes, there is that this Government has failed. If this majority had its back straight, if it were not blackmailed by an incompetent but arrogant Government, if this political class were better than the country it represents, then what to do would be clear to everyone: you, citizens, would challenge this Government too. The 5 Star Movement this government has already distrusted it and mistrust even today. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I will hand over the rest of the text, which I intended to read and which consists of a document containing hundreds of e-mails, which have arrived these weeks in the mailbox of all the senators: the e-mails containing the amendments that the Italians would have liked to include in the constitutional reform. In fact, power belongs to the people and not to the Government and to the President of the Council! [[Senator Petrocelli goes to the bench of the Presidency to deliver the document to the Offices. All Senators of the M5S Group leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u34	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u37	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the first stage of a reform process which will still be long and complex, not without obstacles, not without difficulties, not without contrasts. It is the first step, only the first step, but perhaps the most important one. Finally, even in Italy, in a climate of mutual legitimacy, which was also proper to that constituent Assembly that elaborated the Constitution that we are going to update today, it is possible to work on reforms together and in a shared way, without constraints of deployment, identifying a high mediation between different political stories and different institutional cultures. The rules are written together: you can and in my opinion you have to write together. This is just the beginning. But we do not fall into the trap of well-offness, of the continuous revival that never leads to anything. A step in the right direction is certainly not the whole path, but for this reason one cannot give up on it. It does not make sense and it is not in the interest of the country to dismiss the good by calling for the best. In this House, words like these have been expressed in the past, and I quote: we want to make the Senate a dead House, (...) without any functions, national representation, and the Presidents of the Regions. Yes, we have heard many of these words in this House; Senator Gavino Angius, Leader of the Left-Ulivo Democrats, spoke them in an explanation of vote on the constitutional reforms of the Berlusconi Government. It was the year 2005. Forza Italia from the beginning adopted a very different line from the opposition that then made the left. We have decided to support with equal dignity and responsibility the reforms proposed by the Government, as only a mature and conscious force is able to do. It is this determination that has allowed us to recognize, appreciate and affirm those principles that make the current reform the natural evolution of the one initiated by the Berlusconi Government in 2005 and abruptly interrupted by an ideological and wrong referendum. And the country, meanwhile, has lost ten years. Allow me to make another quote after the one of the leader Angius. I quote: 'It is also necessary to reform the current bicameral system which, even for the excessive number of parliamentarians, involves unnecessary waste of work and lengthening of decision-making procedures such as no modern democracy could and can bear. This reform will have to be in the direction of transforming the second chamber into a representative body of local self-governments. These are the words of the leader of Forza Italia, Mr Berlusconi, who today - as you know - does not sit in this House for a vulnus to democracy that has not yet healed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] But I want to bring you at least his words and tell you that they were not spoken today and not even in 2005: they were spoken in the Chamber of Deputies on 2 August 1995. Let me tell you, how much time we've lost. And, if sometimes the desire is to abandon everything, to abandon this House, to all of us Senators of Forza Italia, who have witnessed impotent events on 27 November 2013, we Senators of Forza Italia are not allowed to do this. Our leader, our voters and the country require us to remain, preserve and keep firm the will and determination to build a new Italy. We have finally overcome bicameralism, outlining a more streamlined parliamentary structure and legislative process, with a clear distinction of roles and functions between the two chambers. The Senate will respond to that role of representation of the institutions and local autonomy, of the national parliament's roots on Italian territory. The House of Deputies will be able to be faster and more efficient in law-making in an ever changing and ever faster world. We have finally corrected the twists of a Title V messed up by a sudden reform wanted by the left in 2001. We have re-distributed in a clear and distinct way, without any overlaps and grey areas, the functions attributed between the State and the Regions. But be careful: this is not a reform far from the citizens. It will have concrete effects on the everyday life of families and companies in terms of greater efficiency of institutions, certainty of authorization processes, speed of legislation. We will have a more modern state for a country that no longer pursues the past, but can finally plan the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We would have wanted to do more, of course: we would have wanted to change the form of government, strengthening the powers of the Premier or directing the election of the Head of State to make the relationship between citizens and politics more direct. Mr President, we are working loyally on reforms, but this cooperation cannot hide the deep political and intervention differences in economic matters. The contraction of GDP for the second consecutive quarter is not only the technical confirmation of the recession, but is the logical and inevitable consequence of a policy made only of promises and announcements [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] ; of a sequence of saves Italy, grows Italy, simplifies Italy, destination Italy and unlocks Italy. The result for Italy is less than 0.2 percent of GDP in the second quarter of 2014. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is the result of technical governments and not that they have followed each other in the last three years: perhaps it is better for Italians to save themselves by choosing the government through free elections. The government does not recognize the merit of having cut taxes; rather you have transferred them, you have changed their name, you have forgotten the weakest and the most unsuited as elderly, incompetent and self-employed, but above all you have forgotten the companies, the only possible lever for recovery. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] InForza Italia you will find a true, loyal and responsible opposition. I believe you will acknowledge this: however and always we will work in the interest of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Allow me, before I conclude, to thank the Senate Offices for their work at such a delicate time in the history of this House. [[Live, general, prolonged applause]] It is not a greeting, because good and capable technicians the Senate will also need in the structure designed by this reform. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and members of the 1st Commission for the commitment, fairness and balance that have enabled us to bring this text today to the first overall vote in this House. Finally, I want to thank the whole House and, in particular, the Senators of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] With them we shared these weeks of difficult choices and hard daily work. Today the Senate shows that it is not a caste perched in defense of its own interests, but a body of legislators up to the privilege of representing our nation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This reform bears two signatures, that of Matteo Renzi and that of Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Without the capacity for dialogue, shared sense of institutions, mutual legitimacy between the leaders of the majority and the opposition, it would not have been possible to arrive here today. We are writing a historical page of the Republic's life not so much for the merit of the reform, which is also important, but for the method through which we have come to write it. We are indicating a path through which we will really be able to make Italian democracy more mature, more efficient, more European. We at Forza Italia will be there; Silvio Berlusconi will be there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u40	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am very sorry that senators have left the Chamber. I am sorry, because when you do not agree and leave the Chamber, this does not correspond to my idea of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Mancuso and Quagliariello.]] The harshness of the debate over the last few weeks is a sign of the importance of a reform that is touching on constitutional issues on which Parliament has been working for decades without resolving them. It is vital that this time Italy succeeds. Our public system needs reforms finally implemented, not just imagined. On the new Senate, on the new competences between the State and the Regions, on the definitive abolition of the Provinces and the CNEL we have widely expressed ourselves in a very long debate. I shall confine myself, therefore, to setting out only the basic, political and institutional reasons for which the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the reform. But first, Mr President, let me thank all the senators who have worked constructively on the reform, because it is their merit if it goes through. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Mancuso and Quagliariello.]] To the speakers Finocchiaro and Calderoli a special thanks. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Mancuso and Quagliariello.]] Their work has been very hard and difficult and they have done it with a rare expertise. And thanks to Minister Boschi for the quality of the constant commitment with which he followed the work of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Mancuso and Quagliariello.]] The vote of the Senators of the Democratic Party is based on the awareness that the solution to the dramatic Italian crisis is so long and so complex because we have not only a weak economy, but also old institutions, a sick political system, inadequate public administrations. In a word, our state is fragile and its articulations are fragile, from Parliament to the Government, from justice to tax, from public works to school. We must move from recession to development and fight unemployment. But we will never be able to do so unless we are able to defend our democracy and, together, make it more efficient if we do not have a public machine that can compete internationally. The close relationship linking institutional efficiency to competitive inability has not been given sufficient attention. They say Merkel, Cameron, Hollande and Juncker don't care about Senate reform. I think that's a questionable statement. Europe has many serious limitations, first of all the delay in the construction of political unity, but it has never interfered with the structure of the institutions of the individual nations. However, it is wrong to think that European leaders do not know that Italy is the only (I say the only) country in the Union that still has an equal bicameralism and that this condition is a serious obstacle to our decision-making ability. Effective legislative power, I would say to Senator Petrocelli if he were here, and the duration of governments are the minimum conditions for development, that is the point. It is no coincidence that the Senate, where dissent has not been lacking, is unanimous on a fundamental point: the perfect bicameralism must end. On this passage, which is the heart of the reform, we have found ourselves almost all and it is not little. With positions present on all sides, we have divided ourselves on how equal bicameralism has to be changed, not on whether it is. On many issues, our debate in this House has been profound and fruitful. It is a pity that some Members, on the same subject, voted in one way by clear ballot and another by secret ballot, and that was not necessary. I have not even shared accusations that, when they were there, they crossed a measure that should always be respected: accusations of betrayal of the Constitution, of risks to democracy. This was a very delicate passage in the debate. In a great European democracy of the 21st century such as Italy, we can divide ourselves on everything, distinguishing ourselves on the merits of problems or political positions. What we cannot and should never do, Mr President, is separate ourselves by evoking North Korea, the Stalinist regime, the attacks on constitutional integrity. Yet that has been said! [[Applause from the PD Group]] When it comes to the Constitution, controlling language is very important. These are times when democracies in all the advanced countries of the West show fragility of various kinds. But these dangers do not depend on the transformation of the Senate into a non-political Chamber, which will not give confidence to the Government, which will have very limited legislative powers. Today, the dangers for democracies, even for ours, come from rulesless globalisation and uncontrolled markets, drug traffickers, weapons and human beings, coming from tax havens. Democracies are in difficulty because of inequalities, corruption, too many unindependent media and the impotence of the UN that cannot guarantee the world order, as in these hours shows the terrible and vile persecution of Christians in Iraq. [[Applause from the PD ePI groups and the Senators Formigoni and Scilipoti]] It is on these points that we must reflect, because when a democracy shows itself incapable of increasing the economy, giving jobs to young people, making them study, guaranteeing families, enforcing the law then it becomes possible that many end up aspiring to different regimes, anti-democratic oligarchical solutions and authoritarian practices. Many have the idea that democracy is not suitable for governing the complexity of the contemporary world. It is from these thoughts that the dangers come to the democratic holding, not from this reform of the Senate or from a second-degree election that is present in many European democracies, or from the hundred senators indicated between regional councillors and mayors (all directly elected by the people) or from the immunity envisaged in the very reduced form of 1993. I would like to make two more comments. First of all, the Senators of the Democratic Party Group have always sought confrontation and, if possible, convergence with all the Groups of the majority and the opposition. The report's difficulties concerned only those who were self-excluded from the debate and from the debate. There have been stages of our rough and turbulent work. I must stress that the Senators of the Democratic Party Group have maintained an always correct parliamentary behaviour, even in the face of excesses (not just verbals) which have led to serious interruptions in the work of the House. It seemed to me, I say frankly, that the signs of intolerance arose from a political livor towards the Government and the majority, rather than from a dissent on points of reform. Reforms will be approved by a wider consensus of the majority government. So it must be because the rules of the game do not change without questioning everyone, without asking everyone to participate. The center-left in 2001 and the center-right in 2005 made themselves and wrong. The Democratic Party is committed not to repeat the error and, in this spirit, also intends to operate by submitting the reforms to a confirmed referendum. The second consideration concerns the Government. I heard protests because the reform comes from a government bill, almost as if it was the first time a government has proposed constitutional changes. From 1979 until now, parliamentary acts testify to 25 changes to the Constitution that governments of various compositions and political majority have submitted to Parliament. These data illustrate themselves. I'll finish. The process of reform is still long and Parliament will continue to work in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution, which has never been called into question, I stress, never questioned. The senators who will approve the reform today will do so in the belief that they have done an honest job. But we need four readings, four parliamentary approvals of the same text. If the House of Deputies considers it necessary to make changes, it will do so, but at the end of the process, the reform will be approved and this legislature will have fulfilled the task of putting an end to equal bicameralism; to have redesigned the competences of State and Regions, to have abolished the Provinces and CNEL. And that's not a small thing. (Loud, prolonged [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u42	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u43	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the debate on this desired reform without a pre-constituted position and with an interest in content and method. I understood the commitment of the rapporteurs and senators. But I was disappointed to see that impeccable assessments and ideas, as to political and civil logic and relevance, have not been heard. Human, professional and intellectual resources to do better were all in here and in the country. But I have not seen the courage to fly high, explaining to the citizens and the government what it takes to retrain the components and functions of the Chambers in the framework of a new and well coordinated system. You know the truth better than I do. This is not the constitutional reform that the country needs. And my vote on today's text is dictated by this discomfort and three considerations. The first concerns the general context in which the work took place: poor listening and language unfit for such an important moment. There has been talk of "humours" and "professors," with a feeling of "sufficiency towards academics and political experts." The language comes from thought and the illustrious scholars of political history present in this House teach me that anti-intellectualism is an indicator of cultural and civil crisis for a liberal democratic system. The second consideration is on the method used, too conditioned by government strategies and party disciplines with which they dictated content, stakes and timing, decided outside of this House. It is a wrong method because one cannot conduct an experiment that presupposes free democratic sharing without the willingness to really and analytically examine the results that this experiment is destined to produce. If the method of experimenting is wrong, the results will be unusable. If that's okay. The third point concerns the project. The speeches from several quarters and my talks with colleagues from all over the Chamber make me conclude that this is a technically messy and hasty project, which is currently decontextualized compared to other reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Buemi, Bencini, Mussini and De Pin.]] It is a project that is not now able to indicate the outcome, the set-up, the balance, the vision of the new constitutional structure that we are building. They don't convince me of the reasons for a non-elective Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Buemi, Mussini, Bencini),]] the choices on the functions assigned to this House, the failure to reduce the number of MPs in the other House [[Applause from Senators Buemi, Mussini, Bencini and De Pin]] , uncertainty about the guarantees of balance of powers and the effectiveness of the pluralism of future parliamentary representation. I am not convinced how the question of the election of the President of the Republic has been dealt with. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Buemi, Mussini and Bencini]] and the lack of a method of acquiring to the new Senate "personalities accustomed to drawing the frontiers of the world," which would be very useful in these economic circumstances. That is why, and I shall conclude, my vote will be abstaining (which I know is a vote against in this House), which wants to be, in its small, a signal to the citizens and colleagues of the other branch of Parliament, so that their work can be more serene and in complete independence positive and attentive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC Groups, and the Senators Chiti, Micheloni and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u46	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I and some of my colleagues from the Democratic Party, who have found themselves in an alternative proposal over the last few months based on the role of citizens in continuing to choose with the vote the senators in order to overcome the bicameralism of equality, have given rise to a coherent battle, which will continue, but loyal and open-face, while remaining in the Chamber, as is our duty, we will not participate in the vote. This is an assumption of responsibility, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is not confused with the delegitimation of Parliament - which is not and will never be my own and our own position - and which has a double meaning: on the one hand, of critical evaluation, never hidden, of aspects of the reform project; on the other hand, of strong but constructive solicitation for changes and possible deepenings in the parliamentary groups, in the parties, with the citizens during the ongoing process of this reform. We do not think that we are faced with the overthrow of our democracy, with an authoritarian involution: that is not the point. It is said that the reform will help to make the functioning of our institutions more effective, to rebuild a strong relationship of trust with citizens: participation and governance. I doubt this will be the outcome. In my opinion, we will complicate the life of the institutions, their mutual relations, and we will disappoint the citizens' drive to take responsibility, not to continue granting delegations. It is not the old man who advances or returns (a stale commonplace that has also been heard in this House by those who have more slogans than ideas): it is the real question that arises from the same computer revolution; if representative democracy does not grasp it, does not reconcile it with its rules, it is representative democracy that will risk impoverishment and in the long run fail. Do you not agree with this approach? It is legitimate; however, we must have intellectual honesty - as when I say that there is no authoritarian involution in this reform - to recognize that this approach of ours is nevertheless consistent with the overcoming of equal bicameralism. This is the case in Spain, where we are discussing the fact that Parliament does not work but there is no equal bicameralism. Our proposal is not even to adopt the Spanish system. We proposed that the senators elect themselves in conjunction with the regional elections, so there was no Senate that elected and dissolved, all together, as now. Moreover, this was also a fleeting proposal of the New Right Center, it was the proposal of the North League and SEL, I did not understand if also of the 5 Star Movement. I want to say that it could have been a largely shared reform, more shared than what we are now going to vote on. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut, Misto-SEL, Misto-MovX and Senator Azzolini]] The majority of the Senate actually choose the Austrian model, not the German or French one; a friendly country Austria, only having eight million inhabitants, nine regions and some less responsibility than ours in Europe. And the Senate in that country is not the subject of discussion because it works little, but because it serves nothing, for the functions it has and for how it forms. He has the political groups, Senator Finocchiaro: it is easy to see what the future Senate will be by observing Austria, and his Senate which has the political groups, as I fear it will be for us, because even the amendment - which I voted for - by Senator Maran, which obliged the regional delegations to vote for a unitary vote was rejected. Not even this has been done to push in one direction. And I think it is a great contradiction for those who support this approach. Our discussion, except for a few occasions, did not take place properly - this is a strong regret - with respect to the task of updating the Constitution: the exasperated oppositions, an obstruction without a project, the answer also entrusted to forced interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, Mr President, for my esteem for you, to defuse the management of these days with an exceptional measure to overcome an emergency. Do not, please, make a precedent to which tomorrow, in five or ten years' time, we can refer. I'm asking because of my esteem for you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LN-Aut Groups]] However, all this has reduced the already not wide margins of the comparison and has damaged those who wanted to measure themselves on proposals. In short, political reason prevailed over the constitutional reason in all. I welcome the solution that has been given to instruments of direct democracy (the repealing referendum, the proposed referendum inserted as a principle in the Constitution, the laws of popular initiative), on which progress has been made. Similarly, I welcome the commitment to the confirmation referendum, which was also made by the Government and which was one of our indications from the outset. However, I register the failure to resolve crucial issues such as immunity and the number of Members, who remain unchanged, conditions the election of the President of the Republic and continues to cause imbalances in the system of guarantees. Moreover, I am not really convinced - I pray the Government to think about it - about the presence of elected members of the foreign college not in the Senate, which will not give confidence, but in the House of Deputies, which will give it. I believe that there is a basis here for representatives of the foreign college. I would like to make one last point more of a political nature. I hope to be clear, even if it's a very special morning. I welcome the participation of Forza Italia in the design of the reforms, I do not want there to be a misunderstanding about this: I really consider it a contribution to their success. However, this relationship cannot claim to be exclusive; it cannot be so for us, because we must seek a confrontation without prejudice with all the political forces that make themselves available. For no one there can be a right of veto. For us, as we have seen and as we will continue to see on constitutional reform and as we will see in the autumn dealing with the issues of electoral law reform, the so-called Nazarene Pact, which is useful in the relations between two parties around major crucial issues of the country, cannot define neither culturally nor politically insuperable columns of Hercules. It is not, in short, the basis that can be laid to change Italy in the third millennium (I say this to Senator Bruno who wanted to recall him when I had made that proposal); for us it cannot be so. It does not replace the Resistance based on the Constitution, either for you or for us. I use this example to give a sense of proportion. I do not think, out of metaphor, that anyone, even his friend Senator Verdini, can be left with a role of guarantor or judge on the borders or on the modalities that will assume the constitutional reforms and electoral law. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, LN-Aut, Misto-SEL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u48	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u49	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be brief, in line with the trouble that has characterized this convulsive confrontation on the reform of the Constitution. I tell you the truth: I'm disappointed. I've had two great disappointments. The first - let me say this - is you, Mr President. You have shown me that so much honored civil society is often worse than politics. Your administration of this House in these weeks, in my humble opinion, has been, to say the least, regrettable. And to think that he had started well: when he decided to adopt the secret vote for a series of amendments, I publicly praised his courage. After a day as a lion, however, strangled from here and there, she has transformed herself into a shadow of herself and a new don Abbondio. He surrendered to the government's overflow and to what has been renamed, with a good dose of imagination, the institutional majority. He has invented everything, just everything, to satisfy the wishes of the majority and to mortify the rights of minorities. He may have done the happiness of his dandy lawsuits, but he turned the former Constituents into their graves; he certainly won't make a good look on the history books and forced a person like me, sober in character and conviction, to turn to the European Court of Human Rights to prevent his precedent from causing serious damage in the future. The second disappointment was the President of the Council. He had a great opportunity: to have 90% of this House approve the constitutional reform, which in the vast majority shares the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism. A widely shared Charter could be created, an indispensable condition, especially at a time when the country needs a collective effort to get out of the quicksand of the crisis. Moreover, as the Premier well knows, since he reminds him every day of the international press, the priorities for our country are many others, certainly not the reform of the Senate, which perhaps only serves as a diversion to hide the inability of this Government to launch true reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But at such a delicate time the Premier, instead of being inclusive, was divisive. He put himself, without explaining it, on the idea of a non-elective Senate, and on this original sin gave rise to a reform full of contradictions and inconsistencies: a Senate appointed by regional councillors is not a sign of modernity, but a monument to the caste, I say that I have always abhorred such a term. His was a serious political error, a calculation that over time will prove to be wrong, but above all he sinned of arrogance, and in politics arrogance in the long run loses you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u50	With the sobriety that distinguishes her, I invite her to conclude, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u51	[[Comments of the Divine Senators and Council]] MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). In addition, he has taken on a great responsibility. The Premier knows very well that the majority of this House does not agree with this reform. Every time we reached the secret vote, the government ended up in a minority, so much so that it was terrified. But this contradiction, between the direction that this House expressed in the clear vote and the secret one, casts a left shadow over these weeks. If more than sixty years ago there was the Constituent of Courage, today we have given life to the Constituent of Fear and the motivation and blackmail that have conditioned this House are not - as the Premier says - the desire to defend an armchair, but to conquer an armchair for the future: a small, shallow, caste calculation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A constitution could not be born under worse auspices. That is why I renew one last appeal to the Premier: at this point, in view of the prospect of creating a useless and probably harmful organism, it would be better to abolish the Senate altogether. We would avoid not defending - as the Premier says - the seats of today, but also inventing useless seats for the future. It is an appeal that I address to him for the sake of truth, without yielding to the cowardice of the imbecile or to the hypocrisy of the courtier. For these reasons, and in order not to legitimise the damage caused in recent weeks, I will not vote for the reform today, but I will leave the Chamber hoping that in the future, given that the path of reform is still long, wisdom will be replaced by ignorance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u53	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u54	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I would like to reassure the Premier, who I hope will listen to us: in the Senate I have not seen owls or jackals, nor senators who waste time not to lose the chair. Those who criticized the reform text did not intend to curb the Government, nor to reduce the overcoming of bicameralism in the name of a misconceived sacredness of the 1948 Charter. So, why dissent? Because in a liberal democracy it is right that the government governs without snares and snares but it is essential that the common goods, the fundamental freedoms, the guarantee institutions do not end up in the full availability of the Premier in turn. That's why with Senator Chiti we proposed a House for the Government and a Senate for constitutional guarantees. "You can't do" - we have been told - "you need a Senate of the autonomous." To cut off the debate, then, the final weapon: It is in the history of the Democratic Party and the parties from which the Democratic Party was born. And the guarantees, I wonder, and the intransigent defense of freedoms, weren't they written in that story, in our history? The text of the reform provides for 100 senators and 630 Members. We proposed 350. If Members are elected with Italicum, the leader of the strongest minority will be able to appoint the President of the Republic on the same evening. Such power does not have the Chancellor in Berlin, nor does the Premier in London. Let us not talk about European reform. And why not let the citizens directly elect the senators? It is explained to me that we would like to overcome our confused self-government and move towards the German model: perhaps that is the case. The Senate that is formed will not give voice, as in Germany, to the governments of the Länder in a federal regime: we will have only a Senate of advisers chosen by other advisors, on indication of the local parties that have unfortunately shown themselves the most permeable from the business committees and the middle-class bourgeoisie, that of public spending. I hope that the reform will be modified and I look forward to the debate on Italicum here in the Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u57	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, in thanking the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli, for their commitment and for the commitment of the Minister for Institutional Reforms and of the Undersecretaries, Mr Scalfarotto and Mr Pizzetti, I confirm my disagreement with the establishment of this reform of the Constitution, and I also take responsibility for not using the evocative countries such as Korea or historical periods such as those of Stalin, but, in my opinion, cum fundamentum in re, expressions such as "authoritarian derivatives," which does not mean, as we have been rushed to say, that the Presidents of the Council, today or yesterday, of the despots, but that we are giving ourselves more seriously rules that reduce our spaces of democracy and freedom. In fact, in the open debate allowed, not only have there not been doubts about the fundamental balances linked to issues such as the election of the President of the Republic and the members of the Constitutional Court and the CSM, but they have become even more acute, showing that the logic that guides us at the moment is not the constituent spirit but that of the ostrich, that hides the head under the sand knowing that it does not have the courage to face the unresolved nodes. The removal of the problem posed by President Casini and President Gasparri with their amendments on the election of the President of the Republic, who preferred not to face it with laughable pretexts, is a testimony. As a testimony of inextricable contradiction was the discussion on the so-called electiveity of the Senate: having not had the courage to dissolve the Gordian node of competences and functions, we will have senators representing territorial institutions, and therefore speak on behalf of Molise or Lombardy, called to make constitutional revision without the support of universal suffrage. And again: the disconcerting knot with which, in contrast to the aims of the first part of the Constitution, we retain the good fruit of Italian regionalism to give everything to the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In fact, if such reforms pass, the strategic infrastructures, the large transport networks will return to the exclusive competence of the government of Rome. If this had already been the case, the Lombardy Region could not have assumed that decisive role, which could and could have played, as promoter, catalyst of resources and facilitator of the composition of the interests of the territories touched by a new great artery. So Brebeni would still be in the dream book. In short, the Senate of the Autonomies is the opposite of what is meant to be believed, that is to say a belt of transmission of the decisions of the Central Government to the territory and the Regions in particular, and not a garrison of the autonomy and subsidiarity. Unfortunately this could not be discussed equally, but the debate has just begun and it will be my concern and my political community to use every day to promote in the country and towards the public an adequate conscience of what is happening, so that the substance of our constitutional dictation is safeguarded. Formalism, ladies and gentlemen, is the natural antidote to paternalism...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u58	Conclude, Senator Mauro Mario.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u59	MAURO Mario (PI). President, we have overcome the bicameralism of equality, not that of dissidentity. Mr Chiti spoke indisturbed eight minutes. I repeat, formalism is the natural antidote to paternalism and today, that we risk promoting new shorts instead of starting new stories, discussing the form of our civil coexistence becomes an imperative to prevent from the perfect bicameralism from moving to confused bicameralism. In short, Parliament has been called in these months to mediate between the principles of democracy and the demands of decision-making, and experience has taught me that defending the former does not hinder the latter but makes it more true. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u62	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, with great regret and yet with the love of those who have participated with their own, albeit modest, individual forces at a significant moment in the life of this Senate, I must announce that I will not participate in the vote. Personally, I have never been refractory to overcoming the bicameralism of equality, nor am I opposed to the reduction in the number of Members. However, these objectives have been achieved in the worst possible way. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the rights of dissenters were, if not legally conculcated, certainly politically compressed. Once in the House, there has been an announcement of a confrontation on the substance between the different opinions, but this confrontation has proved to be quite modest, having been confirmed not only the Senate of indirect election, but also the parliamentary immunity that unifies in the same legal guarantee positions, that of deputy and senator, that unitary are no longer. We have had a debate which has only at times been worthy of constitutional reform. More often we had the impression of a stone party, which was the electoral law. In this context, the initial obstruction of certain groups was opposed to the deafness of the majority who had voted in favour of the text in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The mediation of my colleagues Chiti, Tocci and Corsini did not find the space that they hoped for and that I wanted myself. It is no longer time for high-sounding quotations from Constituents and political philosophers. Nor by temperament, by temperament, am I sensitive to nostalgia or to looking behind me. Politics is struggle, choice of priorities, but it is also mediation, confrontation - as the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro said - and it is also transaction. Unfortunately, I have not been able to participate in this transaction in any way, because none of the amendments I have signed together with other colleagues have been considered and, least of all, approved. Let us look ahead, ladies and gentlemen, and let us hope that the House can do a little better than us and correct some mistakes. In my personal capacity, I would like to thank President Grasso, who I believe has made difficult choices, but has taken on the responsibilities that he was responsible for. I have not always shared, Mr President, your choices and I invite you to reflect on Senator Chiti's suggestion. These tiring days and evenings have taught me a lot and I think they have taught you and all of us something too. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u63	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u66	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for your kindness. I would like to inform my fellow Members that, as soon as the sitting of this House is over, the Foreign Commission will meet on the subject, which is on the agenda of all international networks at this time, of the American humanitarian intervention in Iraq because of the dramatic situation in which thousands of Christians live. So, if colleagues are interested, then the Foreign Commission will meet. [[Applause from the PI, PD and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u69	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I am going to vote in favour of the reform. My Group, through Senator Scavone, has stated that it will not vote on it, arguing that we are a democratic group that has made the dissidents speak, while the many senators who will vote in favour will do so responsibly. Today is an important day for those who wear this carnation (Senator Barani shows a red carnation) : 32 years ago Bettino Craxi, at the Conference in Rimini, had already laid the foundations to make the country aware that the Constitution had to be modernised, comparing it to a horse-drawn carriage in the Boeing 777; perhaps we had to do more. If there had been Bettino Craxi, surely we would have done the macro-regions too, we would have tried to solve structurally problems that would have made the country progress also economically. I remember the last time that GDP was 5% was with the Craxi government. Paraphrasing the Tour de France, we believe that today, under the Arc of Triumph at the Champs-Élysées, it is transiting with the yellow jersey Bettino Craxi and those who vote in this House this reform - I address above all to the Democratic Party - is 32 years late. I still allow myself to disagree with Senator Minzolini, who said that in secret vows we always went under: we won three by two, because out of five secret vows three times we were in the majority. I should like to end, Mr President, by joining in with my colleagues' thanks and thanking you. I, who have been close to you these weeks, have seen the difficulties of an referee in seeing players out of the game and goals made with the hand. He was a referee who I believe has led with difficulty, but with a great sense of responsibility the game and managed to bring it to the ninetieth minute and if we are here today we owe it also to his work and his sacrifice, which I publicly recognize. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u72	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I disagree with my Group, which has said that it wants to abstain. Instead, I think I should vote against the vote. You see, I cannot represent anyone but myself in this House and I do not intend to represent categories, even though I come from the professional categories, but I intend to represent a mere citizen, who happened to be added to this House and who, having participated in political activity, was deeply disappointed by it. Since there is a great deal of talk about the distance between politics and citizens, I would like to make my modest contribution in repeating a thought that I had to read when I was young; when politics loses all ideals, it becomes a sordid profession. Well, I've seen few politicians and many miserables in here. I do not agree with this reform because as a good liberal, not those who water down every day by inventing a liberalism that is not there, I have in mind the admonition of Lord Acton: The power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. And we, within this reform, have no decent counterweight to the hegemony of a Prime Minister who, with 37 or 40% of the votes compared to 55 to 60%, will act undisturbed and will have a power that was not granted even during fascism, neither to Facta nor Mussolini. I do not agree because we have violated the fundamental principle of democracy, that of popular sovereignty: we have become esoteric and esoteric will be those who will be appointed to be able to decide the fate of the country, because when there is no source of popular legitimacy, call them cliques or places where some people consider themselves more qualified are others who decide in the name and on behalf of the citizens. Popper was asked what his principle of democracy was and how he wanted to define it. He said that democracy is not to determine who is in charge, but to establish who controls because only the controller, in a liberal system, can submit to the more continuous and incessant criticism of those who manage power. We are not in this Constitution and therefore lack the basis. We are faced with a crawling historical compromise. And I believe that from this historic compromise, as then happened for Berlinguer, the leader of my party is penalized, that I do not know what measures he will take, to which I will oppose, not because he wants to return here or protect my scranno, but because I only made a choice, with great intellectual humility: I prefer to live out of this standing Chamber than to sit in here dragging myself into servitude. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u75	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, I was hoping to change the negative judgment and instead I am forced to aggravate it, not only because of the content, but also because of the method. I do not participate in the vote, but I remain in my place, out of respect for the House and my party. The government has prevented the text from making those improvements that would have been widely shared. The House has shown that it does not appreciate it. Many colleagues have only made dissent with the secret vote; it is a pity that they have not expressed it in the light of the sun. On the other hand, those who criticized in a transparent and loyal manner have been treated with personal insults. When it comes to the Constitution, it is the quality of the debate that largely decides the outcome. It had never happened, in republican history, that the Head of Government imposed a sort of vote of confidence on the change of the Charter. He promised to cut the costs of politics, but he decided not to reduce the number of Members and this failure created an imbalance. The House becomes six times larger than the Senate and allows those who win the election to use the majority prize to take over the Quirinale. Let us be honest: if Berlusconi had modified the Constitution by weakening the independence of the Presidency of the Republic, we would have filled the streets. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Mussini.]] Over the past twenty years, not only on the right, but also on the left, the executive power has been strengthened to the detriment of the legislative. Yet the second Republic had not finished the work; it took a new man to implement the program of the old political class. The Italian crisis is not institutional, it is political and depends on the lack of clear and distinct projects. The right did not realize the liberalism that he had promised and the left did not counter inequalities as it was up to her to do. The two poles have asked for more powers of government, without knowing what to do with it. All this has produced many laws, but no real reform. The void is filled with media illusions. The cancellation of the elective Senate is, yes, a spell to make citizens believe that decisions will now be more expedited and will produce millions of jobs, but unfortunately the reality is quite different. It was necessary to spend the formidable electoral victory in order to achieve the turning point in Europe. We had long awaited the Italian leadership semester; it could give a boost to the diplomatic initiative, while the fires of war were lit in the East and in the Mediterranean. On the other hand, the appointment of the European Foreign Minister has been blocked. If the Premier had nominated Enrico Letta, before others named him, he would have given evidence of a man of state who goes beyond personal enmities. The risk of the economic crisis being screwed back. Europe had been asked for room for flexibility, but negative responses came. The Italian Government has resigned, passing to deal only with the Senate, and today reaches its goal. Our order will come out more confused. The voters will not choose the elected and weaken the counterweights that make European democracies strong. However, there is one positive side: the spell no longer serves; from now on we return to reality; the twenty-year alibi of institutional reforms has ended. Governments will have to prove that they have the ideas and the ability to govern. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u78	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like a little more time, adding to that for the commentary as rapporteur - I have saved so much - that for a note in disagreement with the position taken by my Group, which will abandon the House at the time of the vote. Unfortunately, I understand and share their position because we have seen a series of frankly unacceptable forcings, especially on the method, as well as on the merit. Certainly there were external pressures, government pressures. There is evidence, by tabulas, that when the House votes with the obvious system the numbers are in one sense and, if we proceed with the secret vote, the numbers are not always, as Mr Barani says, on important issues have gone one way. The moment of replacement, perhaps not directly attributable to the Government, has also hurt me, but certainly to the majority of my colleagues Mauro Mario and Mineo, who are all my solidarity, because these are things that should never be done in a democratic system. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] With regard to external pressure, I would point out that when I tabled the amendment to Rule 40 yesterday it called me the whole world, except for the Pope and Putin. Perhaps even Merkel did not call, but it is really amazing how someone thinks that they are using a moment of occupation of the House by an opposition movement to be able to determine those pressures that make one amendment take one road rather than another. Mine did not want to be a provocation or trap amendment: for me it was the "king naked" amendment. The truth must finally come out, because I have not yet understood if the reform someone votes on it because if we do not vote on it by 8 August we are going to vote on it or, vice versa, we are not voting on it because, if approved, we are going to vote on it. Unfortunately, it is a reform linked to the dissolution of the Chambers and this does not seem to me the best of the constituent spirit. Mr President, I would also like to express my solidarity with you, given that, if I have been pressured by the opposition, I do not know and dare to think what you have received. I'm sure he'll have to change the jackets, because they won't have pockets anymore, they'll have them ripped from all sides! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The kangaroo was born with President Mancino, but I weaned it and made it grow, but, frankly, jump over 1,400 amendments in one shot had never done it. Excuse the expression, but it was really a kangaroo with the jet in the butt! Let's do it, but, as I've had a chance to tell you, cum grano salis. The secret vote is not an institution to guarantee only minorities. It is precisely on this occasion that we have seen that it is an institution in favour of majorities, not so much of those political ones, but of those parliamentary ones that, I believe, must be the ones that prevail when we examine a constitutional reform. On the substance, I did not hide either at the reporting stage or at the replying stage that I did not like the measure and, unfortunately, I still do not like it. I say this quietly, although I have to say that the work done in the Commission has been enormous. What I am even more sorry is that the controversy over the errors that still remain within the measure have hidden the good part that has been inserted instead. It's a huge pity for me. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this by claiming some of the points that are particularly qualifying for me. There's so many more. I personally claim them even if I have to share this paternity with so many colleagues from various Groups: having introduced the principle of referenda of direction and purpose into our Constitution without excluding any argument is a huge instrument of democracy, provided that someone does not think to have the referendum voted by regional councillors and mayors. I hope that we may not, in the constitutional law, want to limit it in this way. The same applies to the inclusion of standard costs in the Constitution: someone did not even notice it, but, to give an example, in these days, three or four days ago has been done the repartition of the National Health Fund using the needs and the standard costs; I am referring to the three Regions closest to me, but this determines that more than 1.1 billion will go to Lombardy, Veneto and Piemonte, that do not take them away from someone who is less well, but to someone who up to now has used too much and badly the resources that he had available, and I believe that this is a concrete fact. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Could we do more? Yes, and it is proof - and here I am sorry and solidarity with my colleague Finocchiaro - because not all of them, but so many amendments that were signed by Calderoli-Finocchiaro, Finocchiaro-Calderoli have remained in the end as amendments Calderoli, therefore with the contrary opinion of the Government, because some pressure has not only made them to the parliamentarians, but also to the rapporteurs. I am sorry for that, because we could have had a reform that was really voted on by 80% of this House today. There are still imbalances that need to be settled. It remains, in my opinion, the unconstitutionality of the transitional rule, because Article 3 and Article 51 are part of Part I of the Constitution, so I believe that the President of the Republic will also give some thought to the signature that he will have to put on the text, and other things will also have to be sorted out. Today, therefore, I shall vote for an abstention, which must be understood in the sense of an opening of credit, because I still believe that something can be done. The text will have to be modified by the House and will return to the Senate. If the decision that the House will take is a deterioration, a return to the original text, my vote will become absolutely, strongly against. If, on the other hand, the remaining issues are addressed and resolved, my vote is ready to become favourable. We will have (I would have said four, now we know very well that the readings will be five) the times of reflection, which fortunately bicameralism leaves with respect to such an important text: there will be, therefore, a moment to reflect and possibly correct. I must say that even the time that our constituent Fathers have introduced helps, because probably also the numbers and composition of the current majorities, that of Government and that extended to reforms, after it has been seriously and truly addressed the electoral theme, are clearly destined to change. The presence of forces in the same majority which have diametrically opposed requirements to the barriers and thresholds makes it incompatible that this majority that will vote on the reform remains so in the next steps, perhaps already from the third step could be changed. So, let's think again, let's improve the text, I'm ready both for yes and for war. I am willing to continue to work, and I take this opportunity to thank the Offices, because managing 8,000 amendments means working day and night. [[Live, general applause]] I apologize for the attacks they have been subjected to through the media because they are absolutely undeserved and you can't caress when you just say yes and instead get angry when no comes, because unfortunately these are the rules of the game and if they don't keep them impartial we are all ruined. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members for the certificates of closeness they have given me these days. [[Applause.]] I really wish everyone a moment of rest and after this beautiful (not in the sense of the result) battle that we have waged, because of this it was, go quietly, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you frankly. [[Laughter.]] I said it in my sense of serenity, instead during this period do not think about the reforms, otherwise that serenity would assume the Renzian meaning of the term, and if anyone has doubts ask poor Henry Letta, that when I meet him in the palaces it really seems to me the ghost of the palace that really well did not bring him. Thank you to my colleague and to all of you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u81	FINDING, rapporteur. I will not be as sparkling as President Calderoli; lower flight. Indeed, parliamentary work - as we all know - is a collective work. So I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the Commission and those who have worked in this House for so many days with so much patience and attention. I naturally thank Minister Boschi for the work he has carried out with us daily, undersecretary Pizzetti and their offices. Let me say, however, that the most heartfelt thanks - I really say this - go to the Commission's offices, to Dr Goracci, in the first place. [[Applause),]] to the offices of the Chamber, to Dr. Borsi and to the Department of Studies. [[Live, general applause.]] We never remember this, but this work could be a good job because we had excellent documentation materials that allowed the rapporteurs to deepen every issue whenever a doubt or curiosity was raised and - I believe - even colleagues to be able to work in an informed manner. I thank Roberto Calderoli for everything he has put me through these four months. [[Laughter]] , but also because of the closeness, the continuous suggestions and the common work that really did not stop. [[Extended applause from the PD FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut, GAL, PI, SCPI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u84	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Mr President, it is time for my sincere and heartfelt thanks not to open a debate on the subject or even to prepare some controversy with my almost friend Senator Calderoli with whom we think and continue to think differently about many aspects, but to confront ourselves with great respect and - I believe - mutual loyalty. We will continue to do so in the course of the process. As I said, this is the moment of conscious thanks that it is only a first step and that the work that awaits us is still long and complex. But it is a fundamental step which has involved four months of hard work on the part, first of all, of the Members of the 1st Commission who, of course, thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs in particular because we have worked every day learning to get to know each other better and to collaborate in a stimulating way from a technical point of view, as well as a political point of view. We thank all the senators, all of them, for these days of intense work that allowed us to conclude this first examination before the suspension for summer holidays, with a great willingness on the part of all the senators to offer their contribution in the interests of the citizens. Of course a thank you goes to the undersecretary Pizzetti, in particular, and to the undersecretary Scalfarotto who shared with me [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups]] This daily commitment, to all the consultants and collaborators of the Ministry for the quality of their work and, last but not least, to the whole structure of the Senate, beginning with the officials of the 1st Commission. Really, to the entire structure of the Senate that has accompanied and helped us with competence and great self-denial in the work done these days. Finally, a thank you for the balance that you have always tried to maintain in your work, even in the most delicate passages, goes to President Grasso [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups]] I believe that he has always tried to maintain impartiality and his role as a guarantee in the work of this House. Thank you all. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u85	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the draft Constitutional Act No. 1429, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group leave the Chamber. Senator Centinario shows his badge). The Senate approves in first resolution. [[See Annex B. Live, general applause.]] The draft Constitutional Law no. 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1414, 1415, 1416, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I wish all the senators and senators a peaceful period of rest together with their families to reclaim their energy for the resumption of their work in September.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u88	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, today marks the 58th anniversary of one of the most dramatic tragedies of European history in the 21st century. It was August 8, 1956 and in the coal mine of Marcinelle, Belgium, 262 miners died in a fire, of which 136 Italians emigrated under the Italian-Belgian protocol to supply coal in exchange for labour. Today Marcinelle is the metaphor of the sacrifice of hundreds of workers from their lands, in a historical season in which poverty and despair were decisive elements of the Italian social fabric. I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House to a moment of reflection that is not just a celebratory rhetoric, but becomes a shared memory. Let it be a reference for the current dramas and for the ability of our country to make right choices, because after almost 40 years, themes such as job security, respect for the next come from afar and social integration, are truly absolute and unavoidable values. We are obliged to preserve the memory of those victims so that they remain alive in future generations as an indelible example of courage and sacrifice and as an image of the best Italy. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u91	DE POLI (PI). Mr President, at the end of this day and of all the work done in recent months, I would like to thank all our collaborators in particular, and specifically the assistants who, together with all of us, have tried to ensure that this House had a decorum and could continue its work. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General and all his collaborators for their work and, last but not least, Mr President, I would like to thank you, who, beyond anything else, managed to ensure that this Senate could launch a great reform at a very difficult time and managed to lead this House, despite the great criticalities that have been there, in a valuable way. Thanks again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-303.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday, 3 September, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.23 a.m.
