ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first question will be asked 3-00681 (already 4-01552) on the protection of the archaeological site of Pompeii. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u4	Mr President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Montevecchi asks what initiatives this Administration has undertaken to protect and conserve some archaeological finds found during an excavation carried out for the construction of a commercial center in the Municipality of Torre Annunziata. In this regard, I would like to point out that, in May 2007, the Archaeological Superintendence of Naples and Pompei expressed a favourable opinion on the construction of a commercial park in Via Andolfi in Torre Annunziata, in an area on which the volumes of the abandoned plants were already insisting. The favourable opinion was expressed on the basis of the examination of the urban restructuring plan and the functional reuse of existing volumes and was subject to the condition that the work was followed by technical staff of the Administration, with particular reference to the work concerning the excavation of the underground garage, since the rest of the area was not subject to excavation. Subsequently the Regional Directorate for Cultural and Landscape Heritage of Campania, in taking note of the favourable opinion of the Archaeological Superintendence of Naples and Pompeii, also considered it necessary that, with regard to the archaeological aspect, the excavation work should be followed by specialized personnel of the Administration. Following the excavations, the various essays and the consequent findings, carried out between 2009 and 2011, several variants of the original project were presented. The latest version, presented on 26 May 2011, provided for a structural solution, which allows to safeguard the archaeological structures that have come to light, while ensuring the possibility of carrying out the archaeological excavation throughout the area concerned, also in that part below the garage floor, together with the restoration and enhancement of the archaeological structures that emerged. The new project received the favourable opinion of the Technical Scientific Committee for Archaeological Heritage (Central Advisory Body of the Ministry). The Committee agreed with the proposed solution which allowed the protection of archaeological structures and ensured that the building company was committed to securing the area. The Superintendence, on the basis of this opinion, approved the new project, prescribing what was necessary to ensure the safety and protection of the archaeological structures that emerged during the excavations, for which accessibility had to be guaranteed. This means, in essence, that the excavations are already accessible for the study and for the subsequent valorization of the findings. The continuing compliance with the requirements is constantly verified by the technical staff of the Superintendence, for this purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u7	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the reply received, since, as I have often heard in the Commission, I receive very detailed answers with regard to the regulatory framework which is considered to have been respected. At the moment I do not have the means to go into the substance of the answer given to me: I do, however, reserve the right to reread it calmly and possibly to proceed with further initiatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u8	Colleagues, since the Deputy Minister for Economic Development De Vincenti is slightly late, I am forced to suspend the sitting until 4.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.10 a.m. and resumed at 16.20 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u9	Mr President, I did not hope any more: this urgent questioning of 8 August 2013 has been included! I got used to it in the House, where I saw her put in the next week. I know it's not your fault, but I'm urging the Deputy Minister for the next time. This says a lot about how in Italy you can't fix things with speed. The subject is still topical and I am going to touch on the salient parts, also because in recent months, of course, the matter has been touched to some extent also by a measure, Act No. 1215, which has been withdrawn but from which the will of the Government has been understood. Article 13 of Legislative Decree of 3 March 2011, n. 28, in the matter of energy certification of buildings, has modified Article 6 of Legislative Decree of 19 August 2005, n. 192, in the matter of energy performance, issue and posting, previewing that in the case of offer of transfer for consideration of buildings or individual real estate units, from 1 January 2012 commercial announcements of sale include the energy performance index contained in the energy certification certificate. This provision has, of course, created considerable problems for the activity of real estate agents. Subsequently, the article 6, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 4 June 2013, n. 63, which contains urgent provisions for the transposition of Directive 2010/31/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010, on the energy performance in buildings for the definition of infringement procedures initiated by the European Commission (...), replaced Article 6 of the aforementioned legislative decree n. 192 of 2005, providing for paragraph 8 that "In the case of offer of sale or lease, the corresponding ads through all commercial means of communication report the energy performance indices of the envelope and overall building or housing unit and the corresponding energy class". In the event of a breach of this obligation, the person responsible for the announcement shall be punished with administrative penalty from 500 to 3,000 euros. There is therefore a need for clarity as to who should be understood to be responsible for the announcement. From this point of view, it should be pointed out that, in our view, the Government has arbitrarily exceeded its provisions when transposing Directive 2010/31/EU. In this respect, it is noted that the rule relating to the sale and lease announcements provided for in that Directive provides that Member States shall provide that, in the case of a sale or lease offer of: buildings having an energy performance certificate... the energy performance indicator appearing in the energy performance certificate of the building or the building unit, as the case may be, shall be included in all commercial communications announcements. The literal dictation contained in article 12, paragraph 4, in addition to not providing to the Member States (so also to Italy) prescriptions on the paternity or ownership of the announcement, i.e. on which is the subject to which the obligation must be concerned, it is also clear that the announcements of sale or lease must bear the energy performance index only if the properties subject to the announcement already have an energy performance certificate and that, therefore, if not, the energy performance certificate can be acquired by the owner or landlord even at a stage after the publication of the sale announcement. It is therefore necessary to begin to understand and re-establish the real responsibility of the announcement. In the anti-meridian session of 7 August 2013 of the Assembly of the Senate, that is, just when the urgent questioning was filed, last year, in the context of the conversion into law of decree-law 21 June 2013, n. 69, was accepted the agenda of the day G54.0.200 at the signature of the undersigned, which committed the Government to assess the opportunity to take initiatives aimed at restoring the right balance with regard to the regulatory dictation through a legislative intervention aimed at clarifying the scope of the obligation under consideration or the actual ownership or responsibility of the commercial announcement where the seller or landlord proceeds to the publication of the announcement through a mediator. In view of this, it is requested to know whether the Government intends to officially confirm the interpretation under which the sale or lease announcements must bear the energy performance index only and only if the properties subject to the announcement already have an energy performance certificate, according to the literal dictation of Directive 2010/31/EU; what steps it intends to take in order to restore the actual ownership and liability of the sale or lease announcement in order to avoid that the penalties are imposed on the real estate agent who, after having previously informed his client of the obligation and the penalties in question, has been authorized by the same to publish the sale or lease announcement without having entered the energy performance index there, thus in breach of the legal obligations for reasons not attributable to him. The text of the questioning, of course, should be added to the text set out in Act No 1215, whereas in the correct reading relating to the application of the energy performance certificate (EPA) and of these sanctions, the State for itself, with regard to the properties it wished to place for sale or for rent, was exempt from this obligation and was only liable to rent or sale. I stress this because we sometimes forget that it is the State that serves the citizens who created it through a democratic process and not the other way round. In any case, the state must be an example for the citizen and not the citizen an example for the state that makes the rules for its use and consumption. In the Annual Report of the real estate market that has been developed by ENEA together with the Italian Federation of Professional Real Estate Agents (FIAIP), which I quote because it is a federation that counts about 40,000 agencies connected throughout Italy and therefore has the pulse of what happens on the territory, it is said that it has manifested itself from the Italian citizens an obvious disinterest in the quality, from the point of view of energy efficiency and energy efficiency, of the real estate. I mean, the Italians, perhaps, pay attention to where it is located, where it is allocated and what value a property may have in the future, but not whether it is an energetic house or not. Therefore, it is clear that there has been, beyond the will to apply a sanction in this respect, an inattention on the part of the State in educating the citizen in the purchase of a property. At this point, perhaps using the network of real estate agents (to whatever type of federation they belong or are also individual), the State could push or promote an education of the citizen in choosing one property rather than another. On the other hand, the State could clarify and remedy this abuse, with respect to which it is even expected the solidarity of the real estate agent, making him responsible for the announcement, when in reality the beneficiary and responsible for the announcement is who the house wants to sell it or wants to locate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u10	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u11	Mr President, I have to apologize twice. Firstly, because I delayed the sitting - and I apologize to the President and the senators present - and secondly, because the answer we give to Senator Gibiino comes seven months late. GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). And with a different government! DE VINCENTI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development. Yeah, with a different government. The senator has already illustrated the questioning, so I do not summarize its contents. I represent that Article 6 of Decree-Law No 61 of 4 June 2013 amends Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 192, 19 August 2005, in the matter of energy performance certificate, issue and poster. In particular, paragraph 8 of the aforementioned article expressly states: In the case of a sale or lease offer, the corresponding advertisements by all means of commercial communication shall include the energy performance indices of the building envelope and the building unit and the corresponding energy class. The rule seems to be formulated in clear terms, which cannot be interpreted differently. It clearly provides that the energy performance indices and the corresponding energy class of the buildings covered by the sale or lease offer are to be reported in all the relevant advertisements, regardless of whether the buildings are already certified (now certified) at the time of publication of the announcement. Moreover, this article represents a coherent development of an obligation already present in our legal system, as introduced by Article 13 of Legislative Decree No. 28 of 2011, with reference to the real estate announcements in the case of offer of transfer for consideration of buildings or individual real estate units, operational to date from 1 January 2012, and now extended also to the case of rental offer. It is noted that the forecast under consideration is consistent with the purpose of Legislative Decree No. 192 of 2005, as reworded by Decree-Law No. 63 of 2013, which considers the transfer of information on the energy performance of a property, when buying or renting, as a functional element to the achievement of the primary objective of promoting the improvement of the energy performance of buildings. It is worth remembering, as well as widely set out in the "considers" to Directive No 31 of 2010, that buildings are responsible for 40% of the overall consumption of the Union. Therefore, the reduction of energy consumption and the use of energy from renewable sources in the construction sector are important and necessary measures both to reduce the Union's energy dependence and to reduce climate change emissions. A complete and correct information on the energy performance of the transferred building, in any capacity, since the publication of the offer for sale or lease, is one of the effective tools for achieving the purpose. It is therefore considered that paragraph 8 of Article 6 of Decree-Law No 63 of 2013, does not exceed the provisions contained in the European Directive, but, on the contrary, respects its general guidelines and the basic ratio. In other respects, it is still noted that if, for a verse, as evidenced by Senator Gibino and the other interpeellants, paragraph 4 of Article 12 of the European Directive provides for the obligation to indicate the energy performance index (IPE) in the announcement for the buildings that already have an energy performance certificate, otherwise, the same article, paragraph 1, assigns to the Member States the task of providing EPAs all buildings and units built, sold or rented and, in paragraph 2, stipulates that in the case of sale and rental of buildings, the energy performance certificate must be shown to the potential buyer or new tenant and subsequently delivered to the conclusion of the contract. This forecast was punctually transposed in our order by paragraph 2 of Article 6 of Decree-Law No. 63 of 2013, which expressly states: In the case of sale, transfer of property free of charge or of new lease of buildings or units, where the building or unit is not already equipped with it, the owner shall be required to produce the energy performance certificate (...). In all cases, the owner must make the energy performance certificate available to the potential buyer or the new tenant at the start of the respective negotiations and deliver it at the end of the negotiations.............................................................................................. It is therefore clear that if, from the beginning of the negotiation for the sale or for the rental of the property, the owner must make available the energy performance certificate, he will necessarily have to acquire it well before the conclusion of the contract. In essence, therefore, from a purely practical point of view, it seems that there is not a substantial difference for the owner, that is for the person responsible for the announcement, such as to justify the interpretation of the norm subject of inspection union in the terms proposed by Senator Gibiino, as it would produce a clear weakening of the effectiveness of the obligation. It is noted that also the provision referred to in paragraph 10 of Article 12 of Decree-Law No. 63 of 2013, which introduces an administrative penalty to the detriment of the owner of the advertisement in case of violation of the obligation to bring back energy parameters in the announcement of offer of sale or lease, responds to the need, widely reported above, to make the transfer of information on the energy performance of the property more effective. In the final analysis, energy certification must not be perceived as an unnecessary bureaucratic burden, but as an element that enhances the building or the building unit. In fact, the indication of the energy performance is intended to qualify the building from the point of view of consumption and therefore contributes to better define its actual value. It must be considered at least the same as all other parameters used to describe the qualities of the transferred property. In the light of this interpretation, the real estate agent's interest in providing, from the date of publication of the announcement of a sale or lease offer, the energy performance index of the property is also shown, in order to carry out his broker's activities as best possible. Moreover, paragraph 1 of Article 1759 of the Civil Code, laying down general principles on the responsibility of the Ombudsman, states that he must inform the parties of the circumstances known to him concerning the assessment and safety of the affair. In the performance of his performance, therefore, the Ombudsman is obliged to provide correct information about any circumstances he knows or knows according to the ordinary diligence. As noted earlier, the energy performance index provides information on the energy consumption of buildings, thus providing significant and influential information on the conclusion of an agreement to conclude a sale or lease agreement. Finally, in other respects, it is noted that, since it is an obligation expressly provided for by a law of the State, the real estate agent is obliged to comply with the rule, regardless of the possible lack of cooperation of the owner of the property subject to the announcement. The obligation to indicate the IPE and the energy class in commercial announcements is objective in nature and general scope. Also according to Decree-Law No. 63 of 2013, the announcements carry the energy performance indices of the building envelope and the building unit and the corresponding energy class, regardless of the ownership of the subject that materially provides for the publication. The owner cannot, therefore, legitimately authorize the agent to publish the sale announcement without the indication of the IPE and, consequently, the agent cannot legitimately be exempted from compliance with the rule. From this point of view, both for the evaluation of the agreement and for the express obligation to indicate the IPE in the offer announcements, according to the current legislation, there is no extreme to exempt the real estate agent from liability. As for the agenda G54.0.200, recalled by Senator Gibiino in his interview, and welcomed at the afternoon session of 7 August 2013 of the Assembly of the Senate, which committed the Government to assess the opportunity to take initiatives aimed at restoring the right balance with regard to the regulatory dictation through a legislative intervention aimed at clarifying the scope of the obligation under consideration or the actual ownership or responsibility of the commercial announcement where the seller or landlord carries out the publication of the announcement through a mediator, we confirm the commitment to evaluate this opportunity. Therefore, according to the current legislation, the obligation for the agent is - in our view - inescapable, but we reserve the right to consider this situation more carefully in the light of the agenda presented by Senator Gibiino and the questioning to which I am responding today and to evaluate, precisely, the opportunity to take initiatives also legislative (at this point) that can respond to the problems that Senator Gibiino has highlighted in the questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u14	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). I understood in the intervention of the Government, represented here by Deputy Minister De Vincenti, who is always attentive person, the intention to intervene or, in any case, to give willingness to resolve or find a solution to this issue. It is obvious that we will use the legislative route, perhaps amending, during the examination of some measures that may contain a correction, even partial, of some distortions that, especially in Italy, have a particular value, if only we consider that about 80% of Italians own a house, that half of them own two and the further half have three, and if we consider the Italian real estate park and everything that revolves around it in terms of energy efficiency, sale, lease and the work of the real estate agents that are within the chain. So, Mr Vice-Minister, I will bother you again during the examination of the next measures and then we will take this matter seriously in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-00611 on the future of the company Seves of Florence. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult crisis in Florence in the Seves, mentioned by Senator Di Giorgi in the question, is for the attention of the Ministry which, in the near future, will set up a discussion table to seek, together with the territorial institutions and the social partners, possible solutions to the serious consequences that the cessation of productive activities has already determined. The Seves is now controlled by a primary German private equity fund, which has declared that it wants to deal mainly with the issue of debt restructuring, while it seems, at the moment, little interested in the productive future of the Florentine site, that we know is a reality that represents a point of excellence appreciated in the world with its artistic, and not, quality glass blocks. The Italian banking system, which is a creditor of some EUR 250 million, has also clearly considered that the financial aspects should be given priority to the possible industrial developments of Seves, which also seemed to have occurred in the recent past. The industrial solution remains the key point of reference for the Ministry of Economic Development, which encourages every initiative that moves in that direction. The Ministry of Economic Development will compare with all interested parties and, as a priority, with the current owner fund of Seves, to know the real goals of medium to long term, as well as to raise awareness about the opportunity to maintain production in our country. We want the current Seves owner fund to present an industrial plan that gives production and employment prospects to Seves in our country. The conveniences to accept the Government's request are clear only that we have memory of the profound process of restructuring, started and concluded with the union consent, of the innovative investments made, as well as the recognized value of a product of excellence made in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u19	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply and I am therefore satisfied. I wanted to bring the problem here, Mr Vice-Minister, because I believe it is a somewhat symptomatic example of what is tragically happening in many other places in Italy. It is a national excellence that we are considering, because it is the only place where the brick was produced, a type of brick of quality; a quality that obviously does not concern the fund that has acquired the company. The latter, in fact, which has other plants around the world, acquired the site following a series of passages of a more financial character than of an industrial nature, that have led to the current situation. The company is still alive: it is still made up of workers who are very passionate about their work, who know they have a sort of art in their hands, a profession not so widespread in the world, and to be the only ones to do this type of production. This is what happened. It is the story of a national excellence that has been ruined, or that you still want to ruin. There are interesting prospects, but this is precisely the story of a broken glass, with a sort of closure on the part of the current property, which seems not interested in the more than one hundred families that currently suffer the effects of the Cassa Integrazione of these workers. It can be said officially, because it is also a news published in the Florentine press, that the current property seems to want to close the matter quickly without waiting for the proposals of other buyers who come forward and without waiting for the opinion of the court that must decide on the procedure of negotiation of the debt. It is an unjustified haste, which we frankly cannot understand. Together with the other Florentine colleagues who have followed this story and are signatories to the question, I am very pleased with the Government's response to this history of excellence, which represents a flagship for Made in Italy. I want to remember that the company has worked with creativity, inventing this product over the years with high-profile aesthetic and formal realizations. Many architects, designers and many subjects who are interested in making our architecture more beautiful, and therefore also sensitive to spending something more, but using these products that make the environment more beautiful, have shown themselves interested in them, starting with our colleague Renzo Piano, whom I quote with great honor, who used the brick glass for the realization of the "Maison Hermes" in Tokyo. I therefore thank the Government very much. I hope there's strong attention. The table will start. It takes some time to go through with it and see if there are even new buyers. I ask the Government, therefore, to examine the new offers and to compare them - this seems to me that the Deputy Minister has already said so - so that the production site is maintained, because losing the productive activities is always a great defeat.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u20	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u21	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-204.ana.u22	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.50 a.m.
