ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u6	Colleagues, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10.23 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u11	Let us resume our work again. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u12	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u13	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 10:24 a.m.). I would like to say that, during the general discussion, the Conference of Leaders will be convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1288, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u15	Mr President, thank you. On the other hand, we know that these are politically quite hot days, so it's normal for us to have this climate. We are going, although it is not the first time, to address a topic certainly very important also with respect to the way of being of our country in the international context. We know that it is the fourth time, since the beginning of the legislature, that we have been dealing with a topic related to how to have a more just justice, a better relationship towards Europe than the calls that have come to us authoritatively and to international analyses that do not make our country of excellence in this field. We also know that the Head of State has called us back several times. Different measures have already been taken, and I recall that the Senate has also recently voted on measures to promote a new and different relationship between citizens and criminal justice. Therefore, to define this measure only an empty prison is wrong, because instead it tries to include Italy in the novero of the most advanced civil countries, as well as in economic and social terms, also in the area of criminal justice and the execution of the sentence. I believe that some aspects of the draft law under discussion need to be highlighted. The revision of the rules on custody in evidence, the revision of the rules establishing the Garante per i concerati in fact, the revision of the rules on the intervention of the supervisory judge in the field of the execution of the sentence and the protection of prisoners are all measures that go in the direction of responding to the reliefs that have come to us from the European Union, and that large international organizations have put to our attention, and to the solicitations of the Head of State. Of course, it would have been more appropriate, following the European Union's remarks and the famous intervention of the Head of State, instead of putting in place a plurality of sectoral measures, which have tried to have a significant impact on particular aspects, to draw up an organic plan to put Parliament in a position to intervene on the overall reform of the Gozzini law. In doing so, account had to be taken of the advanced remarks and, above all, of the need to respond to the most advanced culture of criminal law and the mandate of our Constitution, so that the penalty really became an instrument for the reintegration of the condemned into the civil context. With fragmented measures, which have responded in a sector-specific way, we are moving on this path. Out of all hypocrisy, we will also have to address the theme of amnesty and indult, always with the logic of preserving civil coexistence, punishing and condemning through the prison instrument only where we really need to create a diaphragm between society and those who are dangerous from the social point of view and who make themselves protagonists of facts that harm civil coexistence. We will then have to find other instruments which will further promote the return of the sentenced person, for example by addressing the issue of detention. All these measures certainly give us a better Italy from this point of view and explain why - we will then return to the explanation of vote - we can and must vote in favour of this measure. In any case, however, I believe that it will be necessary, if we are to be able to discuss amnesty and indult, to consider how to accompany an emergency measure and to carry out a general revision of the Gozzini law that goes in this direction, looking also at the most open international experiences from the point of view of the liberal conception of punishment and the entire system of execution of penalties. I believe that what is contained in this law is positive. The parliamentary process has also helped us to identify improvements that go in the direction I have just said. Today the Senate is called to vote on a measure that concludes a path started last summer and that gives us a better situation: the ratio of the measure is not only to face the emergency prison, but also to use to the best what the doctrine has given us in terms of rehabilitation, reeducation and reintegration, to include it in our legislation and thus respond to the remarks of the European Union and the appeal of the Head of State. Before that, however, I believe that this is a very serious need for civil life, which will help us to build a society based not on fear, but on the need to educate our citizens, all of them, in the values underlying our civil coexistence. The deviation from these values must not become an indelible mark on those who have made it responsible, but a lost opportunity that society has all the duty, even before the right, to return to those who have violated the penal code and the laws, in order to still be considered a full citizen. This is what allows the measure under consideration, and those who preceded it, but who respond to the same logic, to find our consent. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u16	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u17	Mr President, I will confine myself only to a few reflections and I will reserve the most political considerations to the explanation of vote that I will make later. I would simply like to say that, from our point of view, this decree-law, which has unfortunately been removed from the House of Deputies' initiative, is a real missed opportunity. It is a missed opportunity because there would have been a need for a much more incisive measure and to think more seriously about the condition of the prison population in our country. Moreover, this is the third or perhaps even the fourth measure that has been adopted over the last few months to try to respond to the pressing demands from Europe, in particular following the Torreggiani judgment. In fact, all this work has led to a decrease in the prison population of only 3,000 units (we have fallen from 65,000 a few months ago to 62,000 today), compared to a capacity that, according to all the reference data, should not exceed 47,000 people. It is clear that we are faced with a prison situation in our country that really does not have equals on the European continent and that it is embarrassing Italy. Only Putin's Russia is worse than us. Even Turkey, to which they were inspired, a few decades ago, film on a devastating prison condition, is better placed than we are. Unfortunately, even this measure, which could actually be a step forward, has been profoundly modified, riddled - if I may say so - by those who have agitated during these weeks the fear of the indult. Once again they wanted to cultivate that belly of the country and that factory of fear which, for too many years, was the real reason why politics did not have the courage to address - as it should have - these issues. From this point of view, I really believe that there is a huge political responsibility of those who run a blog, read by hundreds of thousands of people, who are unpunished to say that a decree like this would free murderers and rapists: a huge political responsibility of those who use the pain, however sacred and just, of the victims' family members, almost as if the laws in force in all these years had not been created by the same who today put in place an unbearable rhetoric. I think that this unbearable rhetoric should have been put to much more courage and the strength to say that, in our condition, structural measures, indult and amnesty measures would be needed and, of course, it would also be necessary to repeal those laws which have led to overcrowding over the last few years. Let me say this, Mr President: all the powerlessness of politics is really measured on this. When it happens, as happens in our country, that the Constitutional Court, exactly as happened on the electoral law, produces acts much more effective than political ones and, therefore, questions the Fini-Giovanardi with much more force than politics has been able to do, it is there that the element of weakness is measured and that is where the loss of credibility is measured. Then we do not come to complain if politics is now considered to be completely devoid of credibility. I would just like to add a few points which go more specifically, also because, following the Constitutional Court's ruling, there are some aspects of the measure that seem to me to be at least worthy of attention. My political side, in the Chamber of Deputies in particular, had welcomed Article 2, which amends the single text on drugs, which deals with paragraph 5 of Article 73 on minor matters and makes them an independent offence, because it went towards proposals for popular initiative. We had, however, strongly contested the fact that the threshold of the maximum edittal level simply fell from six to five years, which seemed to us absolutely not sufficient. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that, in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, I believe that Parliament and perhaps also the Government through a decree (when there is, if we have the pleasure of having it) will have to intervene forcefully on this ground. I repeat that the judgment of the Constitutional Court - which will of course have to be carefully analysed when it is published - already shows some problematic aspects. In fact, because of the nature of the questions submitted to it and also on the basis of the statement that was given in the issuing of the judgment, it seems peaceful that the current Article 73, as amended by Law No 49 of 2006, is intended to leave room for the pre-existing law referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990, the so-called law Jervolino-Vassalli. It is clear that, even from the criminal point of view alone, the effects are enormous: the restoration of a sanctioning difference between soft drugs and heavy drugs will inevitably have an effect on judgments that have not yet been judged and opens up very significant and complicated problems for final sentences. In particular, the penalties provided for in Article 73 for offences relating to the substances in Table 2, namely cannabis and derivatives, will pass, when the judgment is published, from the six years in the minimum and twenty in the maximum today foreseen to the much more modest two and six years, respectively, in the minimum and maximum. Since in the decree of the Government the paragraph 5 of article 73 is modified, with reference to the facts of small entity, that - as I have just pointed out - become autonomous and no longer mitigating circumstance, and therefore we pass from a penalty that goes from one to six years to another that goes from one to five years for all the substances, I believe it is possible that in this case there are profiles of unconstitutionality. In the so-called Jervolino-Vassalli law, in fact, for cannabis the criminal penalty for minor events was the imprisonment from six months to four years, differentiated from the crimes related to other substances. I would therefore also like to ask the Government what happens before the combined provision of these two factors: the judgment of the Court, on the one hand, and the decree under consideration, on the other. We think that the consequences of this may even be paradoxical. For example, a possessor of enormous quantities, even 200-300 kilograms of hashish, could be punished with imprisonment from two to six years, and instead a holder of 20 grams of the same substance could be punished with imprisonment from one to five years. As you understand, this is a total legal absurdity. I therefore think that action must be taken very quickly on this issue, because there is a risk of an unexplained situation. Finally, I would like to make a comment on Article 4 concerning special early release. In this regard, we have heard, over the last few weeks, the most disparate things; we have also heard a very unbearable rhetoric about this. From our point of view, the situation is exactly opposite to that foreshadowed by others. In fact, in our opinion the measure - this is why we will finally vote against - is completely ineffective because it does not give structural answers to the condition of suffering in prisons, and it is not true, as it is said, that there will be a significant exit of people from the prisons. Moreover, it is a premium discipline, as we know, introduced in 1975, which over the last few years, despite a condition of total disaster and suffering, has avoided at least real riots within Italian prisons, as has happened over the past years. To claim that this is a masked indult is a real shame and a lie, especially because, with the amendment introduced to the Chamber of Deputies in order to exclude from the scope of these provisions the condemned for some of the crimes provided for in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975, the scope of application is really minimal. I mean, as I will repeat in the explanation of vote, we could have done much more, the government could have done much more... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u18	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u19	Mr President, we do not like the decree-law in question, both for the reasons which we announced in part yesterday in the debate on the question of the preliminary ruling and for a number of substantive comments, which I shall try to explain briefly here and which will then be referred to in the course of the explanations of the amendments. First of all, it must be criticised that once again, in the context of the decree of urgency, the principles relating to personal freedom and to what is governed by Article 13 of the Constitution, and this in spite of any more reasonable indication coming from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, as well as from the doctrine, by virtue of the principle of the absolute reserve of law in criminal matters, with reference to the ordinary law and not already to the emergency law. We do not like the decree under consideration, because he is the son of a government that is now a zombie government: what still grunts, waiting for the coup of grace of the stake that will be stuck in his heart, is a government without any political address and without any overall idea about the management of the emergency of the prisons. We have always said that we are opposed to clemential measures, such as indult and amnesty, and in favour of structural measures, which can give a concrete response to the needs of humanity and justice that come from the suffering of people confined in prisons, and that at the same time they can guarantee the basic principles that allow us to be together in a society and in a community, such as the certainty of punishment. In this decree, which is added to the other speeches, on the one hand late and on the other with a wrong aim, we therefore see action that is certainly not acceptable and - I repeat - absolutely lacking an idea and a political will. On the subject (it has already been said yesterday, but it is appropriate to recall it), last week the Constitutional Court censored - or rather cashed out - two articles, which in these days and hours are leaving the interpreters in the greatest difficulty: I refer to Article 73 of the so-called anti-drugs legislation, namely the decree of the President of the Republic No 309 of 1990, which is leaving in an interpretive vacuum the situation probably of thousands of prisoners, who are probably beginning in these hours to propose applications to the execution judges to see their sentence redetermined and to have an anticipation of their final sentence. To intervene today, at the legislative level, with an amendment of Article 73, and especially of paragraph 5, at a magmatic moment like this, when the bocce are not at all firm - let us remember that the reasons of the Constitutional Court have not yet been deposited - it really seems a gamble, which will put in trouble the judicial offices, the operators of the law and - last but not least - the prisoners, conditioning their destinies. We do not agree with another measure provided for in the decree-law, and indeed we censor it: the repeal of the limit of twice for the obtaining by drug addicts of the custody in trial. To repeal this limit, which seems reasonable to us, will in fact allow the drug addict, who from our point of view should be followed and helped, within rehabilitation paths that can cause the chain of drug addiction to break, to be in the situation of being able to delinquere ad libitum, being able to enjoy constantly, up to the limit of sentence of six years, the benefit of custody in trial. It does not seem to us that this is a measure that is in the interest of even drug addicts who want to find the strength to get out of the addiction circle. Starting at the end of the intervention, the most important issue concerns Article 4 on special early release. Despite what we have heard even now from the representative of SEL, we reiterate that those convicted for crimes of mafia association and for all the offences provided for in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975 on the penitentiary order, such as terrorism, exversion and other serious crimes, are by no means excluded from the benefit of the further 30-day penalty discount for each semester of detention; on the contrary, we have reason to believe that the first paragraph of Article 4, as formulated, generically speaking of "condemned" crime, will not allow the surveillance offices not to grant the measure all the times in which the prisoner, at the time of the petition, is serving the sentence in relation to the so-called satellite crimes. Those who are inside for 416-bis are usually also serving penalties related to mafia activities or mafia support, from robberies to extortion, the abusive port of arms and anything else. It has already happened since the entry into force of the decree-law, when there was not this patch, but it is wrong because it will not allow the magistrates of surveillance to deny the further benefit to those who, while being mobster, are inside, but find themselves serving residuals of sentence of satellite crimes. Therefore, if, as it seems, this decree cannot be amended, we also support the inopportunity to continue its process. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u20	Senator Buccarella, I don't want to correct it, but I think the stake - among other things ash - is destined for vampires and not zombies!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u21	I greet the students of the Istituto Superiore Pio XII in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u23	Mr President, over the last few months we have been dealing with the overcrowding of prisons with a number of measures. The Forza Italia Group has contributed on all measures by introducing the decriminalization of certain crimes and a series of changes to the provision on precautionary measures, shared by the entire Senate. Finally, we have also modified the penalties in our system by introducing, alongside prison detention, home detention, which are two models of atonement of punishment. Mr President, I asked to speak not because I think I can convince you. In these days I have witnessed a majority arrogance in the face of measures that do not have their own correctness, because that singular dialogue between civilized people or who are meant by right is listening and sharing some observations. We have made some technical observations and listen to contradictory answers even in the motivations. The contradiction of motivation is one of the most serious flaws that can exist in justice, let alone in a parliamentary debate. Where is the first contradiction? On the one hand, it is argued that early release and, in this case, special early release must take into account the way in which the sentenced person behaves during the atonement of the sentence. It is a correct and sacred principle and it is the one on which early liberation is founded. On the other hand, however, we are contradicted by the fact that this principle does not apply to Mafia offences. I must acknowledge to the Government that had chosen the most correct solution: it was the judge who assessed in that case, because the exclusion of certain categories involves the unconstitutionality of the norm. But the most serious aspect is that, precisely because it is a matter of equality, it is not possible to exclude from the norm those who are in house detention or under house arrest. In this way, everything we did a month ago is abolished, is contradicted. This position does not take account of the function of punishment and criminal rules: the criminal law must, on the one hand, ensure the safety of the community, on the other, deter those who commit crimes from committing others and, lastly, must encourage drug addicts to give priority to measures and behaviour aimed at therapeutic treatment. Anyone with a minimum of experience or knowledge of drug addiction knows that there is only one way to help an addict: to provide him with a perspective on treatment. This was the purpose of Article 94 of the Drug Law. It has already been pointed out by Mr Buccarella that those convicted of serious crimes, such as terrorism, or those sentenced to four or six years' imprisonment, should they follow a therapeutic programme, had the possibility of accessing probationary custody in social services, which means the exclusion of the sentence. And it was established that such a procedure could be applied no more than twice, not because it wanted to be linked to an automatism but because it wanted to give an indication for a path of effective recovery of the drug addict. Now we also remove this limit. Do you realize that? We can establish that a drug addict who follows a therapeutic program will be condoned for twelve years of imprisonment, thus enjoying all the probationary assignments for a period of three years, with the exception of the crimes punished with a sentence of four or six years of imprisonment. Now we also delete this prediction. Do you realize that this system has no deterrent force anymore? Although we were in opposition, we have helped to approve all those rules that make prison an extreme ratio. But now we move from the solution of the prison as an extreme ratio to the one that allows to get out of the prison even those who do not have to get out and to guarantee the non resort to the indult; it is enough to consider the difference of treatment between the prisoners and the prisoners under house arrest. That is not the right way to legislate. I must acknowledge to the Government that I have given some guidance on early release. In this case, too, we had proposed that the penalty reduction for every six months should be set not at 75 days but at 60 days, but that we should apply this early release to all, so as to guarantee the constitutional principles of equality which are the basis of our legal system. But we have been told no, and that is because we are not concerned about the consequences. I don't want to be mischievous, but since the measure before our examination is a retroactive measure up to three years and applicable for the two years to come (before, until the end of 2015), someone probably also had the secret thought that the recourse to the Constitutional Court will be useless because there will be no time to decide and when the decision of the Court will arrive, of course, the rule will already have its effects. That's not the way to behave. It was clear that we were willing, even though we were opposed, to the extent that we had tabled many amendments on the various measures. Only in the other provisions you shared them, while in this you didn't. Why? Why did you prevent the discussion of this measure from being scheduled last Thursday, which would have allowed us to return to the House? Or perhaps you were afraid that the House would no longer pass? This is a wrong way to legislate. We can't work under moral blackmail like: "O approve this, even if it is wrong, otherwise I am not available to talk to you. Wrong criminal law leads to serious consequences. You have heard the consequences in this regard at the last inauguration of the judicial year: there is an exponential increase in thefts and robberies in the home. Well, with this measure we say that even those responsible for armed robbery, those responsible for extortion, must be expelled, but first it must not be condemned, as we supported in the past legislature, but also a month ago, approving the abolition of the rule that provides for the crime of illegality. On that occasion you said: "All right, but there is paragraph 13-a of Article 13 of the single text on immigration that allows to condemn the culprit, once expelled and then returned, for another crime". Now what? Now remove that 13-a paragraph that could justify the elimination of the crime of clandestineness. There is a contradiction of behavior that is difficult to read even for us who are here. It will also have to give a difficult interpretation of confused rules: let alone what deterrent they may have. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u24	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u25	Mr President, the decree-law that we are dealing with today is part of the measures that we can define as necessary as a result of the urgency to take measures to reduce, with immediate effects, prison overcrowding, an endemic phenomenon that, together with the degradation of prison structures, has generated living conditions characterized by the compromise of the fundamental rights of prisoners. Mr President, in view of the time constraints, I will then ask you for permission to give the written intervention. I shall now confine myself to a few comments on the comments made by my fellow Members during the general debate on the alleged unconstitutionality of the rules that we are going to adopt. In particular, it has been said that, because of the intervention of the Constitutional Court on the law Fini-Giovanardi, declared unconstitutional, the provision that today occupies us would present profiles of unconstitutionality because it intervenes precisely on that law, which no longer exists, while reliving the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990, with successive modifications. The forecast of amendment of paragraph 5 of Article 73 of the decree of the President of the Republic cited above, providing for the transformation into an autonomous case of crime of the mitigating circumstance of the crime of detention and illicit supply of drugs, would have avoided the aberrant situations that have occurred with the comparison of the circumstances by the judge, that is very heavy penalties for minor facts. Now, however, the Fini-Giovanardi law has failed, if this amendment were to apply to the existing legislation, which comes into force following the Court's judgment, the same facts would be punished with a wider edittal penalty. These are the two disputes that have been raised. On this point I believe that Senator Lumia yesterday has already cleared the field, in a very comprehensive and clear way, from the misunderstandings on these issues, but it is appropriate to help eliminate further doubts and ambiguities. There is no ambiguity of the rule that we are about to adopt. In the case of proceedings in progress, it may be the judge who applies the principle of favour with the mildest penalty provided for, while in the case of proceedings which will be instituted once this rule has been adopted, a small regulatory intervention will be sufficient to remedy the inconsistencies which are determined by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Meanwhile, however, proceed quickly to the conversion of this decree-law, which certainly presents enormous innovative profiles of extreme importance (and in the text that I will deliver is contained the overall judgment on the entire decree); profiles that are sure to be framed in the virtuous path that, finally, has been started in this legislature in order to remedy the problem of the overcrowding of the prisons. With regard to the exclusion of Mafia crimes from the granting of special early release, there is certainly no question of unconstitutionality in this respect either. The case-law of the Constitutional Court and also of the European Court of Human Rights, which have ruled out that there may be profiles of unconstitutionality or illegality of any kind, is certainly helpful, given the capacity and the criminal importance of those who have been guilty of such articles and, above all, because of the temporary nature of the measure because, as we know, the measure of granting early release refers only to a well-defined period. Precisely for these reasons, the unconstitutionality of the norm has always been excluded. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask for permission to give my speech. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u26	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u27	Mr President, the debate has certainly highlighted interesting suggestions for improvements which are not to be excluded in future measures. The very short time we are in for the approval of this decree and the urgency to confirm measures of great importance for the objectives that the decree itself wants to achieve, however, do not allow us, at this stage, to accept the solicitations and suggestions of colleagues. However, I would like to reiterate a number of issues which seem to me to be important and which have emerged as doubts in the debate. The treatment of prisoners is a treatment that takes account of the type of crime, but that certainly cannot be considered unconstitutional. In our current legislation there are differences of treatment, which exclude and include certain offences. The primary objective is to reduce the prison population. Therefore, clemency measures relating to the treatment of housewives (which has been included in this measure in a structural way) certainly do not aim to further reduce the prison population. Those who are at home have already had the benefit of being able to serve the sentence in a facilitated condition and allowing to maintain a whole series of prerogatives, such as that of living in their own home. Special premium legislation has the primary objective of reducing the prison population and, at the same time, of leaving the judge the assessment whether or not to apply the premium conditions that are foreseen, and which have been further extended to 75 days every six months. I must say, however, to reassure the public as well, that these premium conditions are limited to two years from this measure. The 75-day premium law does not go to an endless regime and, at the same time, is always subject to the judge's assessment and excludes crimes of particular gravity such as those of a mafia nature. Therefore, this measure has the primary objective of reducing the prison population, but not with an emergency measure but with structural measures, which should allow our prison system to face the future deadlines of verification of the European Court and, at the same time, to deal with the restructuring of our detention system with greater flexibility, which is certainly unacceptable in many parts of our country from the point of view of standards but also of the general conditions of human beings who are held there. [[Applause from Senator Lumia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u28	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u29	Mr President, the reply from us can only be brief in certain respects. The speeches which have been made in general debate have certainly revealed some problems and considerations which we believe should be considered very seriously. Unfortunately, I can only share what Mr Cappelletti has said, saying that this is a measure to be taken or left, c'est à prendre ou à laisser. We are at the limit of sixty days to convert this decree-law, which was held by the House for over fifty days. It is now before this House, which for the umpteenth time, among other things, has been deprived of its powers, whereas it could have expressed a serious opinion. As we have heard in the speeches made both in the Commission and in this House, there were necessary, appropriate and, we say, indispensable changes to make. The sentence Torreggiani unfortunately now appears as a sword of Damocles on our head, which arrives and sets a final deadline within which to adopt measures. As Senator Bignami said, there is a stepmother Europe, and we can only share this expression. We are faced with an imposition on the part of Europe, which will involve the application of serious sanctions and which at this point puts Parliament in a position to continually adopt measures that we find absolutely harmful. Senator Alberti Casellati said that perhaps it is better a law less than a proliferation of pernicious laws. We are here for the fourth time in this House to talk about measures called 'empty prisons'. They are fragmentary measures, as Senator Susta said, and they do not involve organic intervention and an organic and overall assessment of this problem. The problem of overcrowding in prisons will probably not be solved by these interventions. It is a major problem, which had to be analysed and evaluated upstream, with far more significant interventions. Senator De Cristofaro says that actually this is a provision in some ways useless (also for us it is useless) and shameful (also for us it is shameful). Not in the sense that perhaps it gets too little free, but in the sense that it inserts a method of evaluation and consideration of a problem for us really and absolutely pernicious. When we began work in the Justice Commission in this parliamentary term, we were talking about investigations into the prison system. It was immediately understood that one of the most important problems to be addressed was the overcrowding of prisons. These cognitive investigations have been sketched out, but they have certainly not come to a term that we can consider satisfactory. All these fragmentary and in some ways disorganic interventions are not even understood how they can intervene, to what extent and to what extent, on the problem of overcrowding of prisons. There has been talk of amnesty and indult, and probably all of us feel in difficulty, even the majority, to be able to assess such dramatic measures. We of the North League will certainly oppose each other in any way. The measures that we are examining and which are continually affecting criminal proceedings, criminal law and penalties are extremely uneven. They are measures that create a form - pass me the expression - of destabilizing the system. The right operator is witnessing a continuous proliferation of rules, one after the other, without being able to understand what they will entail and what the penalty will be for a particular crime. This is true of the legal operator, while for the criminal operator this will be a godsend from heaven. Moreover, according to the considerations made by Senator De Cristofaro of SEL, who said that there are probably few releases, we are creating an absolutely inefficient system or, in any case, adopting solutions that do not even lead to the achievement of the desired result. With the preparation of many colleagues, including the Justice Commission, we could certainly have taken this measure seriously. The perplexities are many, and something could really be done, but the time limits imposed make the application of the reform aimed at the suppression of the Senate seem already begun! [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u30	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, and all the members of the Commission for their work and their contribution, both in the short term and in the long run. I think it is useful to stress that no one, throughout the debate, has contested a fact that is that of the prison emergency: a very serious emergency that the Government has found and with which it has been confronted in recent months, with very positive results. We would therefore have liked, even from those who contest the content of the measure, to acknowledge the efforts made and the results achieved. President Palma asks to know the data, and the data are certainly there, and they allow to say that in a few months the existing scissors between regulatory posts for inmates and actual inmates has been considerably reduced, since, starting from the 70,000 prisoners with 41,000 regulatory posts, we have reached, on 31 January, 61,500 prisoners with about 48,000 regulatory posts. The results are obvious and are very significant. They are children of a dual lever, the one connected to the prison plan, which is finally giving significant results thanks also to the collaboration between the commissioner and the Department of the penitentiary administration, and that of the measures put in place, also through the fruitful collaboration that there has been between the government and Parliament. I refer in the first place to Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013 and now to this further Decree-Law, adopted last December. We have tried, with significant results but that do not completely remove the problem, to respond to the call contained in the judgment in Torreggiani of 8 January last year, thus trying to achieve the objective by the end of next May. This is certainly a constraint deriving from membership of the Council of Europe, but equally significant for us is the need to respond to the reference, several times here mentioned, contained in Article 27 of the Constitution which imposes a penalty really aimed at recovery, which presupposes a reduction of numbers and activation within the prison structures of a series of activities that are possible only where there are conditions of livability and civilization. At the same time, Mr President, we have decided to take these measures to give firm and prompt response to the message of the President of the Republic of 7 October 2013, the first message to the Chambers of President Napolitano, the first heartfelt message, regarding which all the measures contained in the decree-law today in the examination of the Senate are certainly instrumental to the achievement of the objective: probably not exhaustive, but certainly very significant. 11.20 a.m. (Berretta, State Secretary for Justice) In the decree, in fact, we are dealing with reducing the prison emergency by reducing the pressure and the number of prisoners through common sense measures, such as that concerning the expulsion of immigrants. Here too, from those who have repeatedly called for more effective policies on this front, we would have expected a different attitude. We have introduced a special institute of early release limited in time (and I will return to this); we have significantly modified the discipline on trade and drug use; more importantly, we have stabilized numerous measures to facilitate the use of alternative forms of detention (home detention and house arrest), while ensuring the safety of citizens, because finally, after so many years of waiting, the electronic bracelet will be used in a very significant way. In this sense we have had an express recognition of the goodness of the measure by the Chief of Police, who reassured us about the effectiveness of the instrument, its usability for 2,000 persons under house arrest. We have, therefore, certainly adopted concrete measures which counter the need to ease the tension within prisons with the need to reassure and ensure the safety of citizens. We have also introduced measures to guarantee the prisoner, to give him the opportunity to make himself heard through the complaint to some administrative authorities and to the judicial authority. We have finally established the National Prisoner Supervisor, who will have the function, the task and the possibility of verifying, controlling, intervening, where there are inappropriate detention conditions. The parliamentary process has allowed us to deal with some of the issues contained in the decree-law itself. In particular, with regard to the special early release, the Government, already aware of the objective diversity that exists in relation to some serious crimes and therefore to persons detained for crimes referred to in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975, had provided for an even more in-depth verification by the magistrate, who could have granted access to the benefit only in the presence of behaviors revealing the positive evolution of personality and a concrete social recovery. Parliament, at first reading by the Chambers, considered that, even so formulated, the rule could raise problems and doubts regarding the safety of citizens and made an amendment excluding the application of the special early release with reference to prisoners for the offences referred to in Article 4-a of Law No 354 of 1975. This change, contrary to what Senator Caliendo said, in our opinion does not pose any constitutional problem, since it is a special and temporary measure, and in any case having retained the possibility for these prisoners to benefit from the 45-day ordinary early release. I repeat, this is an extraordinary and time-limited measure, which considers an objective diversity linked to the seriousness of the crimes for which the persons are detained. So here too we feel reassured. Another issue we have addressed has been the possibility of applying precautionary measures to children accused of small drug dealing. In this regard, too, there was a risk that, as a result of the amendment introduced by the decree, precautionary measures would no longer be applicable, which in this case are measures of custody to the communities. In this case, we have introduced a change in order to keep alive the possibility of the application of the precautionary measure not in prison also with regard to minors, thus preventing the risk of instrumental use by the criminal organizations of the children themselves. This amendment also goes in the direction of improving the text, and the Government has shared and supported it. Mr President, the Commission and President Palma have asked us for a series of information and data. In particular, at its meeting on 6 February last, at a time when the issue of amnesty and indult was being addressed, therefore, in the context of another measure compared to the decree-law currently under consideration, the Commission requested a series of information and data concerning the number of prisoners and their development, and the reasons related to possible release: information aimed at verifying the effectiveness of the two measures adopted so far by decree. This request has been made by us and repeated at the offices. We are therefore certain that we can provide data that are very complex. In fact, I do not think that President Palma is interested in simply knowing the number of prisoners; instead, I think we need to have more in-depth information. The fact remains that in the report accompanying the decree-law and in the technical report a series of forecasts linked to the effectiveness of the measure and its effects from the point of view of the numbers are contained. These are significant numbers, as are also significant the results obtained so far, because following Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013 the entry into prison has halved: we are talking about at least 3,000-3,500 people who have not entered prison following the application of the rules of the new forecast; as, moreover, approximately 2,000 are the subjects to whom the discipline has been applied in relation to the special early release. This does not mean, however, that they are subjects who have left, that is, that they are no longer in prison. The measure has been applied, but this does not mean that they have been released. As the Commission has rightly requested more analytical data, we reserve the right to provide them with the utmost cooperation, and if we do not do so we will do so by the next Government. In any case, all the information that the Commission rightly needs will be provided when it is examining amnesty and indult, measures that are before Parliament. One final consideration. It has been said, probably criticizing him both from the right and from the left, that this measure does not solve the problems entirely. I believe that this awareness is also on the part of the Government; however, I think that these are concrete measures which are already giving important results and that we must continue on this path. Of course, these measures, which are effective, must be accompanied by a comprehensive reform. In this sense, it is obvious that the reforms before Parliament in the area of custody, testing, decriminalisation and so on, if finally completed, will be the necessary framework to tackle in a truly comprehensive way the problem of the prison emergency and the problem of the effectiveness and efficiency of our criminal justice. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u32	We greet the students of the Institute including Roccafluvione, in the province of Ascoli Piceno, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u33	President Palma asked to intervene on the data provided by the government, which I think he requested yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u34	Mr President, I should like to begin by correcting a statement by the Undersecretary. If it is true, on the one hand, that these data were requested in the course of the investigation in the Commission concerning amnesty, it is also true that the request for these data was repeated precisely with reference to the decree-law in question. I listened carefully to the Secretary's speech: I am pleased with the speaking capacity, but I regret the lack of content. Beyond the number of the 70,000 inmates, which - if I remember correctly, even with reference to the hearing of President Tamburino - has never appeared (so it is probably a rounding for excess of the number of 69,000 and beyond that it was known), and beyond the increase of the places for the inmates, from 41,000 to 48,000, the problem that I posed yesterday was different. I thank the Undersecretary for recognising that the request was made for the first time on 6 February, so about 12 days ago. Mr President, Senators, we are intervening, one way or another, on the system of criminal prosecution and, on the other hand, on the system of protective custody. On the point, there was a decree-law of the government. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u35	Colleagues, Senator Palma is taking action on the order of business. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u36	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). With reference to this, we simply wanted to know how many prisoners had left in recent months by virtue of that decree-law presented by the Government, so as to verify, after a few months, the effects that the measure had had on the overcrowding prison. In thinking about systems, in fact, it is inevitable to make a cost-benefit weighting: we widen certain benefits already foreseen by the penitentiary order to allow an impact on the overcrowding prison, but we would like to understand if this enlargement of the benefits is supported by a real impact on overcrowding. In order to do this, the Government has not given us any data, stating that they are complex and difficult data. I have been Minister of Justice for some time and I can say that at the time I would not have been able to provide the data in a day or two, but I certainly could have done so in the space of three or four days. As a second point, Mr President, we would like to understand, with respect to prison overcrowding, how much has affected a measure that was first launched by the Senate Justice Commission and then confirmed in the Chamber of Deputies: I am referring to the raising to five years of the ceiling of the sentence for the purpose of detention in prison, which is different from the empty prison decree originally presented by the Government. We would like to understand, for example, whether this failure to enter prisons, compared to previous averages, depends on the measures taken originally by the Government in the decree or even in part on this restriction in the issuing of precautionary measures. But let's get to today's decree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on you to intervene on the order of business, Senator Palma, and not on the contents of the measure. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm not talking about merit, ma'am. I'm sorry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This can be done either in an explanation of vote or under discussion. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, President, but to say that in a measure there is protective custody and to ask how many people have not entered prison because of the change that has taken place... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already done that. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm telling you, I'm not going into this debate. Allow me to move on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, but stick to the order of business. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm on the order of business. Finally, coming to the decree that we are going to convert, which has entered into force for about a month and a half, I hope that the Ministry, when they have imagined it, have made a prediction on the impact of this on the overcrowding prison, based on the data available to the DAP. We would like to understand how many people have already left because of this decree and how many the Ministry expects them to leave (this is all the speech), in order to allow the senators to express their vote consciously. We are faced with the following data: Senator Lumia in his speech spoke of 62,000 prisoners, while the Undersecretary of 61,500 persons currently in prison, with a number of places equal to 48,000. In May we have the European clerk. The question I ask is: is this decree able to thin out the world of prison suffering for 13,500 units, or not? And if, hypothetically, he could thin it out - as they say - for 1,000 or 2,000 units, would the game really be worth the candle? I'm done. Thank you for your attention. A little respect, though. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The President should listen to the speeches, dear Senator Russo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u38	What are you talking about? STEFANI, minority rapporteur. I am speaking precisely on the consideration that President Palma has raised. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Keep to the order of business. No more interventions are possible. STEFANI, minority rapporteur. As I said in the replica, the investigation into the prison system has not been completed. These data are really essential in order to be able to examine the impact of the measures. A decree-law has been issued, and therefore with immediate effect, which provides for liberation; it is not known exactly how many prisoners have been released and it is not known - as evidenced by Senator Palma - what the incidence has been. For example, there was talk of missed entrances. Therefore, every time we discuss a measure in this House, we do not know what its effect will be on the whole system. This is fundamental, however, because - as has just been pointed out - these measures must not be fragmentary, but must be organic; one must evaluate unitarily, with a programme studied, how to deal with the problem of overcrowding in prisons. These data are really very important. Obviously they are not easy to find, but you need to understand which measure is best for you (for us it will always be the worst solution) or at least you need to check whether it is better to intervene on the application of protective custody, early release or decriminalization. These are issues that we are constantly dealing with in an uneven way, without fully understanding the effect of the individual measures. At this point, we can now see what will unfortunately be the conclusion of this measure. I think, however, that we cannot ignore the evaluation of the examination of these data. It is hoped that there will be another type of approach and that it will shortly be possible to consider the impact of these measures in a systematic, almost mathematical way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u41	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, as the M5S Group, we welcome the comments and the call for reflection already made by the previous senators. It is truly a criterion of reasonableness to stop for a moment to try to understand whether, by continuing with this measure, we will do further damage in a magmatic situation that is not known, in relation to data relating to the release of prisoners under previous laws. So, I repeat, let us make our own the political position expressed, for every prudent assessment that this House will be able to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u42	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, decided that, in relation to the timetable for the consultations of the President of the Council responsible for the formation of the new Government, the work of the Assembly should be suspended today. The Assembly will return to meet again tomorrow morning, at 10.30 a.m., with a single session that does not provide closing hours, for the follow-up of the discussion of the decree-law on the reduction of the prison population and for the examination of the decree-law on the Italian plan "Destinazione Italia" (the latter even if not concluded by the competent Commissions). The explanations of vote on the two expired decree-laws will take place, respectively, around 2 p.m. and around 7 p.m. The Presidency will harmonize the timing of the debate in order to allow the deadlines to be respected, possibly by voting on the amendments without further intervention. During the afternoon sitting on Thursday 20 February, discussion of the decree-law on local authorities will begin, even if not concluded by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u45	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out the absurd and unfair situation in which borderers, Italian citizens living near the border who work in the neighbouring foreign country, find themselves. With Law No 97 of 2013, a 20% tax on payment flows from abroad to Italy is expected from 1 February 2013, assuming that these are investments of a financial nature likely to produce taxable income in Italy. It is left to users to declare with self-certification the part of the financial flow that is not tax-taxable with this tax. Frontiers are in a situation of exemption from the application of 20% retention, but to enforce this exemption they must have self-certification. The problem is that, in the meantime, while self-certification is not yet available to banks, they have already seen a 20% reduction in the amount of salary subsidies they are receiving from the companies they work with. In practice, they will have to ask subsequently for the return of what is unduly withheld, waiting for a return from the State, which - we know well what the time - will come who knows when. In the meantime, however, they found their salary unduly reduced by 20%. This is the situation that I hope the Government - whose representative is absent at this time - will be able to take into account, in order to give immediate provisions so that the banks do not apply the retention in these situations, which are already provided for as an exemption. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u48	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to represent you and remind you of what some may have missed in reading today's news, namely the very serious situation that has become apparent, but which should not surprise us, in North Korea. In fact, the United Nations report has been published, which tells of a situation that has a lot of similarities with the horrors of World War II. The Korean people are hungry and there are secret prison camps where torture takes place. According to estimates, hundreds of thousands of deaths are reported: that is why I am talking about a similarity with the extermination camps of World War II. I believe that Italy must do everything in its power to intervene in this situation, of course at the level of the United Nations. As we know, Michael Kirby, the United Nations representative, has proposed the possibility of activating the International Criminal Court in The Hague, but unfortunately the hostility of China, which, as a member of the UN Security Council, could veto it, has already occurred. Some of the colleagues who have visited North Korea, even recently (I think of Senators Razzi and Romans), also have the right contacts with the Korean authorities, and therefore they will also be able to take action to ask both the ambassador of North Korea to Italy, and their possible knowledge made on these trips. At this point, we can't turn on the other side. I quote Kirby's words: "Now the world knows, there is no more excuse, you have to act." I wonder what action can this Parliament and the government that is about to take to counter what is repeated periodically: we saw a similar report last year, two years ago. Let us therefore act in the most convinced and effective way possible in the face of this abomination. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u49	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-194.ana.u50	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 19 February, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.46 p.m.
