ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:43 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I recall that Articles 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 were adopted at yesterday's sitting and Articles 10, 11, 12 and 15 were laid down. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. From this point of view, as we are about to deal with the examination of amendments on matters relating to the direct election of the Head of State and the form of government, in order to rationalise the debate, the Presidency allows the explanation of all the amendments referred to in Articles 21, 22, 24 and 25, and then reserves the right to give a ruling, after the illustration, on their feasibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u11	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, you have come a little bit to the request I would have made to you now. It is clear from yesterday's account of the contingency periods which I asked for at 4.15 p.m. that the voting time was just over 6 hours, compared to an 80-hour allocated time; so, between guillotines, kangaroos and anything else, it was shown that this time had been foreordained in a very, very exaggerated way. In contrast to the voting times, those for discussions, which for the 5 Star Movement were 2 hours and 45 minutes and which for the other Groups were just over 2 hours, are considerably reduced. I would therefore ask you, if possible, in view of this resounding error, to redistribute the excessive voting time, so as to give new time to explain the amendments, also because, having voted just over 5,000 amendments in 6 hours, it follows that the vote of the remaining few would remain more than 70 hours. The fact that it has now made it possible to present the amendments is a good thing. So I would also ask you, in order to organize us, if it is possible to redefine these times. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u12	Since, as you will know, the quota of the times is a prerogative of the Conference of Leaders, it cannot but be the President who tries to harmonise and rationalise the debate in such a way as to achieve the objectives that emerged from the previous meeting of the Leaders, with the contingency times, but without stifling the debate and thus giving the opportunity to... MARTON (M5S). But like without choking! He's been choking for 15 days! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the Conference of Leaders asks me to review these times, of course, it will take place, but the problem will be to address a debate by giving each political group the opportunity to express their position on the issues we are dealing with. In my opinion, this is the most rational way to proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u15	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, your starting point for democracy is moving, but it seems to me that you are choking with a... president. Look, the ironies, please, CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is up to you to start the day. Let's lighten up a little... president. The emotional question of democracy is not. I'm sorry to move you in the morning. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). However, his idea of a non-motivating democracy leads to a consideration of merit. If we use the little time we have to discuss amendments that will not even be put to the vote, this of course screams with the need to go to the core of the issues, instead of throwing time away. So define what the acceptable amendments are and then we commit the remaining time to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u16	The Presidency has reserved the right to decide precisely in relation to the explanation of the amendments. Then everyone will be able to take their political position on the amendments and on what they involve. We shall therefore proceed with the explanation of the amendments and the possible debate on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u19	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have not spoken so far in the broad debate we have had on the various articles, but at this point a speech on the amendments that I have tabled together with other colleagues in my Group is essential. We are well aware that there is no broad convergence in this House on the subject of the direct popular election of the President of the Republic; however, the Forza Italia Group makes this proposal one of the peculiarities of its overall vision of the reform of the institutions. I would like to remind you that the theme of direct democracy, of the popular election of the executive leadership, has had various forms of representation. For example, in the constitutional reform that was approved in 2006, and then not confirmed by the referendum, the direct election was about the Premier, and I would also like to remind you that if that reform had come into force we would have had a Parliament reduced in numbers since 2008, a bipolarism consolidated with the direct election of the Premier and certainly also an electoral law that would follow consequently a system of election of the Premier with a ballot. This has not been the case, and therefore the delay that the institutions and politics are experiencing is also the result of the development of those events. Moreover, the Constitution provides for a confirmation referendum; those who have promoted it have acted within the prerogatives provided for in the Constitution and today we find ourselves, eight years late, discussing these matters. There have been moments of convergence, although the theme of the direct election of the Premier or the Head of State has not been part of the subjects that have recorded a broad and transversal sharing. I would also like to mention, Mr President, the essential contribution to this reform process of the Forza Italia Group. Since the President of the Council has repeatedly praised the Senators of the majority who support the Government, let me also claim the merits of our Group without whose contribution we probably would not have reached a decisive and turning point in this reform. We have supported this reform, although it does not represent our objectives 100%. A few weeks ago, President Berlusconi, explaining the positions of Forza Italia, reiterated our adherence to the reform because he is pursuing the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, however the improvement of the decision-making mechanisms. Therefore, for these reasons, we share a reform, albeit partial to our objectives, and it was precisely President Berlusconi who reminded us of the amendments on presidentialism that we had tabled. These amendments, I would like to stress this because they are not a sine qua non for us: partial and insufficient reform, however, we will agree with them, because, as I said just now, it will help to make the institutional mechanisms more efficient, but we believe that the House should still speak on the issue of the direct election of the Head of State. You have reserved a decision on whether or not the amendments are admissible, someone has also objected to the procedures, but I want to acknowledge that in addition to the essential contribution of the Forza Italia Group, without which we would not have reached this point, even the decisions you have taken in various sensitive passages have allowed the reform to reach the point where we are, so if you considered taking the decision after the illustrations you would have had your good reason to do so. I believe that the dilemma is solved very simply by Article 97 (1) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which I invite all, including the members of the Government, who are new to events of this kind, to read, because it clearly indicates that there must be a homogeneity of matter, and the homogeneity is certainly there. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this issue has already been raised and I have had a lot of comparisons with the President, rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, in the case of the work of the Commission, and also with the exchanges of letters. President Finocchiaro did not consider that he could accept in the Commission the amendments which could affect changes to the governing structures, considering that the reform process should be confined to certain parts of the functioning of Parliament, Title V of Part II and other matters that are at the heart of this proposal. I have expressed a different view, and now this issue of admissibility is again with another interlocutor, who is the President of this House. In my view, Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure makes this issue incontrovertible. I have, however, tabled a number of amendments which I have multiplied in view of the House's examination. The amendments tabled at first alter in some way the structure of government and give the President of the Republic other powers: there is an amendment, for example, that on the French model allows the President of the Republic to preside over the Council of Ministers, even in the presence of a Prime Minister. I do not dwell on the matter, not least because of a question of the economy of time, but in France it works like this: there is the Prime Minister, but the President elected by the people is the depositary of powers, responsibility and he can also participate in the meetings of the Government, which, of course, presides over his office. Moreover, Mr Grasso, the amendments I tabled were baptized by the House in this very Chamber - it will be remembered by the non-numerous veterans of the previous legislature - where I and Senator Quagliariello signed during the debate on the reform of the Constitution. Those amendments were adopted, I proposed them again in the same text. That reform did not eventually follow, so attempts remained. However, even by accepting the objection made by Senator Finocchiaro in the first Commission, according to which we cannot substantially affect the form of government and therefore the powers of the Head of State, I have tabled two other amendments - which, in particular, Mr Grasso - concerning changes which, in my opinion, do not affect, at least in a formal way, the function of the President of the Republic, except for the fact, my friends, that the substantial function of the Head of State has instead been transformed. As you know, we have a material constitution that is different from the formal one. For many years now the role of the President of the Republic has been transformed: I remember the presidency Scalfaro, the events of the failure to break up Parliament in 1994, the Dini Government, then the Ciampi Presidency and the Napolitano Presidency, (the latter, among other things, repeated by a large majority by the will of Parliament), the Monti Government, a whole series of events that have made the role of the President of the Republic much more incisive. Moreover, the crisis of the political system itself and the development of events have made it possible for the Presidency of the Republic - and I just note this - to take on a different role than in the past. I added then, President Grasso, two other amendments that, leaving the form of government as well as the 1948 Constitution draws it, provide for the direct election by citizens of a President of the Republic with the same powers as the Constitution gives him today: that then the real ones have grown in time is a fact of reality, as politologists and scholars would say, and that certainly does not depend on our debate. In addition to the amendment for the popular election of the President of the Republic without any change of powers - thus remaining the Government, the confidence, the appointment of the Prime Minister and everything that the Constitution provides and which we know well - I have foreseen an amendment, shared by my Group and presented by other colleagues - I see here in the Chamber President Casini, who explained this position - which leaves Parliament, in the first instance, the duty and the right to elect the Head of State. If, after the three votes involving a two-thirds quorum, Parliament fails to express itself, at that point, instead of proceeding with further votes with reduced quorums - there are amendments by other Members who have included amendments in this regard too - in the absence of a positive outcome, then we move on to the people, that is to say to the direct election. I shall begin by concluding, because there could be a variety of considerations on presidentialism, which I refer to possible explanations of vote, which I hope will be followed by a positive opinion on the admissibility of the amendments that we are talking about. I believe - and I say this by preventing the speeches of some of my colleagues, including Senator Zanda - that the issue is largely admissible. On the election of the Head of State, the Commission has already intervened, in some way changing the composition of the electoral body: there are amendments by other Members proposing the involvement of MEPs or the modification of quorums that can be determined as soon as possible. I therefore leave out the arguments in favour of presidentialism, direct democracy and the stability of the institutions, which would be strengthened by this choice. On the other hand, I have no doubt about eligibility, at least of the amendments which - subject to the current forms of government - provide for direct, immediate or subsequent elections to three non-bearing votes in Parliament, because I believe that they must be discussed. Let us assume a responsibility: Forza Italia does not put an alternative between doing this or not doing the reform; we will go on anyway, but we cannot ask ourselves to give up a political instance to which, ladies and gentlemen, the country will arrive. After the election of the mayors and presidents of the Regions, in fact, electing a decision-maker at national level is the need for a modern democracy from which we will not be able to escape, and sooner or later we will get there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I think it is right, therefore, to discuss this in the context of this reform, Mr President: the government will make its own assessments, it could also go back to the House. However, we will go on to conclude this reform, but let us allow ourselves to include in this debate a matter of great importance and great modernity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u22	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, together with another group of colleagues, have a strong preference for the French semi-presidency system. For this reason, I presented a bill to introduce into our legal system the French equal system: this is the Senate Act No. 250, communicated to the Senate Presidency on 21 March 2013. My draft law, however, was excluded from the discussion in the Commission, because the question of the form of government was judged to be unrelated to the ongoing discussion. I shall now explain very briefly why I think it would be preferable to introduce the French system into our system. Its rules and institutions make a significant contribution to the restructuring of parties and their competition. In France, the restructuring of the parties had as they fly the competition for the Presidency of the Republic. This is a system that would be preferable, because presidential politics is now an integral part of the national scene: since 1993 we have elected directly the Government of Municipalities, Provinces and Regions; a few months ago - as stated in President Letta's programme - we had the ambition to elect the President of the European Union directly in the future. We do not understand why the only level that we cannot directly elect is the national level. The French system is also preferable because metamorphosis has already occurred: there are no longer identification and membership, in the ideology in the morale of parties, which can only be replaced by the exercise of the citizenship of the State, with the choice of citizens. It is from the referendums of 1991-1993 that the Italians answered clearly the question that we had asked them: Is it the parties or the citizens who choose the government? And that answers to the parties or the citizens? Since then, we have used electoral laws to answer that question improperly. I would also add that a luminary like Professor Sartori made it clear that the construction of a premiership system on the Westminster model or as in Germany or Spain largely escapes the claims of constitutional engineering, in the sense that it works in that way because there are favourable circumstances, like the great parties, that we no longer have. A non-progressive passage, like shock therapy, would be preferable, according to a scientist like Professor Sartori. Having said all this, however, I believe that the debate we are holding is frankly unacceptable: it is not possible that my draft law has not been discussed nor has it been possible to address the question of the form of government, because it is excluded, whereas today, surreptitiously, with some amendments, it is thought to introduce an issue that should completely redo the architecture of the State. As far as I am concerned, the matter is quickly resolved: either my proposal for a law should have been discussed or the amendments could not be discussed. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u25	CASINI (PI). Mr President, it is clear that my amendment 21.4 has a different scope, because the direct election that I have proposed takes place in a very narrow area from the point of view of the institutional situation: it is intended to be a deterrent to a quarrelsome Parliament which does not reach the quorums envisaged, i.e. 51% higher, in order to elect the Head of State. My proposal is aimed at preventing the Head of State from being imposed by one of the parties. The Head of State is safeguarded in his role as a third party: if the prescribed quorums are not reached in the votes, the election is carried out by universal suffrage and direct by ballot between the first two votes of Parliament, and this also protects the institutions from the risk of external populist adventures, because the two most voted personalities in Parliament contribute, with a sort of supplement of the electorate, to a competition limited to them. I realize that this is a very important matter. Mr Tosato proposed it to the constituent Assembly, the illustrious colleague, Mr Maccanico, proposed it again in a draft law a few years ago. I realize that this proposal risks introducing a big issue like a house, that is, the issue of the direct election of the President of the Republic, albeit in a different logic, as I have said; but I believe that we must find a system and a mechanism to safeguard the third-party status of the Head of State, because with this reform that we are implementing we risk having a Head of State who is the majority. The Government and Minister Boschi have understood this; somehow the Minister has also tried to meet my objection with the raising of the quorum and the widening of the votes for which quorum is required; but, in my opinion, it always ends there, with the possibility of electing the President of the Republic with a quorum of 51%. For these reasons, I have proposed this amendment 21.4 conscientiously to the House and I will vote for it, although I realise it and do not want to create difficulties for the Commission, but these are the terms of the bare and raw question: the need to have a mechanism to safeguard the third-party status of the Head of State. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u28	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I too believe, as has already been said, that for the economy of our work it would have been preferable to know the Presidency's advice on the admissibility of these amendments before the debate took place: we run the risk of having had a debate on inadmissible amendments or of having done so without knowing whether they will be declared admissible. I believe that this is a consideration that the Presidency should bear in mind. I take the floor very briefly to say that I am totally opposed to the admissibility of these amendments on the direct election of the President of the Republic. I am opposed to the arguments that Senator Maran has put forward so in detail and that seem to me conclusive and decisive and that would put a different decision of the Presidency in contrast to what I would call the case law of the Commission which prepared the text, on which we are working and which I believe should have its value. That is my opinion on the application of the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to say, Mr President, that there is a reason for substance. Senator Gasparri spoke very clearly on this issue just now, and even now Senator Casini, with an expression that sums up everything: we are dealing with a matter as big as a house and we would like to introduce an amendment to our order, to which we should at the same time have the amendment of a very substantial part of our Constitution; and when should we do so? I must tell you, Mr President, that frankly I see no reason, neither in terms of the Rules of Procedure nor in the orderly conduct of our work, to doubt whether these amendments are inadmissible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u31	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, this debate highlights a paradox of reform with regard to the form of government: those who have historically supported the presidential or semi-presidency form have in the past been accused of wanting to promote a "plebiscytic derivative" in this country - that was the most popular expression - of giving in to the temptation to give too much power to the direct choice of citizens. In a situation in which the bicameral system fails, and at a time when the audience of the great voters for the Presidency of the Republic narrows, with a House - the political one - governed by a large majority prize, the paradox is evident: a direct choice by the citizens can become a guarantee and almost a rule of closing the system, rather than lend itself to the risks that had been feared. We are witnessing, that is, some sort of paradigm reversal. This is, therefore, the reason why we believe that the form of government should be discussed within this legislature. I would also add that it is also the reason why my party has even promoted a law of popular initiative in this regard, so that this indication can also come from the citizens and be strengthened. Finally, Mr President, once again let me stress that this is also the reason why we believed that constitutional reforms should be discussed in a parliamentary committee with the necessary scope, because changing a part of the Constitution necessarily implies changes on other parts. Having said that, we have noted that a different choice has been made and that on the contrary - I say it without controversy, but for the sake of historical truth - with the fundamental contribution of Forza Italia we have chosen another method, that is to achieve reforms piece by piece. This implies having a vision of the whole, extending and projecting one's action in the long run, but under no circumstances can it lead to introducing an issue such as the form of government - much larger than a house, Senator Casini - into a debate such as the one we are conducting through one amendment. Mr President, I therefore believe that we need to confirm what has already been decided in the Commission, partly because otherwise we would be faced with an asymmetrical geometry debate, so that some issues have not been discussed in the Commission but are debated directly in this House. This is not a choice against semi-presidentialism, against the fact that we are dealing with the form of government. On the contrary, I believe that dealing with it is absolutely necessary. It is only a serious choice so that we take good care of this issue, in our own place, and so that the effort we have begun to support can have an extension and the determinations that we are taking through the change of bicameralism can be considered on the other sensitive parts of our Constitutional Charter with the necessary deepening. That is why, Mr President, we would obviously be in favour of this debate having its own seat and not being held in a context which would be objectively inconsistent. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u34	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to explain the amendments 21.10 and 21.14 tabled by the Mixed-SEL Group in order to broaden the audience that elects the Head of State. Over the last few days we have tried to explain the reasons for this, which I will repeat again in just a few minutes. First of all, there is an entirely political fact, but it risks having a very great weight on the constitutional reform that we are about to launch. I am referring to the separate debate for which we are dealing on the one hand with constitutional reform and on the other the issue of electoral law (which, moreover, continues, as we are seeing here, once again with separate meetings and not held within the parliamentary classrooms). The fact that we are dealing with these two reforms in parallel, but without crossing them, from our point of view, is likely to pose a huge problem with which we will face up in the years to come. This is one of the fundamental reasons for our radical criticism of the idea of reform that is being defined, which - in our opinion - does not work, is messy, even with regard to the election of the Head of State. Mr President, it is the Head of State, that is to say, the one who, as stated in Article 87 of the Constitution, represents national unity, and therefore is not really a secondary element. Within the constitutional architecture that is being defined, we imagine an electoral law, with which we will confront ourselves in the years to come, which introduces very significant innovations in the Italian order, i.e. barriers and prizes of higher majority than those we have known over the years. In short, there is a certain tendency, and I do not say so, but authoritative constitutionalists. Zagrebelsky himself, this morning, wrote of the tendency to reduce the Chambers to recorders of decisions of the Executive, even at the risk of constitutionalizing the subdiction of legislative power towards the executive power, that is, by introducing into the national order a mechanism whereby a party that simply has the relative majority of seats takes everything, transforms that relative majority into an absolute majority through the majority prizes and even elects the President of the Republic. You will understand well that in this case we are faced with a new fact with which - I have repeated it a thousand times in these days and now I insist for the umpteenth time - we should have faced ourselves with much more serious and in a less messy way, even on the issues just put that concern presidentialism and semi-presidentialism. Historically and still today we are opposed to the direct election of the Head of State, for many reasons that I will not repeat in this House because we have had the opportunity to explain them so many times over the last few years. Mr President, I invite you and of course the whole House to reflect on the fact that at least the presidential or semi-presidentialist system provides for a mechanism of weights and counterweights; for example, it does provide for direct election, but also for strict rules on a subject such as the conflict of interest (to name one). In our country, instead, we risk to carry out the debate a little surreal that leads to a latent presidentialism, which does not foresee the direct election of the Head of State (but which, I repeat, has at least counterweights), but a mechanism by which a party, a single political force, even with a simple relative majority, can dispose of the order as it pleases. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this issue is very serious and refers to a fundamental point, for which we will not vote in favour of constitutional reform (you will vote for it yourself). And do you know what the bottom line is? It is that a constitutional reform mechanism is being built that starts from a radically wrong assumption. This radically wrong assumption is the convenience of today: this is the point on which we disagree. We should have started with a basic assumption that we should have sculpted in this Chamber of the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies when the measure comes to the other branch of Parliament: constitutional rules are made to apply over time; they are made to assert, not just tomorrow morning when, in fact, a given political condition will lead to a given electoral result, but they are made to apply for years, if not for decades. So, as we are discussing issues relating to the state's architecture for the coming decades, we should have imagined a mechanism for the protection of weights and counterweights and, let's say, much more democratic guarantees, but much more serious than what we are doing. From our point of view, this is a major concern. Let us hope that some of today's amendments - I am referring to those, like ours, which refer to the enlargement of the audience of those who elect the Head of State - will be adopted, because we think that this is useful to imagine, not simply a system of greater counterweights, but - also - a political system in which it is still possible for minorities to play a role that, of course, is not that of government (because of course it governs the majority and not the minority), but of control and guarantee. These are essential instruments on which, moreover, the constituent Fathers lingered long when they put their hand to the Italian Constitution, now many decades ago. I understand that the lesson of the constituent Fathers - unfortunately - has been somewhat forgotten during these years and then, let's say, withdrawn from the cylinder simply when we discussed immunity. However, that teaching should be kept in mind even today with great rigour. For many weeks now we have been warning that these points are raised, which concern not the authoritarian turning point, but the elements of the functioning of Italian democracy, the elements of the functioning and guarantee of political minorities and the elements which, in some way, make a democratic process complete. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u37	Mr Gotor (PD). Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 21.8 which proposes to extend the college of major voters who will elect the President of the Republic. It consists of 730 members, including MEPs and new regional senators, and the amendment also proposes to extend it to 73 Italian Members of the European Parliament. As far as I am aware, the amendment has collected more than 90 signatures and has, therefore, a large and qualified institutional and parliamentary dimension; it is a valuable opportunity to enhance the role and autonomy of the Senate during this constitutional reform. Among the signatories there are about sixty colleagues of the Democratic Party; the former President of the Chamber, Senator Pier Ferdinando Casini, who generously agreed to bring together his similar amendment in this; two vice presidents of the Senate; all the group leaders of the majority government present in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; for the opposition, representatives of the Mixed-Italy Group Work in progress. In addition, the amendment received the informal appreciation of so many Members of the European Parliament, who are supporting us at this time, and of many colleagues who, for reasons of understandable political opportunity, have decided not to sign it, but they share the spirit of this initiative. Why so many signatories of so different political forces? Perhaps because the amendment has the merit of addressing a problem, that of the guarantees and the overall balance of the system, for which there is a cross-sensibility between all the political groups, as emerged from the debate in the Commission over the past few months and also from many speeches in this House. Many have stressed the need for an organic approach to institutional reforms, aware that if we intervene on the balance of bicameralism and at the same time on electoral law, it is inevitable that the form of government will also undergo changes, albeit indirect, that we must know how to predict and evaluate in their consequences as a whole. The amendment is motivated by two reasons. The first: the signatories believe that the time has come - just as the Constitutional Council of 1946 identified the representation of future regional legislators as a significant part of the presidential election college - that European Parliamentarians should also be recognised as having the task of contributing, with their experience, to the choice of the President of the Republic, whose constitutional figure is increasingly involved in the evolution of the form of the State in a European sense. It is no coincidence that the most well-known doctrine has defined interparliamentary cooperation as the third life of the European Parliament, tracing in the relationship between it and the national parliaments of the Member States a genuine Euro-national parliamentary system. Nor are there any objections of constitutional consistency to this solution, nor would it be possible for the European Parliament or the European Union, since the institutions of the Union are committed by the Treaties to respect for the constitutional identity of the Member States. Secondly, the main objective of this amendment - and I would like to draw your attention here - is to mitigate the combined effect of a necessary majority rule for the election of the House of Deputies by reducing the number of 215 senators and the elimination of the body of the 58 regional delegates from the audience of the great voters. In fact, according to the text approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the winner of the majority political prize could elect the head of state in a self-sufficient way from the ninth ballot onward, i.e. after only four days of blank voting, by controlling the vote of only 26 regional senators. As you know, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, an agreement had been reached between the rapporteurs and the Government, which envisaged maintaining the 58 major regional voters, that is, three per Region, which, however, jumped for the opposition of Forza Italia. It seems that Forza Italia would also be against this amendment on MEPs because the Democratic Party, according to the last elections, would have a larger number of MEPs. However, it should be borne in mind that if the next Head of State - as is most likely - is still elected with the old rules - probable and desirable - the new rules will enter into force in the next European legislature, after 2019, with balances that can be changed again. As you know, in the Commission, thanks also to the availability of Forza Italia and the sensitivity of the rapporteurs, the Democratic Party has succeeded in having an amendment adopted, of which I was the first signatory, which intervenes on the strengthening of quorums. But this solution is not enough, and it only means admitting that, after four days of voting that has been empty, from the ninth ballot, those who have won the majority prize will be able to elect the Head of State and the guarantee bodies that result in a self-sufficient way, with less than one third of the regional senators. The problem, which today seems abstract or mitigated by the fact that secret voting is in place in the elections of the Presidents of the Republic, could arise in its concreteness in the event of the convergence of two circumstances, which we have a duty to foresee at all. The first circumstance is when the general elections coincide with the end of the seven-year term of the President of the Republic (as was the case in 2006 and 2013). The second is in the event that a new force breaks into the system, winning the majority prize by a great career with an action of break-in that the current mobility of the political vote in Europe and some recent experiences at national and foreign level make a possibility anything but unlikely. This new force, precisely because it is new, could not at the same time have sufficient Members of the European Parliament and regional senators to elect the Head of State alone. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to address my fellow Members. Let us be careful, because this Constitution assigns to the President of the Republic a role of referee and guarantor, perhaps as a reserve engine of the system in circumstances of crisis, but never as head of a political force or a political part. The wisdom of the constituent Fathers has given the Head of State powers to accordion, which can be opened or closed according to the circumstances and which, even in recent times, have proved to be a valuable asset. For these reasons I trust that the Government and the rapporteurs will be able to return to the Chamber and, as was the case with the question of immunity, a debate can be opened on the basis of the relevance of the matter. The Constitution must assume as a supreme guiding value that of institutional prudence and must exclude, even theoretically, solutions that would insert a plebiscytic twist in our system: not authoritarian, but plebiscytic. The concepts must be kept completely separate because they are different, but able to change the balance and quality of democracy in our country. For this reason, I would ask all senators to pay close attention to Amendment 21.8. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Casini and De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u40	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the question of eligibility, in the sense that the remarks made by Mr Maran are certainly relevant if these remarks were to be concluded with respect to those amendments which propose to introduce the subject of presidentialism tout court. However, I should like to point out that in the case of Amendment No 21.4 by Mr Casini, as in the case of the amendment just outlined by Senator Gotor and other amendments, the issue is not presidentialism, but a safeguard clause that can repair the disruptions caused by a reform that inevitably paves the way for the appointment of the President of the Republic as a product of the majority. It is precisely for this reason that the eligibility of these amendments should be defined, otherwise the reform will produce not only virtuous effects, but also contradictions such as to ensure that the whole system does not hold out. I therefore believe that the admissibility of these amendments can be the right path for the House to discuss a matter of substance, which is precisely the protection of the third party of the President of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u43	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have tabled amendments 21.16 and 21.18 for the same reasons as Mr Casini's speech. In comparing my two amendments with President Casini's 21.13, I note that the one he has tabled is more comprehensive and comprehensive, so I declare that I withdraw Amendments 21.16, 21.18 and 22.27 as well. At the same time, I would ask President Casini to do me the courtesy of being able to add my signature to Amendment 21.13. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Casini, do you accept Senator Palma's request? CASINI (PI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u46	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for a moment's attention. I think it is necessary to take into account what we are discussing. I hear about presidentialism and I don't. We are discussing the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, no more or less. Talking about presidentialism instead means dealing with the form of government. Mr President, the 1948 Constitution was based on the centrality of Parliament, which was at the heart of all power in our country. The reform we are approving shifts the institutional centre of gravity on the President-in-Office of the Council and there is no alternative. It is not enough for almost 80 MEPs to rebalance this shift in the power centre over the President-in-Office of the Council. By maintaining the President of the Republic as a guarantee power, as desired by the Constituent in 1948, we must strengthen him in his election and it cannot be enough - I apologise to Senator Gotor - to foresee the participation of 80 MEPs, because they do not affect what will be the philosophy of the new state, of the new architrave that comes to be created with a President of the Council that will have what today Zagrebelsky defines as the executive, that is, a possibility of affecting the institutional and constitutional balances. Then I ask myself a question concerning the direct election of the President of the Republic. I am referring to Senator Casini's amendments 21.13 and 21.12, first signed by Senator Gasparri, which do not affect the form of government, so I do not see what the problem of their eligibility is. It is a method of election that strengthens the power of guarantee of the President of the Republic. According to the current forecast, the President of the Republic, in a system that would be decided and governed by the President of the Council, is elected by an unbalanced parliamentary majority, taking into account the fact that, even with the 80 MEPs, we would have no more or less parliamentary majority than the majority in the country. Then it will be what will determine the election of the President of the Republic, which in this way is no longer a guarantee power. I do not see what the concern is: if it does not affect those who are the powers of government and maintain the characteristics of the President of the Republic as a guarantee, why should there not be a rebalancing, with respect to the choice of the President of the Council, with a President of the Republic chosen by the citizens? This is the only way to rebalance, not the addition of 80 more people, who would have no other role than to respond to the secretariats of the parties that elected them to the European Parliament. In the latter case, we would have no more or less further strengthening of the President-in-Office of the Council. Then I believe that a minimum of thought, with calmness, should lead us all to reason. We must, in view of the point we have reached, introduce into the Constitution those counterweights that the Constituents had managed to identify in the President of the Republic, in the Constitutional Court and in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Otherwise we will have a nice concession from those who will have control of Parliament for the election of the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court. But at least as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, we guarantee the citizens the possibility of an institutional figure, which will also have to verify the laws before the promulgation, which is free from any conditioning. Mr President, at this time I would be opposed to an election of the President of the Republic which would affect the form of government. That's not how it is, and I don't want to be in your shoes. But I think you would have the great merit of acknowledging that, by not affecting the form of government, there is no doubt about the admissibility of the amendments, because it is a form of election of the President of the Republic to guarantee it, in a system that will see a huge power of the President of the Council, the ability to be that element of mediation and moral suasion which it represented in these 70 years of Republic. I believe that we must have the conscience and freedom, each of us, regardless of the disciplines of party and group, to vote freely on this subject, which represents neither more nor less, the rebalancing from the point of view of the guarantees of all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u49	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, Senator Casini spoke in his speech of a problem as big as a house, in quoting presidentialism, an expression also taken up by Senator Zanda. Well, I believe here, ladies and gentlemen, that the only problem as big as a house is the attempt of Senator Zanda to take this issue away from the debate in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , which is one of the alarm bells about this reform. I am referring essentially to the fact that, as the reform is currently constituted, in the election of the President of the Republic the plurality of views which is necessary for this figure, which represents the nation and the unity of the nation, is lacking. I do not want to diminish the role of the majority: it is clear that it must elect the President of the Republic, but it must be an expression of a variety and a plurality of views which, at the moment, with the formula in the reform is reset and which instead is present in the Constitution, thanks to the number of Members expected and the widening of the audience of the great voters with the regional delegates. Well, we can solve this problem at the moment with a number of proposals. Very interesting is that of Senator Casini (who I ask to be able to subscribe to Amendment 21.4), aimed essentially at returning to the popular will precisely to the ninth ballot, which is what would actually trigger the dictatorship of the majority for the election of the President of the Republic, or that of Senator Gotor with amendment 21.8 aimed at further broadening the audience with MEPs. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u52	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, the Grandi Autonomie e Libertà Group will support the first-signed amendment by Senator Gasparri and allow me to support this position with brief and rapid reflections. I will not enter into the purely constitutional question of the balance of powers, but I will enter into the heart of an issue which is certainly an abused concept: popular sovereignty. We have taken on a responsibility, even if it is true that those who have drafted a constitutional reform from fast food are taking it, in which we are moving forward with a majority vote and prevent this House from being able to express itself with the secret vote (as we have seen so far, the only two times that have taken place with a secret vote, the majorities that have a very different dimension have been completely overturned by the obvious vote). We must then decide whether to give the Italian people the opportunity to express themselves with the election in a distinct and distant way from the normal games between the political forces for the formation of the Government, being the President of the Republic not only the notary but also the controller, the guarantor of the perfect observance of the Constitutional Charter or whether to put everything in the cauldron of the political dialectics (living God if it were always a political dialectics), in the game of the do ut des between composition of the Government, Ministers, Undersecretaries and Presidency of the Republic. If we believe, we can refer to this principle, which is the fundamental principle on which the State is founded, which is a convention freely accepted by citizens who are bearers of rights prior to the State itself, a convention that is accepted insofar as everyone feels that he is a creator and participates in the choices that must guide the organization of the State itself, otherwise we will create two external bodies: that of those who have the power to influence the organization and the indication of those who must manage the state power and that of those who indirectly only have to be called to vote in well defined circumstances, in our case (having abolished the elective Senate) in the sole election for the Chamber of Deputies. Let me say that politics is not only the moment when a plan of power is realized: it is a bit like philosophy. They once asked Bertrand Russell to define what philosophy was. He replied that philosophy could be represented with the story of that traveler who, after having lost himself by bicycle in the English countryside, not knowing what the way to Winchester (the city he had to reach) stopped in an isolated house and asked the grocer to point it out to him; The grocer, who was in the back shop, did not hear the question, if he had it repeated several times: in the end, when he heard it, he replied that he did not know what the road was. So, like philosophy, politics is used to ask questions, not to give answers. The question I ask my eminent colleagues here, first of all to Dr. Gromyko, in art Senator Zanda, is what our function is with respect to the people. What are we in here, if not the fruit of the popular will? And why should this popular will not be expressed in a direct and sovereign way by the people to elect the highest office of the Italian State? That is the question I ask, and the legal questions about whether or not this issue is present in the Commission's text are worthless. This is a point of junction: did you want to suppress freedom of expression for the election of senators? Then allow the Italian people to choose the supreme guarantor of this Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u55	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I believe that Amendment 21.13, signed by Senator Casini, is the only one capable of really avoiding the possibility of a Premier choosing the name of the President of the Republic, which would result from the fact that this Premier can count on a faithful and elected majority of the House with a majority prize and the fact that this reform, today under discussion, provides for an abnormal number of Members - 630 - in front of 100 senators. If, as Senator Casini proposes, a qualified majority were not reached in Parliament, I would find it right that all Italian citizens should choose the guarantor at stake. I would like to add that it is not in any way a question of presidentialism, because as you know, Mr President, this is when directly - the United States - or indirectly - France - the President elected by the people is the Head of the Executive: here it is a question of electing the President-in-Office, the President who is able, if anything, to moderate the overpower that certain reforms - these reforms - would hand over to the Premier. That is why I ask Senator Casini to have the opportunity and the burden of signing his amendment, and I hope to be able to vote on it. [[Applause from Senator Minzolini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u56	Senator Casini, do you agree? CASINI (PI). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u59	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are leaving - unfortunately we have to say this - an architecturally perfect Constitution, in which a mechanism for balancing powers, reciprocal controls and the separation of functions and powers ensures that the system responds exactly to the foundations and principles underlying democratic systems. The function of the President of the Republic could also appear secondary in these systems, because it does not actually have real powers of interference, but of great representativeness and guarantee. For years - indeed, for decades - we have snubbed this figure, except then see its importance in times of difficulty. The last features that have marked the history of this country have seen the effectiveness and importance of the guarantee function guaranteed by the Presidency of the Republic, which we must now incarnate into the new framework that will emerge from a series of legislative actions. The first one to be delivered by this House will see a substantial provision of the Senate, which will not affect - if not at all - the election of the President, but first of all will not see the popular participation in the selection of its members. The fact, taken in a sextant way, may not be a negative aspect, but let's see it as a whole. The next stage, which we will also find on our tables, will be to face the electoral law, namely the Italicum, with which even in the other House we will see a direct choice of members by the citizens. The leaders of the parties will instead produce closed and blocked lists, which, according to the election, will produce with a majority prize the new majority of the House, which, in the various subsequent elections of its President, will have the numbers to elect the new President of the Republic. That same majority will be able to elect two thirds of the most important judicial bodies of the constitutional system, so citizens will no longer be called upon to choose any level of government. Pass me the term because it's very strong, but all this knows so much about "lottery": who wins the elections, wins the lottery or a jackpot, so it controls the House, the only one that gives confidence, expresses a government, the government's control bodies and the only guarantee body that should stay out of all the games to ensure and monitor a process that should be democratic. At this point, since we have understood the picture that is emerging, we cannot prevent citizens from electing the only available office, free and guarantor of the whole democratic system in a direct way. This was one of the ten points the League had asked the government for. We now have a series of amendments which provide for direct election, such as that tabled by Senator Gasparri, to a direct election in a sequential phase. Let the election take place after a number of elections with qualified majorities, which cannot be those expressed by the majority prize, or that it is directed, we must give the ball to the citizens. The alternative, ladies and gentlemen, is to replace Article 1 of the Constitution, which in the second paragraph today reads 'Sovereignty belongs to the people', rewriting it as follows: Sovereignty belongs to the leader of the party who is lucky enough to win the next elections. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u62	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, as a good tradition of good parliamentaryism, I believe that the assessment of the admissibility of the various amendments should be reserved for you. Given how our debate is developing, however, I would like to point out that the amending proposals are quite different. The reform of the amendment tabled by Senator Gasparri dates back, as he rightly said, to a legislature in which we were Group colleagues and hoped to achieve the direct election of the Head of State in conjunction with a French electoral reform. The amendment tabled by Senator Casini, on the other hand, seems to me to be much more restrictive, but much more necessary at this stage of our work. What do I mean? The negative privilege of leaving Mr Maran was probably unfair, which, in the name of the incomprehensibility of aspects of the form of government that go back to the form of State, saw the exclusion of its own bill. However, since we have allowed an Assembly of 100 people to participate in the election of the President of the Republic, just as one of 315 was, we must bear in mind that the spirit of Casini's amendment is a spirit of guarantee and so it was formulated by Bozzi, by Tosato and by those who had a position at the intermediate constituent between some presidential impulses of Valiani and Calamandrei and other parliamentary majoritarians. Of course, as a system Casini's amendment probably combines aspects of popular and democratic legitimacy with aspects of neutral power of the Head of State, but we must bear this in mind, precisely because many times we refer to the Constituent (sometimes improperly, because the Constituent must also remember that agenda of the day of Giolitti, voted on the principle, in which it was said that the electoral system would still be proportional, while, with some sloppiness, the Constitutional Court, more than ten years ago, makes considerate and allow a majority system to break the balances of what Caliendo calls the guarantee institutions and that had been thought with the guarantees of proportionality: the Parliament's participation in the election of the Head of State, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court). From this point of view, since we have already allowed the new Senate of 100 to inherit the same electoral legitimacy as that of 315, it would then frankly be absurd not to recognize us at least in Senator Casini's amendment. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u65	Mr Moscardelli (PD). Mr President of the Senate, representatives of the Government, senators and colleagues, the issue of the President of the Republic is fascinating because it is a key element in the weights and counterweights of our constitutional system and therefore in the maintenance of the overall order. However, particularly at this time when the debate focused on the amendment proposed by Senator Casini and which Mr Mineo has decided to support, it seems to me that this type of remedy that is being proposed, i.e. a direct election as a guarantee, is actually incomprehensible and inconsistent precisely with the issue of the guarantee that is being put at the centre. In fact, it is clear that the maximum functionality of the President of the Republic as a guarantee body, as thought by the constituent Fathers, was perfectly combined with the pure proportional system, thus leading to the decision of his election in a condition for the overall sharing of a Parliament in a joint session in integrated composition, with senators, deputies and regional delegates with those numbers, even if this has always led to the expression of a President of the Republic as an expression of the majority (of course very often of great profile, even if not always of the same level). Today, however, with this amendment we are going to introduce the direct election of the President, who is absolutely strident, opposed and inconsistent with the guarantee function. In fact, we could simply find ourselves electing a President who is politically opposed to the majority that won from the ballot box to the general elections. We could surreptitiously introduce a sort of semi-presidency to French, although the President of the French Republic has not only functions of guarantee but also of government. We could, therefore, introduce this dichotomy. You cannot help but glimpse into the eyes of the swindling that we are going to create with a direct election of the President after a few scans gone empty. And we know that, in the face of this kind of possibility, it would be very easy to slip towards the direct election of the President. However, I would like to point out that the same problems we are trying to deal with today are still ahead of us. Since the introduction of the majority system, we have an expression of a majority president, even a small majority. Suffice it to see the case, in 2006, of President Napolitano, who was elected with a political majority reduced to the political elections. If a President should eventually decide to hold a behaviour that is materially contrary to the Constitution, not by formal acts but by conduct that goes against the Constitution, the only system of closure and safeguard is the prosecution, and with directly elected parliamentarians, both with the uninomial colleges Mattarellum, 90% chosen by the secretariats of the parties on safe colleges, or with blocked lists: it is clear that, in this case, we have one of the main points of the problem. On the other hand, if we had Members who had received a direct consent from the citizens and not through blocked lists, this would undoubtedly be a greater guarantee than a President who did not adhere to the constitutional dictation. But to think of solving the problem of a narrowing of the audience with a Senate of 100, in order to guarantee greater value to the function of guarantee body of the President of the Republic, with his direct election, frankly I find it absurd, especially for those who fight against overcoming the perfect bicameralism, because this would attribute who knows what powers to the Executive.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u68	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask Senator Gotor to sign his amendment 21.8. Our Constitution has a wonderful system of weights and counterweights, an almost perfect system of balance between the various democratic realities and the same popular representation. But it has two weaknesses, Mr President: democratic decision and democratic participation. The text we are passing through this House, after the work we have done in the Commission, allows us to respond to this crisis by placing the challenge of decision-making and democratic participation in the heart of legislative power, Parliament, which, modified and reformed, is able to respond with a better democratic decision and a more qualified democratic participation. Presidentialism could be a possible way out of the crisis: another system, another system and, therefore, another response to the crisis. These are two different plants: the first is what we are going through and which responds better to the crisis of Italian society; the second is another response, another model. That is why, Mr President, Amendment 21.8 tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators strengthens the system that we have established and that I think is more to be supported than presidentialism in the various versions proposed here, which has another model of installation than our crisis and does not correspond to the evolution of Italian society.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u69	Senator Gotor, do you accept Senator Lumia's signature on Amendment 21.8? Mr Gotor (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the extensive explanation of the amendments tabled on Articles 21, 22, 24 and 25 has been completed, in the light of which there is no doubt - it has become clear - about the importance of the issues dealt with. However, the Presidency cannot go into the matter, but it must take into account the technical points that have been made. In its opinion on the admissibility of the amendments referred to Articles 21, 22, 24 and 25, which are related and additional, the Presidency drew on the following criteria: firstly, it considers the Commission's decision to combine only a few of the numerous proposals to amend the Constitution of Parliamentary Initiative with the draft law, excluding those specifically addressed by the amendments on the direct election of the Head of State and the form of government; secondly, it considers it necessary to take into account the assessment of inadmissibility already carried out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in direct consequence of the previous decision - precisely - to exclude those issues and related draft laws that could be linked. The Presidency cannot escape the fact that the very title of the text approved by the Constitutional Affairs Commission does not make a general reference to changes to Part II of the Constitution, but limits on time the subject to provisions for overcoming the bicameralism of equality, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the running costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. For these reasons, the Presidency considers, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, that the following amendments should not be considered: 21,2, 21,3, 21,4, 21,5, 21.11, 21.12, 21.13, 22.6, 24.6, 24.7, 24.08, 24.9, 24.10, 24.12, 24.13, 24.0.1, 24.0.2, 24.0.3, 24.0.3, 24.0.4, 24.0.5, 24.0.6, 24.0.7, 24.0.8, 24.0.9, 24.0.11, 24.0.12, 24.0.14, 24.0.16, 24.0.17, 24.0.19, 24.0.20, 24.0.2, 25.1, 25.2, 25.3, 25.4 and 25.10. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u70	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against them. However, Mr President, I feel that I have to discuss the reason for these opinions. I apologise to my fellow Members, but the reading was very fast, I do not have the list that the President has just read and - therefore - I have to understand what are the issues that remain objectively before this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u71	They have already been examined by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u72	FINDING, rapporteur. President Casini's amendments had not been tabled in the Commission, but were tabled in the Chamber, and they contain the principle of election by universal and direct suffrage of the President of the Republic, even in the context of the ballot, and I understand that these too have been declared inadmissible. Therefore, one of the issues on which the rapporteurs would have liked to spread would no longer have reason to be raised. However, I would also like to explain the views of the rapporteurs on Amendment 21.8 tabled by Senator Gotor, which provides for the enlargement of the audience for the election of the President of the Republic to Members of the European Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Gotor for having contributed once again to our debate. As my colleagues will probably remember - I am sure the Members of the Commission remember this - the current text before the House (which provides for qualified majority voting for the election of the President of the Republic until the ninth vote) is the result of an amendment tabled by Senator Gotor in the Commission, which has been discussed a long time in that Chamber and, finally, by the majority of that vote. This is the text that the rapporteurs are submitting to the House today. The further amendment tabled today by Senator Gotor, signed by many colleagues, certainly attempts to respond to the need for enlargement of the audience. The enlargement of the electorate of the President of the Republic does not arise on the basis of a need, as it were, unknown to the Commission and to our debate. On the contrary, as my fellow Members know, many times it has been thought about the need to have a substantial solution to the problem of the disparity in the consistency of the two Chambers which are called upon to elect the President of the Republic in a joint sitting. A number of solutions have been rejected which have also been put forward in the Commission by other amendments, but also in this House, such as the reduction in the number of Members, who have already voted, or that of the increase in the number of regional delegates, who have been rejected by a large number of colleagues who have spoken in the Commission on the reason why the Senate is already representative of the Regions and, therefore, the origin of the completion of the electoral base for the election of the President of the Republic (which, as you know, under the current Constitution, provides for a certain number of representatives per Region) was already acquitted by the fact that - this time - a Senate would participate in the election which is itself representative of the Regions. Therefore, I do not deny that the need exists; on the contrary, I know that it is very common among colleagues in the various political formations. However, I have a duty to express our doubts as to whether it is the Members of the European Parliament who make up the college. This is for a reason that I do not believe we have thought enough about and that we have worked on in-depth. We would be faced with the unilateral nature of a decision that would all be embedded in the constitutional dynamics within our nation state and that would create interference with the agreements between states. In fact, it is agreements between States that have defined the competences and functions of Members of the European Parliament. And they have defined them on the basis of an assessment of the balance between the needs of the different national states that make up the Union. In this sense, a decision extending the powers of Members of the European Parliament could fully be a violation of the Union's Constitutional Treaties. That is why, on the basis of very sensitive arguments, I would ask Senator Gotor and the many colleagues who have signed his amendment, considering it absolutely well founded - and I hope to be satisfied at the next reading in the House of Members - the need they propose, to withdraw amendment 21.8. This is in order to prevent, of course, all internal reasons for the care we have at this stage on the modernisation of our constitutional system from interfering heavily on an agreement system that concerns our country's membership of the European Union and its institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u73	[[Some senators are calling for intervention.]] Colleagues, I would first like to get the opinions, then when we arrive at Amendment No 21.8 we will resume any explanations of vote and possible solutions. I imagine Senator Finocchiaro gave the opinion on behalf of both rapporteurs. FINDING, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u74	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u77	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, because of the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs, which are certainly significant from a regulatory point of view, I would ask you to set the time for submission of sub-amendments. In particular, I refer to Amendments Nos 11,5000 and 38,5000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u78	We set two hours, so the deadline for submission of sub-amendments is set for today's 13.30 hours. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u80	Senator Tosato, we're in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u81	TOSATO (LN-Aut). I would ask you to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to challenge your decision and ask you to review it because, in practice, we have witnessed the rewriting of the Rules of Procedure during this debate, which has been torn a thousand times and which has been summed up in a single article: the President of the Senate does what he thinks is most appropriate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u82	The order of business, excuse me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u83	TOSATO (LN-Aut). That's right. I would ask you, therefore, to review the decision you have just made and to explain why. It is clear that excluding from the debate all the amendments that are linked and linked to the way in which the President of the Republic is elected is an absolutely arbitrary and incomprehensible choice. I would remind you that the election of the President of the Republic is closely linked to the reform under discussion these days. The fact that the members of the Senate will no longer be 315 but will become 100 obviously has a huge implication on the numbers and the audience of the great voters that will lead to the election of the President of the Republic, especially with respect to the two thirds and the various numerical quantifications that will determine the election of the Head of State. Therefore, considering out of the debate those amendments which you have declared inadmissible is yet another abuse by your Presidency of a free debate that must be guaranteed in this House. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to return to your steps, because there have been so many abuses. The vote on those amendments is no stranger to the debate today and these weeks. This is unacceptable. I repeat that we are asking you to take part in the vote on the amendments that have been tabled on this subject, which is very important and closely related to the issues of the reform proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u86	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw my signature from Amendment 21.8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u89	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I simply want to say that, on the basis of my experience and knowledge, I do not see any incompatibility, as mentioned and denounced by President Finocchiaro, between Amendment 21.8 and the Treaties of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u92	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I withdraw my signature from Amendment 21.8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u95	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I welcome the invitation of the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, and withdraw the signature from Amendment 21.8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u98	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I too withdraw my signature from Amendment No 21.8 and call on the first signatory, Senator Gotor, to accept the rapporteur's invitation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, as the number of those who wish to announce the withdrawal of their signature from Amendment 21.8 increases, I invite you to inform the Presidency in writing. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). But say who leaves her instead. Do it first!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u101	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, in fact, I am speaking on another point related to our order of business, namely the time limit for submendation. I also appeal to those who have made the request. The deadline for 1.30 p.m., frankly, is too short, given that we are here to follow the work and vote. So, even materially, there is no time to write them. I propose a one-hour shift, perhaps by setting the deadline for the presentation at 2:30 p.m., so that everyone can write the text of the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u104	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened to your statement of reasons for the inadmissibility of a number of amendments. To me, personally, the matter is a matter of concern from the background. You basically said that you considered these amendments inadmissible because of the decision previously taken in the Commission and, secondly, because of the heading. Now, Mr President, in truth, this abstract point poses a first problem, namely that the Commission's decision would prevail over its decision and over the decision on whether or not the amendments in this House are admissible. The second, Mr President, is a different problem. You are still in the heading, which, as you correctly said, makes no reference to the election of the President of the Republic. But, Mr President, I repeat, I am only concerned about the precedent that your decision can take, obviously for the time when the Senate of the Republic as we know it will continue to live. You basically said that these amendments are not admissible because the election of the President of the Republic is not in the heading. But Mr President, I am so sorry, but it was not in the heading either in the text which was fired by the Commission. Nevertheless, the Commission has dismissed an amendment to the current Article 83 of the Constitution precisely with regard to the way in which the President of the Republic is elected! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would therefore like to understand, Mr President, whether this House is allowed, regardless of the heading, to speak where the Commission has already spoken. Because if that were not possible, we would give the Commission...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u105	Senator Palma, I gave you the floor and I welcomed...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u106	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Why do you have to interrupt me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We were in the process of voting, we must not reopen a debate... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry, you have given me the floor. Does my group have the time to speak? Am I within the limits of time from the Rules of Procedure? Then, please, let me finish my speech, taking the floor at the moment when I pass the period delivered to me by the Rules of Procedure or I exceed the time available to my Group for speeches of this fact! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Palma, I don't want to interrupt you, but you know that on the decision of the President you can intervene to ask to see you again, as Senator Tosato did and I accept the invitation, but there is no appeal... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). For the same reason that you just said, for the exact same reason I am intervening. You said that there was a request from the Senator of the League to be able to review this decision and then I am intervening. I know perfectly well, Mr President, that there is no appeal in Appeal or appeal in Cassation against your decision, but you can change your idea as a result of a debate and as I am intervening on the order of business, allow me to finish my speech! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, Article 83 of the Constitution has been amended in the Commission and a different method of election has been imagined by reference to qualified majorities. So either you allow this House to amend the Commission's text - and I repeat, I am interested not in the 'Article 83' problem, but in the previous problem - or we have another principle: that what can be changed by the Commission regardless of the title of the heading cannot be allowed to change to Parliament, with reference to what has been amended by the Commission, by obstructing the title of the heading. So, as Senator Tosato has already told you, I would urge you, Mr President, to give further thought to what you have decided. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u109	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Gotor if he accepts that I should add my signature to his amendment 21.8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gotor, do you accept Senator Rossi's request? Mr Gotor (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u111	You have the right to do so. I would ask you to speak quickly in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u112	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will also be quicker. The issue proposed by Senator Palma poses a problem that is becoming really important, namely that we are not only addressing a question like constitutional reform but, as I have already mentioned on another occasion, we are creating precedents that will create huge problems for this country in the future. For the decisions you have taken, also on the issue of the article that speaks about the election of the President, I find it absolutely frustrating the position taken, because with regard to an issue of this kind, which poses a problem as big as a house, on which we are going to intervene now, with this reform, you do not care both what Senator Tosato of the League said, and what Senator Palma says. Well, I thought, I thought, and now I will bring an appeal to the European Court on the type of management that has been made of this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u114	You have the floor, but if it is on the order of business. I'm only giving the heads of groups the floor now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u115	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Give it to me as Deputy Parent Company, missing my Parent Company, Mr. President. Often and willingly in this House, we are moving forward in a bold and sometimes even confused manner. At the end of the work we are obliged to make corrections, which are technically called technical coordination: the President announces to the House that there are inconsistencies in the text that need coordination. Now, the Constitution says that the Head of State is elected by secret ballot by two thirds of the assembly and that after the third ballot the absolute majority is sufficient. We are proceeding to an election with an out-of-the-box Senate, with a single Chamber attributing trust and with an ongoing electoral system that would give these majorities to those who win the election. We should then make a technical supercoordination, because, if one of the basic principles of the Constitution is the separation of powers, here we go towards the concentration of powers on one person, with his House, whose majority elects the constitutional control bodies and also the President of the Republic. If you don't admit these corrections, which represent a balance, a balance of powers... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, you're intervening on the merits and not on the order of business. Thank you for your contribution and I invite you to conclude. DIVINE (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, I am talking about the order of business. Not to admit that we are intervening, since we are confusing the current general framework, even on the balance that the Presidency of the Republic has today, would be a mistake that we should consider worthy of technical correction, Mr President. We invite you to review your position. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He expressed a position already abundantly clarified by a member of his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u118	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I am really speaking on the order of business, so that it does not happen again - I am begging you, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure - that your determinations are discussed. When caught, liked or disliked, they must be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u121	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business with regard to Amendment 21.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u122	Excuse me, Senator Susta, this is Amendment 21.1. When we get to 21.8, which has been admitted, you will have the floor. (Senators Cioffi and Biinella ask to speak.) We shall proceed with the votes. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). CANDIANI (LN-Aut). He didn't set the deadline for sub-amendments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to provide the texts of the amendments which have been declared inadmissible. As for the sub-amendments, the deadline is until 14:00, so there is the interval time to be able to work. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 21.2, 21.3, 21.4 and 21.5 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u125	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 21.6 and give the explanatory statement, which also relates to the subsequent Amendment 21.8. Let us start from the fact that we have proposed two hypotheses on the basis of a need: that of the enlargement of the audience. The first hypothesis, contained in amendment 21.6 basically restores the wider participation of the Regions, as is currently the case, in the current Constitution, in the election procedure. In the absence of this solution, which has been rejected, the hypothesis was precisely to extend participation to Members of the European Parliament. The assessments that have been made on this matter do not convince me, because that amendment does not take away, but adds a function to the Members of the European Parliament: would it be a violation, would it be an assignment to a Member of the European Parliament of a place in a Commission established by law in Italy? Where is the violation of the Treaties? This objection does not convince at all. We had therefore signed up and participated in this hypothesis. Given the considerations that have been made in relation to the evaluation of the rapporteurs and the Government about the desirability of going ahead at this stage, the reform process is a process that will see changes in the House, I would withdraw amendment 21.6 with the condition that it becomes an agenda that commits the Government to resolve the issue in the House. The agenda, in essence, would commit the Government to solving the problem of the enlargement of the audience for the election of the Head of State in order to strengthen its role of guarantee, third-party and protection. Even in relation to the government's opinion on this agenda hypothesis, we will decide accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u126	I would ask you to send the text of the agenda. Amendment 21.6 is hereby withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u129	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I support and will vote in favour of Amendment No 21.8 because it seems to me that the Senate is taking on a rather strange role, and I also say this to the rapporteurs, with friendship. They're picking up all the problems, but they're not solving one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It seems to me that way, honestly. We identify the issue of immunity, we discuss it for an hour and then we move on to the House. Now, there is another profile that no longer pertains to the tasks of the Senate, but to the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. When we discussed reducing the number of Members, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the reduction, the majority of this Senate voted to maintain 630 Members. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups.]] This was the first question, if this is not the case then the audience will have to be raised in some way. Today we are discussing the rise of the audience and there are two possible routes. One was the one suggested by Senator Maran, who withdraws his amendments, i.e. he suggests and withdraws, not even the Senate is given the opportunity to speak on either proposal. One way, which I could like even more, was to widen the audience of regional delegates, perhaps also to reflect on the possibility of including mayors, since they are the President of the Republic. Or, there is the way, which has remained the only one in the field, which is to increase the audience with the Italian Members of the European Parliament. I do not think there is any incompatibility, I could say that if the Commission could have worked with order, for example the European Union's political Commission could have examined whether there was compatibility or not, but as you know from the letter I sent you, Mr President, we have not been able to see a number of initial amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani and Bignami.]] Having said that, a new body is not being created here: it is said that when the President of the Republic is elected, elected MEPs in Italy and having Italian citizenship will be able to participate. It is not an organism; it is a function that is exhausted at that moment. After that, I would rather give a solution - and possibly the House, reflecting, could find a different one and give it to us - rather than once again pose a problem, leave it unsolved and hope that the House will also give a solution to this. For these reasons I shall vote in favour of this amendment, because it does not seem to me that the most serious thing is to consider the question of the election of the President of the Republic to be resolved by providing that, at the ninth vote, the majority that won the elections to the Chamber can decide on its own the President of the Republic, who, I recall, appoints a third of the judges of the Constitutional Court and presides over the Supreme Council of the judiciary. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bulgarelli and Stefani]] It is true, as Mr Moscardelli said, that imbalances were also present in this situation; but imbalances are resolved, they are not accentuated, while we are accentuating an imbalance that had occurred. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, GAL and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u132	Mr Gotor (PD). Mr President, I owe a reply to Senator Finocchiaro, of whom I know and recognize the authority and, at the same time, the institutional and political sensitivity with which he has addressed this issue over the last few months. With regard to its arguments, I believe that it would not be possible for the European Parliament and the European Union to object - as Senator Mauro also recalled - because the institutions of the Union are committed by the Treaties to respect for the constitutional identity of the Member States. At this moment we are intervening on a source of constitutional rank and therefore I see the possibility of an impediment and supremacy of European law, because the constitutional legislator has no limits, except those established by the fundamental principles of the Constitution and that is the only thing that should be measured. Finally, there is the possibility of interpreting the new trend, which is all political, to reintegrate relations and relations between European Parliaments and national systems. In a recent book by two constitutionalists like Manzella and Lupo, we are talking about opening a third life in the European Parliament because - look - an excess of sovereignty has been and is the real reason that, in my opinion, has alienated and is driving Europe away from its citizens. There is also, of course, beyond the reasons for the legal support of an amendment, a political crux, and that is what I would like to draw the House's attention to. The political issue we have discussed so many times in the Commission is that if the current reform has a weakness, it is precisely the issue of the guarantees and balances of the whole system: President Quagliariello reminded us yesterday with his usual lucidity. And what better guarantee - these seventy years of republican history teach us - than that coming from a President of the Republic will and guarantor? I believe that we must do everything to keep this function unchanged: I repeat that it would be a serious mistake - and this is the only reason why I am unable to withdraw this amendment - to believe that only the protection and guarantee of the secret vote or the strengthening of quorums are sufficient to contain the possibility of the break-in of a new force in the system, which takes the majority prize, even for one vote, and then with extreme ease - a facility that we have the civil and political duty to make complicated or more complicated - let me take the popular expression - "all the cucuzzaro". With this amendment, in conclusion, there is a technical and practical measure: it spreads chronologically over three different moments - the political, regional and European elections - the necessary consensus so that the guarantees of constitutional balances can be broken. For this reason, I continue to entrust the fate of this amendment to the hands, minds and conscience of all Members and all the senators of this House (and it costs me both to say it and to have to do it): in the choice we will make in a few moments, it will live the ability to further enhance our autonomy as senators in the context of this constitutional reform. I believe that the Government - which we support and strongly support - could also strengthen itself before the public in a choice in favour of guarantees and respect for the Constitution, when we are changing it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u135	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I am speaking on a subject which has been described as particularly sensitive by Senators Chiti and Gotor, but, as a signatory to this amendment, I must say first of all that I am pleased that there is a clear vote on it. To resort to the secrecy of the vote in order to express one's own torments of conscience is however very questionable. I did not blink, Mr President, when you declared my amendment inadmissible, but it is obvious that this could be very questionable, because while there were others proposing direct elections, none of you escapes that mine was something else. It did not provide for presidentialism, but a path entrusted to Parliament, and, after the quorum had not been reached, there would possibly have been a competition open only to the two most voted by Parliament. I obey, however, because the President of the Senate has so many responsibilities and it is right that we do not complicate his life. However, I would like to ask two questions, one to the colleagues of Forza Italia and the other to the Government. Why do I address my colleagues at Forza Italia? Because in this Parliament and in the country I am among those who consider it a positive fact that the President of the Council maintains an institutional relationship with one of the leaders of the opposition, that of Forza Italia, and I am convinced that it is very important that in this Parliament your votes, together with ours, compete to form a new fabric and a new institutional dress. I am not one of those who macerate or consider an injured majesty the conversation between Renzi and Berlusconi, but I place myself exactly at the antipodes. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a question to you publicly: I did not understand why there should be your alleged opposition to an amendment which, even in numerical terms of incidence, does not substantially change the political balance in place, but contributes to the expansion of a large number of voters of the President of the Republic in the presence of a risk. And here I would like to ask Mr Boschi the second question, which is simple and I could also be content with a theoretical answer. But do you realize that there is a risk of serious imbalance in the process of election of the Head of State if the Head of State remains guarantor? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Do you realize that this is not a matter of right, left or center or that it evokes someone or someone else? In the presence of a Head of State who must remain the guarantor of all, the risk that a majority, in addition to what is due to him in historical, political and institutional terms, will take the President of the Republic, transfiguring - and in my opinion, excuse me, even devalued - the role of the President of the Republic, is a real issue. Mr Boschi realised this, as the Commission has realised, that he has done a good job and understood that the objection was serious, otherwise he would not have agreed to change the quorums as they have been changed and to extend them over time, since the problem was not invented by me or Gotor but was real and we all know that there is. I would expect then from the government - which I support 100% (I honestly say this; but common sense cannot be conflicting with our support for the government) - that, at the very least, it would say: We do not agree with this solution but we know that the problem exists and we are committed to solving it when we move to the House. I honestly support this amendment conscientiously, although I do not think it is decisive. It is not decisive, Senator Gotor, we must admit: 73 Members of Parliament do not fundamentally change things; but at least it is an attempt, certainly insufficient but sincere, to put the political question about the need for a guarantor over all of us and over our daily disputes. [[Applause from the PI Group and the Senators Ichino and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u138	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will also vote against this amendment for a reason regarding what we are deciding. I would remind President Casini that, in addition to his amendment 21.13, my amendment 21.12, among the various proposals, provided for the election of the President of the Republic to be entrusted to the people if after three votes Parliament had not reached the prescribed two-thirds majority. Therefore, I have not only tabled classic presidential amendments but also - Mr Finocchiaro, you ignored them in your speech - other amendments, which I had not tabled in the Commission and which provided for a solution such as the one previously outlined. I shall vote against this amendment, Mr President, because I believe that the way in which you admitted or did not accept amendments concerning the electoral audience of the Head of State is arbitrary. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would like to point out to President Finocchiaro that, in presiding over the Commission, he did not remember that this subject was not included in the heading and that he accepted changes to the way in which the Head of State was elected. On the Presidency, let me say this with respect, President Grasso, I had developed different ideas, because I imagined that you, applying Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, would accept these amendments, and I had reason to think so, but, to say it with Senator D'Anna, perhaps the Gromyko method prevails and you are not even Breznev (perhaps because Gromyko did not give orders to Breznev, but to his subordinates). He made a wrong, inappropriate, incorrect choice. In any case, I will vote against this amendment because, if the subject is excluded, then we cannot even vote on the attempt - as I call it - more light than Senator Gotor to enlarge the audience in a certain sense. It has to be restricted. Perhaps the election of the Head of State will take place by invitation. I hope then to be invited and I will also say mine about the next election. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u141	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, I would like to refer to Senator Casini's words. I would like to point out that we are faced with three distinct problems. The first is the possible enlargement of the audience for the election of the Head of State. The second is a problem which is not mentioned, but which also exists: who should be represented at the time when the Head of State is elected. The third problem, raised by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, is the status of a Member of the European Parliament, i.e. if it allows for involvement in an attempt to widen the audience. Once again - and I am sorry if I insist on the point, on which I also take some revenge - the problem of Article 138, namely the opportunity to change the Constitution by breaking up. The real difference between Senator Chiti's approach and ours is not a desire to postpone it all, but in the fact that in our opinion some problems cannot be solved within the matter we are dealing with. In order to be properly addressed they need to intervene on other parts of the Constitution, because otherwise the solutions risk being only illusory or even, if not well calibrated, harmful. [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] I am a supporter of the semi-presidency system, I have always been, and I believe that this system can be a rule of closure. Having said that, however, while realizing the generosity contained in some attempts such as those of my fellow Members Gasparri and Casini, I note that a direct election of the President of the Republic, after the failure of Parliament, poses even more problems than a regulated semi-presidency system. Those who were to be invested in this way would be elected after the failure of Parliament. The imbalance in the "anti-parliamentary" sense could therefore be very strong. That is the point of merit, and not of regulation, which would have led me to have a principle of caution about that solution. Similarly, I see generosity in trying to widen the audience. But I wonder, in conscience, if it really agrees to put our souls in peace through this solution which, according to everyone, as Senator Casini has recognized and probably with honesty my colleague Gotor himself, is insufficient, or it is not better on the contrary to leave the problem open, perhaps remarking it with an agenda and pursuing an organic solution that will affect other parts of the Constitution, and perhaps do so already starting from the next electoral law. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senator Volpi.]] In fact, it is clear that the electoral law will also have a direct impact on this problem and if we do not realize it we could risk not asking for any guarantee regarding representativeness, because perhaps we were content to widen the audience. [[Comments of Senator Bernini]] That is why, Mr President, I have strong doubts as to whether this is a solution. I would then ask the government to recognise that this is an unresolved problem and I would try not to put - as they say - a patch that can be worse than the hole. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u144	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would like to say that I am also speaking on behalf of my colleagues Mr Lanzillotta and Mr Maran. We are aware of the delicate passage that we are experiencing in the reform. So, before I declare the vote on the proposal, I would simply like to make a few comments on the reason why we have signed the amendment in question. I have no claim to refute the reasoning put forward by President Finocchiaro. As a simple legal operator and also as a person who has served as a Member of the European Parliament for several years, I would, however, like to observe the following. In the development of the European Union, we have seen in recent years a progressive transfer of sovereignty, which in about thirty years has seen the European Parliament move from a governing body and political representation to becoming a fully co-legislator with the Council in relation to the matters on which sovereignty has been transferred. This has changed the face of European legislation, and today we have a distinction between regulations and directives: the one, to which we citizens must stick in individual states, are immediately effective in legislation; the other, however, still require Parliament's mediation and transposition within the framework designed by the Council and the European Parliament. In recent years, since 1957, we have seen the extension of the powers of other bodies emanating from the European Union, which find their foundation in the institutions, including the democratic institutions of the European Union. I am thinking, for example, of the Court of Justice, to which citizens can immediately turn for matters on which there has been the transfer of sovereignty and whose judgments are immediately effective. How can we argue that decisions taken, for example by regulations or judgments themselves, which are born of a body that has issued that legislative process, do not have immediate and direct effect on our lives? For this reason, it would be important for Members of the European Parliament to be called, as the regional councillors were called, to elect the President of the Republic, because the democratic legitimacy they have today leads them to contribute to legislation which is immediately effective even at national level. We realize that a reform is also the result of political mediation and that today there are conditions that did not exist years ago, when other attempts at reform failed. That is precisely why we have withdrawn Amendment No 21.6 and have tabled an agenda, which calls on the Government to make a commitment to resolve this issue in the House of Deputies. For this reason, I no longer ask the rapporteurs to find a mediation, but I appeal to the Government to ensure that, at the second reading of the provision in the Chamber of Deputies, it becomes a guarantor of the heartfelt and strong motion within the Senate to widen the electoral audience of the President of the Republic, in order to prevent a single party from somehow electing the Head of State on its own, at the ninth vote or after the ninth vote. These are delicate passages on which we must certainly have the capacity of political mediation, but we must also take care of the problem itself. I therefore believe that it is right - not because we have proposed it, but because it is a way of affirming the principle - to record a problem felt and to ask the Government to assume responsibility so that, in view of the second reading of the measure, the issue relating to the audience of the election of the President of the Republic is taken care of. After the outcome of the response on the agenda, we will consider what to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u147	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I have listened to President Finocchiaro's speech and I note the deepening with which he has outlined critical profiles regarding the election of Members of the European Parliament. I cannot help but note, however, that you yourself have, in any case, fully understood the extent of the comments we are making in this debate. Now, I wonder, regardless of the substance of the matter (there have also been the speeches of Senators Mauro and Maran, opposed to those of Senator Finocchiaro): how does Senator Finocchiaro intend to transpose the demands that are coming from the debate, if she herself in the Commission has not at all modified point (a) of Article 21, which in fact repeals the enlargement of the audience with regional delegates? How do you intend to accept them, if you oppose and reject the many amendments which have been tabled and which are, once again, intended to enlarge this audience? How does the Government intend to accept them, if it continues with this obstructionist approach to all the issues that this House is raising? If this government line continues, we are forced to vote in favour of solutions which are perhaps not optimal but which, however, are in the direction - in fact - of eliminating this democratic vulnus represented by the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, as configured by this reform. Therefore, I am voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u149	Briefly? No, he's got all the time, he's got hours and hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u150	Please, Senator Zanda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u151	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I listened to the debate very carefully and also - I must say - with great regret that it was not possible to decide - as at the beginning of our debate we thought was possible - a different organisation of our work, with a small number of amendments and a discussion limited to the main parts of the reform. If we had done so - if we had succeeded in choosing that route - we would have had many debates such as this morning's debate on Senator Gotor's amendment and the quality of parliamentary work would have been greatly enriched. That's the regret. I have also listened to the views of the Government and those of the rapporteur, whom I naturally respect. I consider the amendment - I try to do it with my own head - and I also take account of the Government's view that I support with a vote of confidence. I also take account of the opinion of the rapporteurs, who have studied this matter in depth, and of what President Finocchiaro has just told the House, who is not only rapporteur but also President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, therefore, has a specific institutional role on this subject. I am talking about this amendment after talking to Senator Gotor over and over again. Senator Gotor is a senator of the Democratic Party Group and, if he will allow me, I can also say a personal friend. We've talked about it many times and, therefore, he knows my thought, as I know his. He tabled this amendment and defended it in this House. I will vote differently from him. I say this and I stress it also to correct Senator D'Anna, who talks about the presence of Gromyko. There is no Gromyko in the Democratic Party and there is no democratic centralism. We are also giving this morning a very, very obvious proof, Senator D'Anna. Mr President, why do I vote against this amendment? First of all, because I have been present and I have also followed the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on a daily basis. I contributed to the decision to vote on the first amendment that Senator Gotor tabled on this same subject. I am talking about the amendment which produced the proposal which, then, the Commission approved and which is now before us. It provides for the election of the President of the Republic by a simple majority after the ninth ballot, because, until then, a very substantial majority is required. We have approved that amendment in the Commission with the same reasons for proposing this new solution today. I have to say, frankly, that I consider those nine scrutins with over-qualified majorities to be much more effective in achieving the objective set by the authors of the amendment, i.e. in order to guarantee the widest possible involvement of the parliamentary groups in the election of the President of the Republic. In the end, of course, a simple majority vote is achieved, but there is also an enlarged audience with 73 elected MEPs with a proportional system. I would like to quote Senator Casini who is voting in favour of this amendment - he has said so now - on the grounds that it is not a decisive amendment and that it does not change things. For this very reason, precisely because it is not decisive and does not change things, frankly I prefer and support Senator Maran's solution. This is a matter of such delicacy that a Senate agenda is well placed, which I hope will find the consent of the rapporteurs and the Government, who will undertake to review the issue in the House in reading the constitutional bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fortunate to have a Constitutional Charter which provides four readings for the revision of the Constitution; four readings in which the texts must be adopted four times in the same formula. I think that this is the greatest guarantee of the quality of our work and I think that today we would do very well to approve the Commission text with the nine qualified votes, knowing that those nine qualified majority votes and the secret vote that the Constitution provides for the election of the President of the Republic are the highest guarantees that we have so far found. It seems to me that increasing the audience with 73 MEPs elected under the proportional system frankly is only a quantitative and not qualitative change of the electoral base for the election of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u153	In disagreement with the Group? IN MAY (PI). Mr President, you ask me a good question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't understand anymore. IN MAY (PI). That's exactly why. As you know, I am totally against this reform. I can only welcome today's faint yearning for a new wind of awakening of conscience, so my explanation of vote is in favour of an amendment which I have also signed. Now determine whether you are in disagreement or in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u156	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Zanda is a lovable person, but if someone were also passionate about the progress of the work and had listened to his speech he would certainly have thought that Zanda obscured the Manzoni Azzeccagarbugli: nothing was understood. We know, colleague Zanda, that you have to do your job, and honestly we recognize that you are doing it well. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Listening to the debate, we understood two clean speeches. Chiti has explained what we are talking about, Gotor says: I keep the amendment standing, because at this point the choice is the lesser evil; not being able to balance the powers - because the ox has escaped - with a system that works, we widen the audience and at least water the possibility of the famous jackpot (along with everyone): majority that elects everything, including the President of the Republic. President Grasso, it will be because our origin is from the mountains of the North, it will be that our population is a bit wooden and we are a little hard to understand, but we really struggle to understand why we now vote on Title II of Part II of the Constitution, Article 83, second paragraph, which determines who will participate in the election of the President of the Republic. We have just heard the President of this House say that, since Title II does not enter the heading of our work, we cannot deal with the amendments relating to the third paragraph of Rule 83, which contains provisions on how the Head of State will be elected, and not who will elect him. Of the two: either Title II does not enter the column, so it becomes clean, or Title II enters, as it serves to save the principle of separation of powers within the text (as I argued before). Therefore, either we cannot even discuss this point or, arbitrarily, all the amendments affecting the way in which the President of the Republic is elected have been dismissed. In this case, starting with President Casini's amendment 21.4 which did not introduce a direct election, but only a different method after a series of elections (exactly as the current Constitution provides), no longer recourse is made to the Assembly but to a ballot involving all citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Divina, please make an explanation of vote on this amendment. We have already exhausted the debate and the debate. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We shall vote in favour of Amendment No 21.8 because it will be the lesser evil. However, let us return to the subject, and ask you, Mr President, to make it clear to us, mountaineers and woodmen, why the second paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution can be discussed while the third paragraph cannot be discussed. We still don't understand this point. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u159	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I too find it difficult to find out whether my position is dissenting or in line with that of the Group. I signed Amendment No 21,8 at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Gotor, and I was convinced of that. I must say, however, that, in the face of an Assembly which continues to hold an assembly with constituent functions, reasoning and willingness to confront must be permanent. Therefore, in the face of the demands of my fellow Senator Quagliariello, I have raised the question whether Mr Gotor's amendment 21.8 solves the problem we are facing (or at least I am dealing with it). This problem, frankly, does not seem to me to be solved in a comprehensive way because the amendment raises the problem of the numbers report, but it does not solve it because, by adding the other audience of the Italian representation to the European Parliament, the numbers would not change. The question is what is the most useful way to deal with the problem and solve it. And I realized, ladies and gentlemen, that the solution is not to announce the problem and add a warm cloth (because that is what this is about). The additional basis for the representation of the European Parliament does not solve the problem. Then, it is better to leave the problem in its crudeness, in its evidence, in its gravity. If the government has ears (Minister Boschi is engaged in a conversation with Senator Verducci), if the government has ears... I wonder though if the government has ears. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, please! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). If the government has ears, I will vote against this amendment, but I do not guarantee my vote on the final solution. Either the government has true ears, or the approval of a constitutional reform that traces our future not for a few months, not for the duration of a government, but for the duration of entire generations, must be meditated in a responsible and complete way. [[Applause from Senators Longo Fausto and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u161	You have the right to do so. If you could stay short enough, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u162	FERRARA Mario (GAL). And no, Mr President, I asked not to have a short time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Doesn't it have a short time? I'll give you two minutes. FERRARA Mario (GAL). If you allow me, also because I haven't spoken for a few days and I promise not to speak anymore, but I believe that the debate that is taking place and the explanations of vote are a little final summary of the work we have done. I insist that I disagree with Senator D'Anna for once because Senator Zanda doesn't look like Gromyko. Among other things, he does not share with Gromyko what he shared with Breznev and Podgornyj: they were all three chemical engineers and of the same course. President Zanda is instead a jurist, which is not me who, alas, have the same defect as Gromyko, Podgornyj and Breznev: I am an engineer. And in order to be able to listen carefully I had to study, study a lot and read some books, even those of Quagliariello. There I have learned a few things that I will try to say, namely that the main reason for the debate is that those who speak and those who have put forward their proposals believe that what we are hesitating about and who have been hesitated by the Commission is an unbalanced text, even if it is unorganized. In fact, in the debate, as in the period from 1945 to 1947, there was a choice to be made, namely whether to proceed on the path of presidentialism or semi-presidency or on that of parliamentary democracy as in modern times is interpreted, namely a parliamentary democracy with Chancellor or strong chancellor. In 1945-1947 there was so much shame in talking about the Westminster model - which was done, as Quagliariello remembers in his books, in 1958 and 1962 in France when the two Constitutions I will talk about shortly - that instead of talking about this model we began to talk, as far as parliamentary democracy is concerned, about the Norwegian model. Both Orlando and Croce, who all studied the Norwegian model, both quoted him and discovered that it was the same thing as the English model, the Westminster model. We could not then talk about the presidential or semi-presidency model, that is to say the French model that did not exist, since the presidential system that they could take for example was only the American one, which, however, had in the figure of the President a danger that was the drift that had already occurred in the previous decades in Europe, both in Germany and in Italy. They then chose the model of parliamentary democracy and discussed whether that parliamentary democracy could become a chancellor, but there were no examples to the world of chancellor other than the English one, the Westminster model. In that concern, they decided not to give the Premier any power. From that system, except for the first ten years, from 1948 to 1958, from the De Gasperi Governments, characterized by stability, with a great transport and labor in the country, but also with a consensus that derived from the post-war situation, it has derived, from 1958 until today, that instability that in the past years, in 2006, in the bicameral Commission of Alema and still today in the speeches we are making, has put the need for change. On this need for change it has been decided in a way that intervenes in a parliamentary type of democracy to chancellorate, which is the one hesitated by the 1st Commission. But what is the flaw? What is the flaw, which is why we then have the Gasparri amendment, the Casini amendment, the Gotor amendment and the Senator Chiti who speaks? The problem is that in every chancellor, the Chancellor has the power to dissolve Parliament, but this is not provided for in this proposal for a constitutional change, and then, surreptitiously, he is given a power that is not to dissolve Parliament, but to constitute it. That is why we are not talking about electoral law, we are not talking about mutualizing a foundation in the Italian Constitution, which is why the English Constitution works, namely Article 38 of the English Constitution that constitutionalizes the electoral law. Another very important issue beyond 38 is 1937, the date of approval of the Irish Constitution, in which, since there is no great tradition of winning-takes-all in Ireland that exists in America and England, they constitutionalized the electoral law. That is why this reform of the Constitution cannot work. And Senator Quagliariello is well aware, who at this point invokes, with respect to the French Constitution of 1958 (he knows it well, because he also wrote it in the documents of the sages), the Constitution of 1962. When the people see that this constitutional change will not work, then it will happen as in France, when, compared to the Premier's statement made by Parliament, there came to an amendment, with direct election and semi-presidentialism (which was in fact introduced in France in 1958, but in 1962). Senator Quagliariello knows that and others know it well. But, instead of playing with truth, they play flowery. And so at this point the amendment, the non-eligibility, the forcing, the outcome of the Commission for a Constitution that cannot work. For this reason, not because I am not convinced that we have to make choices, I will vote on Amendment 21.8 as I am convinced that this Constitution, which I cannot vote on, cannot support. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u165	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of Amendment No 21.8 although it is an amendment which does not solve the structural problem; it does not solve it at all, unfortunately. However, we will vote for it, because at least it has the merit of highlighting a problem which, Mr President, we have been raising for a month. Inside this constitutional reform there is a gigantic problem that you pretend you don't see. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] There is a problem with the fact that we are building a constitutional architecture that will last for the next few decades, in which a party that takes 30% is full of everything. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] It takes an absolute majority of Members, the Head of State, the Constitutional Court; this does not stand. We say this again to the Government: we hope that it will change over the coming months and, if it does not change, the Italian people will decide. We will set up a committee for the no which will report to this country the enormous political error that is being made in this reform. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u168	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, as the author of the amendment, I would like to make a very brief explanation of vote. I am a little uncomfortable, because the speech has taken a political turn, but I would like to make a brief point of law. I, too, agreed with the first hypothesis, namely that of possibly widening the audience of regional voters, but this hypothesis was not chosen. However, it seems to me that the little is better than nothing and I do not understand why politically it tends to argue the opposite. It seems to me to be an amendment which goes at least in the direction of integration between the laws, respecting the constitutional identity of the Member States and not creating systemic problems. The problem - which is why I do not agree with the argument put forward by the rapporteurs - could possibly be a difference of treatment, on the basis of citizenship, between persons elected in the same national electoral college. However, it would not be a problem that would be subject to justice, because we do not know who will appeal. I say this only for the purpose of supplementing the argument and I maintain my vote in favour of this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She asked the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u169	Mr President, such a broad debate and so rich in issues obviously cannot see the rapporteurs and certainly cannot see me silent in the face of the many objections that have come from my fellow Members. I would like to make a very small and very brief premise; I refer to Senator Chiti and Senator Bocchino. I thank everyone for their confidence in my role as rapporteur, and I think I can also speak on behalf of Senator Calderoli. However, we are rapporteurs, not dominating the measure, and the first task of the rapporteurs is to gather the sense of the debate, recording the possible majorities that appear on the different points of the reform and those proposed to the House. That is what a rapporteur must do. If Anna Finocchiaro or Roberto Calderoli were to write their reform, it would probably be quite different from the text under discussion today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are the rapporteurs for the measure, guaranteeing that what is proposed to the House, unless it is denied or rethought by the Assembly, collects what is considered to be the most shared thought, always in the logic that the law is, precisely, transaction. It is the House that dominates this issue. The rapporteurs can and must confine themselves to giving guidance, providing arguments and motivating the reasons for their choices. In this sense, I believe that there is some basis for Senator Gasparri's gracious revelation, which he said: President Finocchiaro didn't answer me. I did not do this solely because Senator Gasparri's amendment, like all the others who alluded, as Senator Gasparri says, exclusively to another way of electing the President of the Republic, had been declared inadmissible. At this point, however, I would like to put the following question to the House, although it is no longer on the agenda and there are no amendments to vote on. In an intact constitutional system, because the form of government is not reviewed, the direct election of the President of the Republic means that this President of the Republic, who is the son of a majority and who has the political weight deriving from a direct investiture, can dissolve the Chambers, presides over the CSM, appoints the judges of the Constitutional Court, is the head of the Armed Forces. I believe that this is to dispel any doubt that we cannot change by using the universal and direct vote the way we elect the President of the Republic without, of course, looking at the need to balance the system. The only attempt that was made in this sense, which was an attempt entirely based on the personality of De Gaulle, as history teaches us, was overwhelmed by the experience of the Fifth Republic. President Chiti, but also Senator Maran, in some way reduced the participation of MEPs in the election of the President of the Republic on two issues. Senator Maran asks why a Member of the European Parliament could not take part in an Italian Commission (I imagine he refers to a committee of government advice or, in any case, to another constitutional body) and President Chiti says that Parliament in common sitting is nevertheless a way in which Parliament meets and is not a body. Why not? Parliament in common sitting is a constitutional body which may also have its own rules but which has up to now adopted the Rules of Procedure of the House, so it is a constitutional body. We would therefore establish that Members of the European Parliament, who do not represent Italian citizens, but represent by treaty the citizens of the European Union, so much so that they may not also be of Italian citizenship, being candidates and elected in Italy, would come to exercise functions in a constitutional body such as Parliament in common sitting. I do not want to go further, it is possible that I am wrong, colleagues (of course Anna Finocchiaro is not wrong, who is not at all an expert on these issues, as I do not think so many are in this House), but of course we have documented ourselves before giving an opinion, as it is the duty of anyone to give an opinion on such a challenging issue. I would just like to point out that according to part of the doctrine - which I do not share, but that is not the point - the agendas for the European Parliament's meetings are also practical and, where participation in the European Parliament's committees and meetings is prevented by the fact that those Members of the European Parliament make up a constitutional body at the time, there would certainly be a profile of interference with the wills of pacts defined in the Treaties and with the Treaties which define the competences, functions and tasks of the Members of the European Parliament. Finally, to reply to one final objection, that of those who claim that no progress has been made, I would like to remind you that the original text of the Government's draft law provided that the modalities of election of the President of the Republic would remain unchanged, therefore the two-thirds majority for the first three ballots and then the absolute majority. Today we have a text before the House - and this was done in the adoption of an amendment by Senator Gotor - which provides that we shall vote by a two-thirds majority for the first four votes, by a three-fifths majority for the remaining four votes and by an absolute majority only by the ninth vote. It is therefore not true that the Commission's evaluation work has been either yielding or giving up on what was proposed by the Government's bill. That this is not enough seems to me to be an assessment that has come from many. In the circumstances given, I believe that the rapporteurs have done well to defend this text. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u170	You asked Minister Boschi to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u171	Mr President, the debate we have been witnessing this morning has brought back a number of issues that we had obviously addressed in the Commission's work too, knowing very well that on this specific issue the starting positions of the groups that are supporting the reform are far away. In the Commission's work, there was an attempt to find a point of convergence which could, on the one hand, also be an improvement on the government's initial proposal, but which would still allow agreement between the various groups, as we have obviously done for the whole constitutional bill. We know that the text is still perfect and can be improved, and the debate in this House this morning has confirmed this and reiterated it, given the various positions expressed. However, I believe that the work carried out in the Commission is, at this point in time, still a balance point and that, if necessary, it could be called into question - perhaps even considering the hypothesis contained in the first-signed amendment by Senator Gotor - in the subsequent passage to the House, but with the need to go further, knowing that there are also concerns about the substance, which were put forward this morning by President Finocchiaro and beyond. Obviously the Government, as far as its competence is concerned, is absolutely willing to return to this topic in the parliamentary process, therefore also in the next phase of examination and discussion in the Chamber, and to identify ways for the election of the President of the Republic to strengthen its role of third party and guarantee. Surely there is therefore an openness and a willingness to do so. I say this also to respond to the solicitation that came from the speeches of Senator Casini and Senator Susta, as well as from the agenda presented by Senator Maran, who can be accepted when he outlines a path (then we will evaluate it when we express its opinion) for a commitment of the Government to review the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, in order to strengthen its role of guarantee.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u174	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, my explanation of vote is very short as a signatory to this amendment 21.8, first signed by Gotor, which I considered to be of common sense. Mr Boschi's assurances and statements lead me to withdraw my support for the amending proposal and of course also for those who signed it. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u176	Do they then take the explanations of vote again? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u177	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I had reserved the right to explain our position in the explanation of vote. In the light of the Government's statements and further explanations from the rapporteur, we will withdraw our signature to the Gotor amendment; I am also speaking on behalf of Senator Lanzillotta and Senator Maran.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u179	You have the floor, but remember that the vote is about to begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u180	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, in this surreal debate, I would like to subscribe to Amendment 21.8 which is not difficult. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gotor, do you accept your subscription? Mr Gotor (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u183	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). In the light of the Minister's statements, the entire Group of the North League supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u184	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.8 tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 21.9. is therefore precluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u187	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we had prepared this amendment precisely on the issues discussed up to now. Although this House is very aware of the serious problem that is being created about the election of the President of the Republic, as you can see now we are always in the perspective that we do not want to reason [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] and we move forward without even trying to introduce small changes which, as palliative, would perhaps have given a clear meaning to the issues raised. Our amendment proposes to extend the audience to regional delegates and it is not worth the objection that President Finocchiaro had already raised about the fact that there is a Senate made up of senators regional advisers. I think ours has something special about... [[Brusio.]] I'm sorry, but I can't talk like that. [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u188	Senator De Petris, it's an explanation of vote yours, so you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u189	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is also a proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then do it, please. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Our amendment also places particular emphasis on gender equality and the representation of minorities, so once again it tries to introduce small changes to enlarge the audience, knowing that the problem lies in this damn reform. The problem that we pose in the reformulation, capturing some accents of the debate, is to add also the mayors of the capitals of the Region: it would therefore be three delegates for each Region and the mayors of the capitals of the Region, that I believe would have all the right to participate in the election of the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u190	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the rewording of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u191	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u192	Mr President, my opinion is also against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u193	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.10 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 21.11, 21.12 and 21.13 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.15, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 21.16 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 21.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 21.18 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the debate on the G21.6 agenda, tabled by Senator Maran, of which I shall read: The Senate commits the Government to resolve the problem of the enlargement of the audience for the election of the Head of State, in order to strengthen its role as a guarantee and third party. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u194	I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u195	Mr President, I apologise, but I must disagree with my colleague, not on the subject of the agenda but on the fact that we are putting forward an agenda at this time. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] Respect for the dignity of this House must be at this absolute point: I could understand one agenda if we were talking about something else, but we are doing the reform of the Constitution and we are committed to doing something in the future and we are not doing it when we can do it; it seems to me to be hallucinating. You see, Mr President, the oxen have already escaped here: when Article 56 of the Constitution did not reduce the number of Members by recreating the balance, the problem did not resolve it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Gotor and Malan]] It has not been possible to do so and I say this by fully recognizing all that President Finocchiaro has said about the role we have played in the Commission, but I also have the need and duty of truth with respect to what we might have wanted to do and we have not been able to do as rapporteurs. If there is an absolute opposition from the Government to reducing the number of Members, it is clear that the rapporteurs cannot go in this direction. (The Senators of the M5S Group applauded Senator Calderoli's address.) VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. We're not at the stadium! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Wait, I'm not done yet. I was saying, if the number of Members is not reduced, it is clear that the audience must be expanded on the other front. The two speakers had thought of bringing regional delegates to 5-6 per Region, after which the veto on this increase came from Forza Italia. But then, either extra-parliamentary agreements come along in relation to the debate, or everything we are doing is absolutely useless. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] On this agenda we write that the Government is committed - I really feel like talking about the rope in the hanged man's house: asking the government that created the problem - or asking the House to review something that we have not been able to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If the House does not touch it, we will no longer have any chance in future steps to put hands on this part, because it will remain completely frozen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Asking the House of Deputies to authorize its own weight in relation to the election of the President of the Republic seems to me like asking the host if the wine is good. That is why I shall not be voting on this agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u196	Mr President, in agreement with President Finocchiaro, I would like to propose to Senator Maran a rewording of his agenda as follows: The Senate commits the Government to identify ways of electing the Head of State to strengthen its role as a guarantee and as a third party. If Senator Maran accepts the reformulation, the opinion is positive from the Government. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). The government doesn't choose the reforms! It's Parliament's doing it! It's your responsibility, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, hold back. Check it out. AIROLA (M5S). Parliament is making reforms! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maran, I'm asking you whether or not you accept the rewording proposed by the government. MARAN (SPI). I accept that, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on the rapporteurs to give their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u197	Mr President, I would like to say that this text is better than the previous one, so I support it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u198	My opinion remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u199	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G21.6 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u202	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask that this agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u203	Senator Malan, having been given the opposite opinion by a rapporteur, we shall still proceed with the vote. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G21.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Maran. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.0.1, tabled by Senator Minzolini, identical to amendment 21.0.2, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 21.0.3, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, up to the words "between myself." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 21.0.3 and Amendment 21.0.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.0.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 22, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u204	I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments tabled. In any case, the opinion on them is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u205	I give my assent to that of Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u206	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u207	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 22.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u208	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u209	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "articles 22." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 22.1 and Amendments 22.2 to 22.5 are therefore excluded. Amendment 22.6 is unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 22.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 22.7 and amendment 22.8. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 22.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 22.9 and amendments 22.10 to 22.13 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.15 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 22.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 22.19 and Amendments 22.20 and 22.21 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 22.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'letter a'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 22.23 and Amendments 22.24 and 22.25 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 22.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, to the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 22.26 and amendment 22.28 are therefore excluded. Amendment 22.27 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.29, tabled by Senators Baptist and Orellana. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u211	The vote is open. I would ask you, therefore, to make a telegraphic statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u212	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). I would ask you to cancel the vote and at least let me declare the vote on the amendment that I signed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall cancel the vote and allow you, Senator Battista, one minute to declare your vote on Amendment 22.29. BATTIST (Misto-ILC). I need even less. Thank you, Mr President. Amendment 22.29 proposes that the term of office of the President of the Republic should no longer be renewable. This is an issue that was also addressed by our Constituent; at the beginning the principle of this amendment was also imposed, but a precedent was created with the re-election of the President of the Republic of Naples. I intend to put to the House the fact that the President of the Republic can carry out a single mandate. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u213	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.29, tabled by Senators Baptist and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.30, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.31 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.32 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 22.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 22.33 and Amendments 22.34 to 22.37 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendments 22.39, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, and 22.40, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u214	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u215	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u216	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 23.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u217	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u218	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "Rules 23 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 23.1 and amendments 23.2 to 23.5. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.6 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words 'dead' or 'dead'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 23.8 and Amendment 23.9. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words 'dead' or 'dead'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 23.10 and amendment 23.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.12 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.13 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 23.13 and Amendments 23.14 and 23.15 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 23.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words " (a) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 23.19 and amendment 23.20 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 23.29 and amendments 23.30 and 23.31 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.32 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.34, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.35, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.0.1, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 24, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u219	I call for the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u220	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u221	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 24.1, which is identical to Amendments Nos 24, 2, 24, 3 and 24.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u222	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u223	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request was supported) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.1 tabled by Senator Campanella by other senators, identical to amendments 24.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 24.3 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, and 24.4 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.6, 24.7, 24.8, 24.9 and 24.10 are unacceptable. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.11, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.12 and 24.13 cannot be proposed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.5 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 24.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 24.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.24, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 24.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.28 and 24.29 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 24.30, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "respective." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 24.30 and amendments 24.31 and 24.32 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.34, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 24.35 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.36, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.37, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments Nos 24,0.1, 24,0.2, 24,0.3, 24,0.4. 24.0.5, 24.0.6, 24.0.7, 24.0.8 and 24.0.0.9 are impossible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.10, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.0.11 and 24.0.12 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.13 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.0.14, 24.0.15, 24.0.16 and 24.0.17 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.18, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.0.19 and 24.0.20 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.21, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 24.0.22 is unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.23, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.24, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 25, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u224	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u225	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u226	Amendments 025.1, 025.2, 025.3 and 025.4 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 25.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u227	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u228	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "Articles 25 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.1 and Amendments 25.2 and 25.3 are therefore excluded. Amendments 25.4, 25.5 and 25.6 are foreclosed by the adoption of Article 1. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.8 is precluded by the adoption of Article 1. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.9 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.10 is not possible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.11 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 25.12 and amendments 25.13 to 25.26 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.27 and Amendment 25.28 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.30, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.31, from Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.31 and Amendment 25.32 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 25.34, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.35, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words 'Parliament'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.35 and Amendment 25.36 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.37, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.39, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.39 and Amendment 25.40 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.41 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially the same as amendment 25.42 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.43, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.43 and Amendment 25.44 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.45, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.46, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.47, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, to the words 'Parliament'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.47 and Amendment 25.48 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.49, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.50, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.51 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.51 and Amendment 25.52 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.53 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 25.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.55, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.55 and Amendment 25.56 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.57, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 25.58, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.59, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.59 and Amendment 25.60 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.61 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.62, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.63, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.63 and Amendment 25.64 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.66, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.67, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, to the words 'Parliament'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.67 and Amendment 25.68 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.69, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.70, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.71, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words 'Parliament'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.71 and Amendment 25.72 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.73, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.74, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.75, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 25.76, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words 'Parliament'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.76 and Amendment 25.77 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.78, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.79, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25.80, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 25.80 and Amendment 25.81 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.82, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 25.83, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.84, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.85, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.85 and Amendments 25.86 to 25.94 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.95, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.96, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.97, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.98, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.99, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25,100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.103, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(c) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.104 and Amendments 25.105 to 25.109 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.110, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.111, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.112, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.113, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.114, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.115, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.116, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.117, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 25.118, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.119, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(d) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 25.119 and Amendments 25.120, 25.121 and 25.122 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.123, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.124, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.125, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.126 is inadmissible as it has no amending scope. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.127, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.128, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.129, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 25.130, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.131, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.132, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.133, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.134 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.135, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.136 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.137, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.138, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, identical to amendments 25.139, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 25.140, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.141, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.142, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words of Parliament. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 25.142 and amendment 25.143 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.144, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.145, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.146, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.147, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.148, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.149, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Time! [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Time is set by the President. It is expected to continue until 1.30 p.m. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] We shall continue with the votes until Rule 26, on which we have been debating. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.150, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.151, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.152.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u229	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u231	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 25.152. We have already dealt with the rights of the parliamentary groups. Beyond the concerns which the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, has raised about the fact that we are in no way in a position to predict what this Senate will be like, which will emerge from this reform that redesigns it, and therefore to determine a priori what the parliamentary groups will be like, it is appropriate to provide that the Rules of Procedure of each House lay down the rights of these parliamentary groups, including the recognition of specific rights to opposition groups and minority groups. After all the speeches we have heard and the remarks that have been made, it seems to me that it is an organic proposal that does not disturb this design, on which we go forward as one man, and that it can be a standard of assurance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u234	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, it is always the House that sets its timetable, and not your lordship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You see, the suspension times set by the President, you appreciate the circumstances. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Very well, since you appreciate the circumstances you have set the deadline for submission of sub-amendments at 2 p.m., if you keep us here in this Chamber, we cannot even have time to sub-empty. It doesn't take long to figure it out!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u235	All right, let's vote on Rule 25 and then I'll suspend the sitting. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Your concession! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.152, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.0.1, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.0.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 26. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.35 a.m. and resumed at 15.07 a.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u238	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, again with regard to the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs, since we had no news of them because we were engaged in the work of the Commission - personally I was in the 14th Commission to approve Community law - we would need time to examine them and present any sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u239	Let's give it another hour. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u240	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn: the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u241	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u242	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26.1, which is identical to Amendments 26.2, 26.3, 26.4 and 26.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u243	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u244	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.1 tabled by Senator Minzolini, identical to Amendments 26.2 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio, 26.3 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other Senators, 26.4 tabled by Senator Campanella and other Senators, and 26.5 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.7 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u247	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, I will only steal a few minutes from the House. 26.0.1 is one of the four amendments I tabled together with Senator Tremonti, which concern the inclusion in the Constitution of so-called clauses respecting European constraints. I would like to remind the House that we are the only European country to have included in the Constitution the decrease in public debt. All other European countries have included in their Constitutions the principle of not increasing public debt; instead, we are the only ones committed to reducing public debt, which is really castrating, is a noose that we have around our necks. I remember, among other things, that the Berlusconi Government prepared the constitutional rule for the maintenance of limits that did not include the fiscal compact, which was then introduced with the Monti Government in 2012. With this amendment and with the other subsequent amendments that we have tabled, we want to support the implementation of this Government's programme. If it is true, as it is true, that the Renzi Government intends to carry out the battle so that investment expenditure does not form part of the calculation of the deficit-GDP ratio and if it is true, as it is true, that we intend to relaunch our economy also through a different relationship with the instruments and bodies of the European Community, it is also true that we must equip the Government with an instrument that will enable it to do so. I therefore call on the House and also the Government - I do not think the Commission can give its own indication on these amendments, but it can return to the House - to consider these as amendments of absolute reasonableness, which have also been checked from a technical point of view, so that they can be approved without violating any of the Treaties and relations with the European Union. We intend to bring Italy back to the same standards of commitment as other European partners. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of this amendment and the following three that I have mentioned, which are based on the same ratio and philosophy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u250	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to add my signature and that of all the Senators of the Lega Nord and Autonomous Group to this amendment, as well as the other two, for the same reasons. This is a political assessment and an important reflection, which I believe is right for the House to carry out, in order to restore a minimum of regularity in relations between our country, the European Union and the other Member States. I remember, in fact, the years of great sacrifices that our fellow citizens, families and businesses have endured in order to manage to maintain that deficit relationship - gross domestic product that we have heard, and all the parameters that have been imposed on us with very heavy maneuvers (unfortunately still in place), and a taxation that we know to be suffocating; with the sacrifices made by families and businesses, our country has managed to have in Europe consideration, but that always clashes with a wall against wall. At this point, since Premier Renzi and the Government intend to make a stronger and more authoritative voice heard in Europe, I believe that with the approval of Amendment 26.0.1 we can give an important political signal that goes in this direction. Among other things, since we are voting on the amendments to insert an additional article after Article 26, I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of Amendment 26.0.4 which we have tabled in relation to Article 97 of the Constitution. It proposes the inclusion of an additional article after Article 97 establishing an important, sacrosanct principle, precisely in the light of the economic and social situation that our country is going through: it is the fact that the relations between financial administration and taxpayers must be based on a principle of cooperation and good faith. It seems almost absurd to have to stress something that should already be in the state of affairs, since it is a basic principle in relations, but in reality this is not the case when we have a government administration and bureaucracy and, above all, taxation that weigh heavily and stifle families and businesses. With these amendments we want to give an important political signal and to express principles that benefit and benefit our businesses and our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u253	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would ask you to subscribe to Amendment 26.0.1 for a very simple reason: we share the efforts that are being made by several parties and also by the Government to ensure greater flexibility. We cannot maintain in the Constitution a further constraint, which is already contained in other parts of the Constitution and more generally concerns the treaties concluded by our country. Our economy is going badly, indeed very badly, and we are in full decline. We need to give a signal of reaction. The most significant signal of reaction that we can give against the recessionary economic policies of the European Union is precisely to free Article 97 of the Constitution from this constraint.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u254	Senator Giovanni Mauro, do you accept the signatures to Amendment 26.0.1? MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.1, tabled by Senator Tremonti and other senators, identical to amendment 26.0.2, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.3, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, identical to amendment 26.0.4, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Minzolini and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 26.0.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 27, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u255	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning on the Corriere della Sera (Corriere della Sera), Carlo Nordio, the magistrate who was best acquainted with the legal aberrations of bribes in his book "Justice" published in 1997 by Guerini, gave his support to a proposal that was in vain made in recent years. I am referring to the election by drawing lots of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is, as one Minister of Justice, Mr Alfano, said, a proposal that cuts off any possible current chain. As is well known, there is virtually no electoral system capable of preventing the three or four major Italian judicial districts from infusing the CSM and consequently managing disciplinary systems and promotions in a clientele way. President Cossiga's ancient polemic against the judiciary, order and not power, does not require re-enactment here. Here we simply say that the Supreme Council of the judiciary is not a third Chamber, it does not express any popular sovereignty, but it is a technical-professional seat of self-government of the judiciary. Whether it is order or power, the judiciary certainly expresses a level of professionalism that does not justify any skepticism about the effects of the draw among its members. If in the face of tens of thousands of actions of responsibility against doctors in 20 years there are only four against the magistrates (data of the "Garantista" this morning), then we certainly do not run the risk that they will be drawn for the CSM magistrates less than excellent. The Italian Socialist Party proposed on the point draft law No 1547, amendments to Article 104. Amendment 27.0.6 achieves the same objective, even if it refers to the ordinary law the subsequent determination of the application modalities of the stated principle. It will also apply to lay members as part of the lists drawn up by Parliament, in accordance with the existing system for aggregated members of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to steal the judiciary from the current drift against which this House has gone on several occasions, this is the absolute surest way. Beyond the constraints of deployment and agreement, I invite you to approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u256	Mr President, Amendment 27.1 proposes to delete the article because I would like to make a comment. It is true that it is said that the National Council of Economics and Labour obviously does not work as it should; but it is also true that we are experiencing a very difficult situation both from the point of view of the economy and from the point of view of work, and I therefore believe that, before we delete a body provided for in the Constitution, we must first of all raise the question of the reasons for its malfunction or lack of effectiveness. Secondly, we must propose to replace this function or this function, if it is considered non-existent, with institutions that perform similar functions. Among other things, the repeal of Article 99 of the Constitution implies that we must refer in any case to all the legislation that the CNEL referred to, and in this regard I wonder if we do not create a whole series of coordination problems that, as we move forward in the discussion of the draft law, seem to be increasingly thick and relevant, as is increasingly highlighted in the current debate. It is a bit in the history of this country that we proceed to the creation of agencies, committees and councils, and then, when we verify the non-functioning, to their suppression, going to create something new and different or reproducing them in the same way: I think it is a typical Italian misconception. Perhaps, however, at a time when we are dealing with a relevant text such as the Constitution, it would be more common sense and more correct to try to get on with the substance, without proceeding in this rapid way. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u257	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u258	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u259	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 27. With regard to Amendment 27.4, we ask the authors to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u260	Amendment 27.4 has already been withdrawn and changed to agenda G27.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u261	FINDING, rapporteur. I am therefore in favour of this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u262	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u263	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 27.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u266	Parent (PD). Mr President, my Group will vote in favour of repealing Article 99 of the Constitution, but I will spend a few minutes talking about the CNEL. The Constitutions assigned the CNEL two essential tasks, in addition of course to the function of legislative initiative: the first was to compose the interests that characterize the dialectic between the different economic and social categories, and the second task was very well explained by the first President of the CNEL, Meuccio Ruini, who said: The CNEL has an intermediate function; it does not reach the decision (...); but its function is not merely a study; it is a preparation; it is like a bridge between two moments of examination and action. The CNEL in recent years has tried to play the constitutional role entrusted to it. I remember only a few of the initiatives and tasks carried out: he managed the national archive of collective labour agreements; he contributed to the identification of quality of life indicators, which have also entered this year's DEF; he carried out an annual report on the labour market, an immigration report and support for territorial pacts. Among the last legislative initiatives I mention two: the one on the budget and the other on gender statistics. But the country's decision-making system over the years has not harnessed this potential. This serious lack, unfortunately structural, does not depend on the type of organization or who governs it, but on a culture and a working method. In Italy - perhaps Senator Mussini mentioned this too - no institutional bodies have been used to identify technical solutions with a scientific basis, above the parties, often depriving Parliament of objective instruments to support legislative development. This way of proceeding has progressively made CNEL lose its role, a role envisaged by the Constituents, making the structure not an opportunity but a cost. Of course, if in more than fifty years we have degraded the CNEL's work and failed to make sense of it, it is clear that we need to find another method. This means going beyond the present organism. Let's make a recommendation to the government. The G27.4 agenda has now been adopted, but with the abolition of the CNEL we will have to find and think of places and moments when we can express the social dialogue that is also the foundation of the European Union, also because Italy must ensure its participation both in the European Economic and Social Committee and in the International Association of Economic and Social Councils.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u269	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u270	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 27.1, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, until the words 'Suppress Article '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 27.1 and amendment 27.2 are therefore excluded. Amendment 27.3 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G27.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.5, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 27.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u273	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to say briefly to my fellow Members that this amendment is necessary, if we do not want to obscure, first, our intelligence and, secondly, our conscience: it allows us to prevent there being strong corporate interference of the currents within the body of self-government of the judiciary. Any other solution...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u274	Senator Buemi, that is not the amendment that deals with that matter. We are at 27.6, his amendment is 27.0.6. He will speak when we arrive at that amendment. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.6 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 27.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u275	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u277	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in declaring the favorable vote of Forza Italia on Article 27, repealing the CNEL as a constitutional body, in the hope that the tasks carried out by CNEL today can be carried out in a more agile and effective way in other contexts, I believe it is also right to recognize to those who have directed and to those who have worked in this body the work carried out in the past years and, in particular, recently, as, for example, the contribution to the formulation of indicators of quality of life, to which a wide reference is made in the document of economy and finance, a series of contributions given, as high advice, in the formulation of many laws and legislative decrees issued by the Government and a series of interventions, in particular in the areas of industrial policy. Also on economic crime, on the integration of immigrants, on a series of works that affect the productive categories there was the positive contribution of CNEL, which, among other things, was also recognized at international level, recognising to the president of CNEL the first effective and now honorary presidency of the body that recognizes CNEL at international level. In this case, we will need to find the appropriate means to have international representation in any case. I repeat the vote in favour of Forza Italia on the abolition, because we must move towards a more agile and more effective approach, but I believe that it is necessary to express gratitude for the work done by those who have engaged in these years.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u280	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to declare my vote, which is against. Following on from what Senator Malan has just said, I do not see the need to delete Article 99, to remove this body from the Constitution, when it is then said that we will still have to recreate something in order to cope with all the activities that the CNEL carried out. Do you praise what the CNEL did and what he has done over the years? So let us review this institution and let it work concretely, because not always, when it comes to simplifying things, quality goes hand in hand with quantity, but often with quantity does not coincide quality. So let's get him to work and, even if he works less, let's get him to work well, let's reorganise guidelines for which this body, constitutionally envisaged, continues to exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u281	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u282	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u283	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I assume that my Group will vote in favour of Rule 27, but there are still doubts. Article 99 of the Constitution consists of three paragraphs; there is no doubt that, having already decided on the part of the legislative initiative, there is no question about the repeal of the third paragraph, namely that the CNEL will no longer have the power of legislative initiative. Nor are there any problems with paragraph 2, as the Government or the Chambers can decide by what type of technical and economic advice they can be assisted. As for paragraph 1, we can also write that the CNEL is abolished, but this does not have any effect: the structure and the palace remain, the staff remains such and what. Therefore, rules will be needed to determine what that staff will do, where the sector will end up, what the structure will do. On two points there is no objection; on the contrary, we have long thought that organs that have manifested inability and inefficiency, and that in any case have proved inadequate to the task for which they had been thought, surely can be set aside. However, it would require a reference to a rule that would determine exactly what professionalism and experience will do. I am not referring to the elected, who will no longer be expected, but to the whole apparatus of the CNEL. To conclude, there will be no more election, we will no longer have economic categories participating in that body. Fedeli, Santini and the others who have subscribed to Amendments 27.3 and 27.4 should also have maintained this point, because we cannot say that ours is a system with wide and widespread participation, after which we no longer question the economic categories, which we are interested only when there is to be offset by increasing taxation. If they count for something in this system, they must also have their own political weight, which in the Constitution must be somehow guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u284	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.1, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 27.0.02.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u285	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u287	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I wanted to speak on Amendment No 27.0.1 and I voted against it. I am pleased that it has already been rejected, because the Court of Auditors should not be weakened, as the amendment calls for, but should be strengthened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.2, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.3, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27.0.4 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to amendment 27.0.5, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 27.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u288	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u290	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I apologise to my colleagues first, but I would like them to be tolerant at least as much as they are tolerant to the government and its mistakes. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Those who want to lie to their own intelligence may also do without this amendment, but it is clear that if we want to ensure that the bad results that have been achieved in the exercise of this rule of election of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are overcome, we must introduce elements that actually correct it. And it does not seem to me that there is any other element that can correct the current presence of some members of the judiciary within the body of self-government except the draw. You will say that the draw basically does not select. But, in the face of magistrates who judge our behavior and therefore should all be of the highest standard, we cannot differentiate from each other, except for political reasons. And since politics must not enter into the management of the self-government body, I think a healthy draw is effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u293	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I see that these additional amendments refer in particular to Article 104, which is part of Title IV of the Constitution. We said that only a few aspects were covered in the column. I therefore wonder whether you cannot express your views on the admissibility of these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u294	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u296	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we support Mr Buemi's position. We would like to say that even in the drafting of the Lega's amendment, at the first signature of Senator Bisinella, on 27.0.3, the composition was not substantially altered or altered. The first President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Attorney General of the Republic remain at the same Court; on the other hand, he has two thirds of parliamentary responsibility. Until now we know that two thirds of them are expressed by Parliament in a joint sitting. But there will be no more Parliament in common sitting; it will probably be the only House that will choose these non-togated members (the part of the togati belongs to the section of ordinary magistrates). To say, however, that two thirds of the political component will be expressed by the House and a third will be expressed by what will be the Senate to us seemed a reasonable thing, unless we anticipate the common functions of the new Senate of the Republic with the Chamber of Deputies. Having the perception that there will no longer be any representative bodies of the whole Parliament, it is good to say that the maximum guarantee body, which would always risk being the expression of a majority, can be expressed for at least two thirds by that majority and one third by a more varied composition that will be that of the new Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u297	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u299	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise for a very brief explanation of vote which I feel obliged to make on Amendment 27.0.6 concerning the way in which the members of the MSC are elected, which, paradoxically, is entrusted to the case, could probably solve an irresolvable issue, the gordian node that is the basis of so many inefficiencies and degenerations of our justice system. There is yet another process of reform of justice, which concerns the civil process and the civil liability of judges. I do not know if we will get to that point, because every time we talk about this issue in this country, hell usually breaks loose, but I know for sure that if there is a simple and linear way to eliminate one of the most dramatic vulnus of the situation of justice in Italy it is precisely this. Having signed Senator Buemi's own-initiative bill a few months ago, I therefore voted in favour of this amendment today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u302	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I cannot get involved in the vote on these amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have not yet put them to the vote. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Can I tell you why? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can predict your objection. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Since I very much appreciated your explanatory statement, or rather I have adapted to your explanatory statement regarding the inadmissibility of amendments concerning the President of the Republic, I wonder if, for the same explanatory statement, these amendments are admissible or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u303	The Presidency, like the amendments relating to the direct election of the Head of State, has made it possible to explain the amendments which, for the same reasons, will not be voted on because they are inadmissible, precisely because they relate to another subject. It seemed to me right, however, that the reasons could be well known by this House. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have, however, voted on Amendment 27.0.2, tabled by Senator Barani, which concerned the guilt of the magistrates. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He is right, in fact he escaped and we voted for him. Once again, as they say, I admit the charge and ask for clemency. Amendments 27.0.6, 27.0.7, 27.0.8, 27.0.9, 27.0.10, 27.0.11, 27.0.12, 27.0.13 and 27.0.14 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 28, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u304	Invitation to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against all the amendments referred to in Article 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u305	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u308	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u309	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.1, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Milo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 28.2 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 28.3 tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.4 tabled by Senators Compagnone and D'Anna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.5, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.6 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.7 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.8 which is essentially the same as Amendment 28.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u310	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u311	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u312	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Even less so, Mr. President. We have stubbornly tabled these two amendments, which are essentially identical, because we have never understood the rewriting of Article 114 of the Constitution which, following the intervention of the reform of Title V, reads: The Republic consists of the Municipalities, Provinces, Metropolitan Cities, Regions and State. According to the text of this article, it is as if the State were, not already the whole of the Regions, the Municipalities, the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities, but a part, like a Region or a Municipality. I think, Mr President, that perhaps it would be appropriate to correct this article in a solemn way, restoring the fact that the Republic is part of Municipalities, Metropolitan Cities and Regions, because these constitute the whole of the State, which is not a small part like the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u313	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 28.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 28.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.10 tabled by Senator Maran and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.11 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.12 tabled by Senators Bruni and Longo Fausto Guiherme. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I note that we will now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.14 first, because it is wider, and then on 28.13, in accordance with a rule of the Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u314	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u315	You have the right to do so for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u316	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, you must allow us to take stock of the situation. If we also drop Amendment 28.14, we are virtually voting on Article 28, which essentially removes the Provinces definitively from the constitutional bodies which have been envisaged as territorial. First of all, thanks to the distinguished senator for life President Monti the mess created on the Provinces is immense: with a first measure Monti, in fact, had been cancelled, then they were recovered, but commissioners, later they were kept up, but elected only indirectly. In short, rivers of rules have been squandered on the Provinces, which have made this issue increasingly chaotic. We need to understand how the hierarchy of entities will be articulated, or in any case the whole of the entities that form the Republic (State, Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, metropolitan entities). By deleting the Provinces, we have started a very chaotic path, with the provision of Article 10, which provides what the Regions will be, or rather, what their competences will be, if they will be legislative, and in what sphere they will be able to act. From the original text of the Government, the Regions disappeared as bodies with normative competences, but remained as essentially administrative bodies. If we delete the Provinces, they remain the Municipalities, which are essentially administrative bodies, but we no longer have a dialectic and a distribution of powers between the State and the Provinces. I could say: What do I care? I come from an autonomous Province, with a guaranteed Statute, which is constitutional law, and the competences of the special autonomous and autonomous Provinces will not touch each other, but that is not the point. What happens to the Regions? We have put aside the problem, but today we are going to cancel the Provinces and we do not know what the Regions will do, if they will be substantially maxiprovinces without power, because the Government has recalled to itself all the competences of a competing nature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Divine Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). You understand, Mr President, that we are not talking about goat wool. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it. DIVINE (LN-Aut). This way of proceeding complicates things to the point that, if we now decide to approve this Article 28, then we will have to follow the orders of stables because the Government will point the feet, establishing what the new Regions or the State-Regions relations will be, with the related matters of competence, and we will not recover anymore. It is a great confusion, this, both in operating and in the overall framework that will emerge.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u317	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.14, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.13 tabled by Senators Compagnone and Longo Eva. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u320	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that this is one of the points where we risk creating a real mess, namely the issue of the Provinces, which was dealt with before the constitutional reform. When I vote in favour of this amendment, I would like to point out that the measures taken from the legislative point of view make the situation even more entangled. The miracle has been done: the whole bureaucratic apparatus remains and democracy is the only one to be penalized. If we also put this mess in the Constitution, calling into question the participation of citizens also in the apical offices - in this sense it seems to me that in some of the most complex metropolitan areas the risk of packing the situation is being determined - these fundamental and neurological areas for the development and life of the country will be put in a situation from which they will hardly be able to get out. In this sense, the vote in favour of amendment 28.15 is to open up a question which, on the other hand, if it is put in place to this approximation, risks creating a major problem for all the functions of the State. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u323	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to declare my vote in favour of Senator Malan's amendment (and therefore, for the timing, my speech is dissenting). I take this amendment as a starting point for making two statements. A few months ago we voted for a reform according to which we have the metropolitan cities and, in areas where there is no metropolitan city, we have the provinces. Is it serious to go and vote on a constitutional reform without saying what will be done in those areas? In October the Provinces will be elected, albeit indirectly, in those areas. Even in the metropolitan cities we have removed the right to vote for citizens, and that is why I am voting in favour of Amendment 28.15. However, I would like to understand from the government and the speakers what their intentions are in relation to the Provinces that are not metropolitan cities and that in October we will go to elect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u324	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u326	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I rise to declare my vote against Amendment 28.15 and in favour of Amendment 28.16. In my opinion, in Amendment 28.15 it cannot be said that the top positions of these bodies are elected by all voters resident in the territory, because, as far as I know, they can vote for the mayor and especially for the Region even those who do not reside in that territory but are registered in the Italian register of residents abroad who can vote for the regional elections. That is my perplexity and I shall vote against it. On the other hand, I am in favour of the second amendment, Mr Malan, because, although it provides for a similar procedure, it expresses a more open hypothesis. Finally, I would like to make a small correction to what Senator Caliendo has said. The Provinces will not vote in October, because already Sunday, October 28 the mayors of some Italian Provinces meet to vote at second level.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u328	You're free for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u329	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Too good: let's make it a minute and a half. Mr President, I believe that this issue shows how far too superficially we have gone to legislate on the Province issue and how, once again, the question of the direct or indirect election of popular representatives in the institutions arises. It is clear that the moment we talk about the institution, the closer we get to the territory, the more pressing it is that citizens cannot choose their representatives. The specific case was raised by Senator Caliendo and then mentioned again by Senator Orellana, but I think other interventions on this would not hurt. There has been a very important institutional breach. The greatest point of credibility is in the local authorities, and the relationship between the citizens and the elected who must represent them in the administration has been broken: we are not talking about politics, which we should do here, but about the administration, the municipality and even more about the Province. It breaks that relationship necessary to build and ensure the existence of a structure that we have always happily called civil relations. I believe that, with regard to this amendment, we can only be in favour of it and I would like to add my signature to it, thereby supporting its importance, namely the direct election of citizens' representatives in provincial administrations. You want to call them metropolitan cities? Let's call them metropolitan cities, call them whatever you want, but there must be direct election.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u330	Senator Malan, I'm asking you to accept the signing of Senator Candiani on your amendment. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.15 tabled by Senators Malan and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u331	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u333	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Malan to accept my signature to his amendment, for which I thank him, because it brings us back to a very simple concept: that of democracy and the primacy of citizens over the state in all its articulation and organisation. Mr President, when the smoke thrown on the eyes by these fake reforms has settled and vanished, the Italians will not forgive this policy of having dealt only with themselves talking about Senate reform, after that of the Provinces and then of the electoral law, concluding a path of total alienation from the real needs and needs of the citizens, with the abandonment of the land of the economy. This amendment brings us back to a simple reality: the bond that all representatives have with the citizens of this country, in respecting and honoring their need. Then, as has already happened for the Provinces, which we have not cut at all, it will also happen for the Senate where nothing will be cut. Only the will and freedom of citizens will be cut.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u334	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.16 tabled by Senators Malan and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u335	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u336	You have the floor for one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u337	CRIMI (M5S). President, we never intervene. We've run out of time at our disposal, but there are those who have passed it. Let's make it three minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can intervene for two minutes. CRIMI (M5S). I would like to reiterate the fact that we do not participate in the vote on this disaster in the Constitution. However, I want to take advantage of your presence to draw your attention to a law, No. 439 of 1989. We are talking about the Charter of Local Self-Governments, the European Charter of Local Self-Governments, which has also been ratified by the Italian State. I'll read you two of his articles to make you understand what we're violating. Article 2 says: "The principle of local autonomy must be recognised by domestic legislation, and, as far as possible, by the Constitution" and so far we are, and then continues: "Local autonomy means the right and effective capacity for local communities to regulate and administer under the law, under their responsibility, and for the benefit of the people, an important part of public affairs." But now we come to the most important point. Article 3, paragraph 2, states: "This right is exercised by Councils and Assemblies consisting of members elected by free, secret, equal, direct and universal suffrage, able to have executive bodies responsible for them. This is the European Charter of Local Self-Government which the Italian State has signed. Therefore, I repeat Provinces and metropolitan cities are local self-governments which should be made up of elected members by free, secret, equal, direct and universal suffrage. We are violating the treaties that you yourself have signed. I repeat: Law No. 439 of 1989, just to refresh your memory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u338	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u339	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u340	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will use the part of time that I have not used before to underline the importance of what Senator Crimi has just mentioned. Let us face ourselves: we cannot boast of belonging to the European Union when it suits us and when, on the contrary, it is not convenient to neglect even fundamental principles such as universal suffrage. Faced with this, I ask for consistency: today Senator Crimes did not respond to the voices of the Government or the authoritative voices of other majority members, but smiles, half faces and insuffering. What Senator Crimes has pointed out in relation to universal suffrage is absolutely true. In this House, right above the Presidency stand, it says: On 2 June 1946 by popular suffrage as a garrison of public freedoms Tell me where that people's suffrage that is written in this House is going to end. You're trampling him! [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u341	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.0.1, tabled by Senators D'Anna and Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 29, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u342	I would ask - if possible - the attention of the rapporteurs, representatives of the Government, as well as your colleagues and yours, Mr President, because I believe we are entering the heart of Title V of Part II of the Constitution with the articles that are to come. This is a very important issue on which Parliament has already spoken in 2001 and on which more or less all observers believe there are limits that need to be corrected. The debate is about how these must be corrected. I recall that it was not possible to hold a debate on these articles in the Commission, because at that time Senator Calderoli had had health problems, and so the rapporteur asked all of us who were interested in debating these issues to withdraw the amendments and postpone their presentation and debate in this House. I believe that Title V should not become the Cinderella of this reform and, therefore, deserves, like all other topics, a broad deepening as it has been carried out on other issues. The second reason I am speaking is that on that occasion, since some of us had only listed the issues on which it would have been useful to discuss, the government representative informed us that there would be a willingness on the part of the Commission on certain issues where the relevant amendments had been reworded by the Government. Since we have not yet understood what issues the Government is prepared to consider some amendments, which may be reworded, I wonder if it is possible to start a discussion and have a response from the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u343	Mr President, I am speaking on this subject and, in particular, on Amendment 29.25, which is moving in the same area as Senator Dirindin mentioned earlier. Basically, this is Article 116, paragraph 3 of the Constitution, which has been restored positively in the Commission's text and concerns the possibility of differential autonomy of the regions on certain subjects. Amendment 29.25 takes note of the fact that Article 117, as amended, essentially deletes the concurrent legislation (this is a positive fact), but calls for an increase in the number of subjects referred to in the third paragraph of Article 116 above; in fact, at that time there were few subjects, plus all the concurrent legislation, while now there will be a very limited number of subjects. So there is the proposal to include in the scheme of the new Article 29, or in the new Article 116, paragraph 3, a larger number of subjects taking care to eliminate those such as infrastructure and energy networks that could be the subject of misunderstanding. Secondly, it is also clarified that this practice of differentiated autonomy of the regions presupposes two requirements: balance of budget, i.e. respect for standard costs, demonstrating that it is a virtuous, responsible and non-spending autonomy and respect for the essential levels of performance. I would also ask the rapporteurs if it would be possible to open a substantive debate. I am available to a rewording of the text that I propose because it is a delicate subject that insists on a topic that has a great importance in particular for the Regions like Veneto that are in the condition of bordering with Regions under special statute. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u344	Mr President, I am speaking on the whole of Article 29, which deals with a subject which is of particular concern to us: we believe that in the last two governments the political action which in fact wants to determine the death of local self-governments is now well established. Those of us who have, therefore, for a long time also managed judicially in the local authorities, from the municipalities to the provinces, are embarrassed when he sees this type of attitude. As far as I am concerned, I am particularly concerned about Amendment 29.19, which seeks to identify the very particular parts of our territory. I am referring to the Provinces that have shone in these years certainly for having managed their territory judicially and with criterion. It is the results that speak and it is very embarrassing and mortifying to feel that the evil of all evils in fact comes from the malfunctioning of the Provinces. It will not be so, it will not be so, and we will see it shortly, because at the moment, Mr President, we will see what is going on in administrative order within the Municipalities in order to create those pseudo-coalitions and political alchemies that will lead to the vote of the new President of the Province, which will in fact be determined by the will of the individual administrators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u345	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u346	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I'll be out in 30 seconds. What we are asking for with this amendment is, also in order to give meaning to the so-called "Delrio law" that in some respects we find a little' crippled, the recognition in our country of territories, defined as entities of vast area, which have territorial peculiarities and can be identified in territories entirely mountainous and bordering with foreign states. We believe that these territories that have great landscape-environmental values and proven administrative qualities must be safeguarded because with the will put in place they will suffer. So these amendments... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u347	It took more than a minute to conclude. I invite you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u348	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, but I have never spoken so far, because I had to do so in order to present these very amendments. The will we want to express is that these territories, the flagship on the administrative side not only, must be protected and valued from our point of view, and with the amendments that we have tabled we propose precisely this objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u349	Mr President, I am speaking to make a contribution, since I have tabled several amendments on this point. The speakers are not sensitive because they cannot understand and do not have the DNA of a reformist like that of myself. On the other hand - Mendel and Darwin teach - nothing can be done. Politically, you have or do not have qualities. The problem is macro-regions. We can no longer have Regions with 10 million inhabitants and others with 300,000 inhabitants. President Renzi told us the other day, talking to Governor Caldoro, who agreed on the macro-regions, and that it is time to standardize the Regions. Liguria and Piedmont are the same Region; the Triveneto is only one Region. There is a need to eliminate all this plethora of regional councils and attributions from small states to very small regions. With the macro-regions provided for in my amendments, there is a real structural reform. On the other hand, it is thought that Mr Buemi, who is said to be a socialist, voted against the civil liability of the magistrates, provided for in an amendment signed by me to Article 27, and that is all to be said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u350	Please don't do anything personal. Talk to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u351	Barani (GAL). Excuse me, ma'am. That is to say that it would have been enough to vote on my two amendments to have GDP at more than 1.8 today, because if it is true that justice gives us two points of GDP less, civil liability and the elimination of mandatory prosecution would have led us to more than 1.8, while instead we are less than 0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u352	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u353	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u354	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, I understand that we are all tired, but perhaps I have not explained myself well. I was asking that a general discussion should begin on Title V and on the articles to be discussed and not on the presentation of individual articles. In particular, I asked the Government, who had said at the time that a rewording of certain aspects presented by many of us would be accepted, if it were possible to have an answer in this direction because it would save the House some work. Then I reserve the right to speak on Rule 29 when you, Mr President, give me the floor. But I can do it now, if you think so. I would simply like to point out that there has never been a debate in the Commission on Title V.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u355	I give you the floor on Rule 29, since we have come to the subject. I would like the speakers to be able to complete their comments, bearing in mind other articles on the same subject. In this sense, it can intervene both on Article 29 and on the subsequent ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u356	I would like to start with Article 29, and I would like to refer to Article 30 later. On Rule 29, I would like to link myself to Mr Santini's analysis of the amendment he proposes to Article 116, which provides for the possibility that some regions may be given additional powers than those envisaged for all others. The text approved in the Commission differs from the text currently in force on one aspect, as my colleague, Mr Santini has already pointed out: it is expected that in order to be able to confer more legislative powers, a particular procedure is needed and certain requirements, such as Article 119 of the Constitution, are met. The only condition of merit that places the Region in a position of balance between revenue and expenditure is. I personally consider this to be an extremely dangerous requirement. That is why, with amendment 29.30, signed by other colleagues in the Health Commission, we call for this criterion to be repealed, for a very simple reason; I do not want to waste the time of this House; I understand that we are all in great difficulty after such a long marathon, but it is not conceivable that the allocation of additional powers to the regions, as well as the procedures set out in the article, should be made conditional on the fact that they have a balanced budget. Here too, I am expressing myself in a non-technical way, but understandable to all those who know what is happening in territorial realities. The balanced budget can be obtained by avoiding offering the services that the Regions or municipalities are required to provide to citizens. It has already happened in recent years and those with experience in the health sector know very well that in many cases the budgetary balance has been achieved not by improving the efficiency of the functioning of the system, but simply by reducing the services guaranteed to citizens. Mr Santini rightly added that clarification, namely that the budgets are in balance, but that the essential levels of all benefits relating to civil and social rights are also guaranteed. If this clarification were accepted, it would, in my view, be sufficient. Otherwise, if your amendment were not accepted with that further clarification, I would retain the amendment that provides for the abolition of that aspect. I am speaking on Article 117 of the Constitution. Unfortunately, we have reached the end of this long marathon, but Title V is one of the most complicated and delicate parts and above all - I say this to all of us, to me first - it is perhaps one of the parts that citizens understand better than others, because it concerns the ways in which subnational authorities provide services to citizens, competences, resources available and responsibilities. I wouldn't want us to pay less attention to Title V when we're tired. I would like to make a few comments on some of the amendments which have also been tabled by others for some of them. I refer in particular to Amendments Nos 30,46 and 30,167 for Article 117. I begin with Amendment No 30.46, which I think is the most important. In this case two amendments are proposed: the simplest to illustrate is the one concerning the inclusion of social policies within policies, the general framework of which must be reserved exclusively for the State. We know, in fact, that in the different areas of welfare, social policies are the most unequal between the Municipalities and between the Regions of this country and lack an overall framework, to which everyone must adhere. I do not go any further into this matter (maybe someone can do it better than me later), but it is important and I ask the Government if it is willing to accept this aspect. I know very well that regional administrations do not want to lose their powers in this area but we respond to citizens and not to regional administrations and citizens want services to be guaranteed throughout Italy and not only in regions that are sensitive to this problem. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Gatti]] The second aspect of amendment 30.46 concerns the configuration of the type of rules which remain the exclusive competence of the State. In the current wording of the Constitution it is written "General Rules" as amended during the discussion in the Commission in "General and common provisions." I am not a jurist, but all the lawyers, including those who make their important contribution in this Parliament, have pointed out that there are two cases, that we know what they mean and that we can think of overcoming the uncertainties, confusion and overlap currently present in the field of competing legislation. The two are the general rules and the basic principles. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I understand why this has been done, but unfortunately a third case has been introduced in the Commission, concerning general and common provisions. We do not know in detail what this case means, so we are overcoming the competing matter, with regard to which we had uncertainties in the application that created, among other things, a certain type of litigation, overlaps and discretionary interpretations, not making clarity but creating a new problem, to introduce general and common provisions that will require interpretative interventions and will risk in any case need of further interventions, probably also of the Constitutional Court, therefore we do not solve the problem for which the current Title V has been criticized and against which we are called to intervene. I therefore call for this matter to be reviewed very carefully, because one problem cannot be solved by proposing another, which creates uncertainty and overlap. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u357	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u358	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u359	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, the first problem we face with this article, on which I have tabled Amendment 29.24, is the imbalance between the small, the autonomous and the large regions. Initially there had to be an equal number of senators, then the big Regions opposed and said that a proportionality was needed, but today we are in a situation where the Valle d'Aosta Region, with 150,000 inhabitants, would have two senators; Liguria, with 1.5 million, three senators and then proportionally negative for the small regions. However, small regions no longer exist. Unfortunately, Liguria is often named, which no longer exists as a Region. In the last period we have lost the savings bank of Genoa; Garrone sold Sampdoria to Ferrero and, the most important thing and after 140 years the 19th Century passed away and became the property of John Elkann and of "La Stampa". It's an epochal change. Liguria no longer has entrepreneurship, but its citizens have the right to have the same rights as all other citizens of the country and compared to this they must have equal dignity and equal representativeness in Parliament with respect to all Italian citizens. The solution is macro-regions. We set up regions with a minimum population of 5 million inhabitants, as my colleague Barani said, perhaps not merging Piedmont and Liguria, but joining Savona and Imperia with Piedmont, La Spezia with Tuscany and Genoa with a Lombard-Piedmont area. The important thing is that they are more or less equal regions, express the same number of senators and have the same representativeness. This solves economic problems: at this moment Liguria weighs on Italy for over 600 million euros, more than it could cost: the 2,700 euros per capita that costs against the 2,200 of Veneto and Lombardy, 500 euros per 1.5 million inhabitants are almost 700 million euros. That's the country's disaster. The economy doesn't really work on small regions. For this reason, in Article 29, I propose the establishment of macro-regions with a minimum population of 5 million inhabitants. As an alternative, in Article 30, I propose the creation of macro-regions of health care: try to think, as far as Liguria is concerned, what Imperia has to do with La Spezia. We think of the territories for health, always territories with at least 5 million inhabitants; the regions below 5 million inhabitants must be annexed for the health part to larger regions: La Spezia will end with Tuscany, Imperia and Savona with Piedmont. You can't have heart surgery just 30 kilometers apart, just because they're on the border. The health plan must not be done at regional level, but at territorial level. I therefore really urge you to think about Article 29 and the constitution of macro-regions or, alternatively, the constitution of territories and macro-regions of health.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u360	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u361	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u362	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 29.28, which concerns the additional forms and special conditions of autonomy which can be granted to the regions. I have pointed out with this amendment a contradiction, so the possibility of granting additional special forms of autonomy, in relation to the point... [[Brusio]] I would like the attention of the rapporteurs in particular, because I think it is an important issue. [[Recalls of the President]] These additional forms and special conditions of autonomy, provided for in points (n) and (s) of the amended Article 117, are in contradiction with the indication that certain general and common provisions which remain at the head of the State are indicated in these points. There would be this paradox and this contradiction, according to which certain regions would be granted particular forms of autonomy, which refer to letters n) and s), where they are indicated in some cases attributions to the State for general and common provisions. In other words, in my opinion, every general and common provision could not be entrusted to the Regions, as determined by the combined provisions of Articles 29 and 30, points n) and s). I therefore propose, with my amendment, to exclude from the possibility of granting additional forms and special conditions of autonomy the functions relating to the standardization of general and common provisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u363	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u364	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u365	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 29.11. Of course, I expected the government or the majority to table such an amendment because it has been more than twenty years that you continue to say that you care about the future well-being of the people of Valsosina. It therefore seems to me that you have missed an amendment such as this, with which you could acknowledge what you have been telling us for 20 years, namely that the well-being of citizens is a priority for you over everything and therefore - as you say - the great works you do for the good of the citizens. In this amendment it is proposed to add the territory of the Susa Valley to Article 116. It seems to me that the whole Government, especially the PD, or at least all the promoters of this great work are among the subscribers and they vote favorably. If that were not the case, it would turn out that your every word about the welfare of the citizens is empty and hides other interests, which are not those of the citizens, are not those of giving the much praised development, that we abhor as a word, but that you often use. So I really expect a plateal subscription from the entire parliamentary arc and then a good vote for the addition of the territory of the Susa Valley among the autonomous Provinces.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u366	We are discussing both Article 29 and Rule 30. Since I have seen that many senators who have tabled amendments to these articles intend to intervene, we have unified the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u367	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u368	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u369	Sonego (PD). Mr President, I take the floor on the article as a whole, but in particular on three amendments, of which I am a signatory. I am referring to Amendments 29.23, 29.33 and, separately, Amendment 29.32. The subject of amendments 29.23 and 29.33 is actually also covered by the amendments adopted in the Commission and I have to say that from a formal point of view the standardisation proposed by the Commission is satisfactory. However, it is clear that the systematic placement of those standards in the constitutional law rather than in the Constitution ends up introducing a difference in substance in the quality of standardisation, although from a formal point of view the standardisation I propose is essentially identical to that proposed by the Commission and supported here by the rapporteurs. The reasons for which there is a difference in substance are clear and essentially adhere to the level of guarantee compared to future tampering with standardisation, i.e. it would be much easier to tamper with those guarantee rules if they are systematically placed in the constitutional law rather than in the actual Constitution. Coming to Amendment 29.32, I too would like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs, to whom I would ask them to accept the amendment: firstly, it does not conflict in any way with the system that the rapporteurs have brought to the House from the Commission and which they are pursuing in the course of our debate; therefore, there is no contrast. It is a standardization with which further elements of process are introduced in the approval of the implementing rules of the Statutes of the Regions and in particular it is expected that the State-Region Joint Committees that submit a proposal for a standard of implementation to the Council of Ministers will receive the decision of the Council of Ministers not later than 90 days from the date of the presentation. In other words, it is a processical standardization which makes the Council of Ministers responsible for giving a positive or negative response within a specified time limit. For these reasons, in particular the fact that the discipline proposed here does not conflict in any way with the establishment of the bill and with the system that the rapporteurs have in mind, I ask the rapporteurs to be kind enough to want to make precisely this amendment and to signal it as worthy of acceptance. Even if this is satisfactorily regulated, but the subject referred to in Amendments 29.23 and 29.33 is unsatisfactory, I shall withdraw the two amendments in question. On the other hand, I maintain Amendment 29.32 for the vote. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u370	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u371	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u372	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on Rule 30. One of the main reasons for this reform is to try to reduce the litigation between the State and the Regions before the Constitutional Court. In Article 117 currently in force, in fact, there are exclusive legislative powers of the Regions, of the State and competing competences. The competing competence - which we had copied from Germany in 2001 - makes sense in German cooperative federalism. In our conflicting and somewhat sloppy regionalism, which we have experienced in the last 15 years, the concurrent legislative competence has proved to be the ground for continuous clashes, sometimes even presumptuous. Today we repeal competing competence and I think it is a right choice. It has been shown that the distribution by subject is abstractly the clearest and safest, but in practice it proves to be fallacious. From the dispute before the Constitutional Court we can see that there are some issues that are cross-cutting: the environment, for example, is a matter in part state and partly regional because urban planning has an impact on the ecosystem, referred to in point (s) currently in force. I do not know if we will solve the problem of litigation, but I want to address another profile: in 2003 the Constitutional Court issued a fundamental judgment, No 303, which tried to say that in the exercise of all legislative powers, both exclusive and competing, it was necessary to observe the criterion of loyal cooperation. In essence, it was said that, in order to function, the distribution must be able to count on concrete, collaborative and constructive attitudes of the various players in legislation and public policies. It must therefore be understood that the distribution, both by subject matter and by interests at stake, is to be understood. In that judgment it was said, in fact, that limiting the unifying activity of the State to matters expressly attributed to it in exclusive power or to the determination of the principles in matters of concurrent power, as the Regions argued, would mean but surrounding the legislative competences of the Regions of iron guarantees, but it would also mean devalue too much unitary instances, which even in constitutional structures strongly pervaded by institutional pluralism justify, under certain conditions, a derogation to the normal distribution of competences. The Constitutional Court - and I quote, for example, the judgment n. 14 of 2004 - has also emphasized that Article 117 unifies the State's economic policy instruments that pertain to the development of the entire country: instruments that ultimately express a unitary character and, interpreted by means of each other, are all aimed at balancing the volume of financial resources included in the economic circuit. State intervention is therefore justified by its macro-economic importance. In short, Article 117 is a complicated provision, in which we need to be as clear as possible. Amendment 30.46, which has as its first signatory Senator Dirindin, aims to clarify that it is up to the State, precisely in view of what was stated in judgment No 14 of 2004, to determine social policies, distinct from the essential levels of assistance (LEA). We know that unfortunately a general law on LEAs in Italy has not yet been enacted: we are firm to a decree of the President of the Council of 2001. I believe, however, that it is necessary to make it clear that Article 3 (2) of the Constitution, which requires the Republic to remove the obstacles that limit the freedoms of citizens, should also require us to determine social policies in a progressive sense and to increase levels of social protection. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u373	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u375	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 29.35 and 29.36, which provide for the possibility of recognizing in the Statutes special conditions of autonomy for regions with special status, also in the light of the protection of linguistic minorities. The amendments, in which there is a principle that will then be necessary to intervene with a constitutional rule, also call for a new requirement in subsequent amendments: I am thinking, for example, of Amendment 38.88 (text 2), of Senator Zeller and of other senators, who we ask to be able to subscribe, even if referring to a subsequent article. Why this argument, President? Senator Dirindin is right: we face Title V of the Constitution as if it were the trailer of a motor vehicle, which is the substantial suppression, indeed the very particular modification, of the Senate. And since he started as the Senate of the Autonomouss and then arrived as the Senate of the Republic, we have engaged the reform of Title V, determining a condition of suffering in my opinion also from the point of view of respect for the principles contained in Article 5 of the Constitution, which provides that the autonomouss must be recognized. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I understand everything, but the rapporteurs are talking...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u376	Colleagues and honourable rapporteurs, since a debate is taking place on Title V of the Constitution and there has been a complaint about the impossibility of doing so in the Commission, let us try to use it here. GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, that is exactly what we were discussing!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u377	Mr President, I would like to ask the Government and the rapporteurs to pay a little attention to the fact that we are asking that certain rules - and the Statute is a constitutional law - be introduced into our Statute and that they recognize us as special conditions of autonomy because of the fact that we are a linguistic minority. This principle is implemented by Article 5 of the Constitution, which recognizes the existing autonomy of the Republic and the constitution of the Italian State. We celebrated the 150th anniversary last year; but we realized what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Of the two one: either the Risorgimento is a war of aggression and domination of the monarchic-Sabaud state, that is, of the Sardinian-Piedmontese State, or it is a war of liberation of pre-existing local communities, which also had a language and a culture. Since we're changing the Constitution, let's pay attention! [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]] DE BIASI (PD). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u378	You have the floor, but I would remind you that, as the time has expired for all the Groups, the time restrictions will now be fully respected. CRIMI (M5S). But we have 70 hours of voting, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, we're borrowing some time from the President's. Please, Senator De Biasi, you have two minutes to explain your position in relation to the amendments to Articles 29 and 30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u379	Mr President, I will be very brief, because Senator Dirindin has already said things that I share. However, I would like to say to the rapporteurs once again that they deeply appreciate their work, because there has been an objective improvement in the text... [[Brusio.]] I could also tell a joke to the speakers, saying that I am opposed and maybe they would listen to me: what do you want me to say? I had nothing against the rapporteurs, of course, but with the inevitable confusion of this moment. I would therefore like to say something very specific to the rapporteurs: I realize that there has been no objective time to discuss Title V in depth as we all would have liked. Having understood this, I do not pose any problems from this point of view. However, I would like to make another very serious point, as regards the fact that relations with the regions cannot unilaterally determine a balance within the Senate on the constitutional theme of Title V. I would like to see a single signal from this House saying that health, social affairs and the environment are not just a matter of money because it is behind people's lives. I believe that the Italian Constitution should provide this for a principle of social justice, for that Article 3 which, fortunately, we do not amend. Choose you, I surrender the weapons, it is white flag; choose you but a sign that says health, environment, education are values that go beyond economic compatibility we must give it. We must give it if we want to maintain the level of cultural civilization in Europe and Italy. And I don't think I'm too exaggerated to say it, but I think I'm telling people that they don't care anymore, I don't know if you know. And what can we answer to these people? That there is a problem of budgetary balance! Or should we not act as legislators so that health is a value experienced by all, first and foremost by legislators in favour of citizens? Any sign, but health is important. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u380	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u381	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u382	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to prevent us from opening a debate on an issue that is perhaps misplaced. We are discussing Article 116 of the Constitution, which provides for the granting of additional forms of autonomy to the regions, but not those concerning health and health. Not those. Ergo - apart from the fact that it is obvious that in this House we are all inclined to try to guarantee Italian citizens the highest standards of protection of the right to health and that Article 116 has nothing to do with Italians who cannot be treated (which is true but for different reasons) - we are only thinking about the possibility that some regions, who ask for particular forms of autonomy, are required two requirements: a budget in order and that they spend their money well. These are the two requirements. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, I would like to reassure my colleague that the issue of health protection cannot be delegated by the State to the regions; it is not in question when we deal with the different forms of autonomy referred to in Article 116. I know that President De Biasi knows very well, but I was pleased to say so in order to prevent a debate from taking place. On this subject, Senator De Biasi finds full legitimacy in her arguments regarding Article 70 and Article 117, but not on Article 116.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u383	Colleagues, since there are many members to speak, you can briefly illustrate your position in one minute. After all, the times are already up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u384	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u385	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u386	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, in my opinion, Senator Barani gave the right direction. I looked at how he redesigned the composition of our regions and, in my opinion, that was the line to keep. I am sorry that in this House a little deaf these issues are being cut a little. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, there are amendments concerning regions which also affect regions with special status, like mine, but in this House I have not heard anything about what the Region of Sicily does. And I would like the Sicilian colleagues to intervene as well. In fact, when in an article of this month on the "Corriere della Sera" I read that the Secretary-General of the Sicilian Regional Assembly earns 650,000 euros a year, that is 51 times the average income of one of its fellow citizens, and it is not intended to do anything because there is the financial autonomy of that Region, well, it seems to me that we are not doing our duty. That is why I said in general discussion that Title V should be dealt with in a special draft law. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u387	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u388	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u389	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, having not spoken before to reserve the opportunity to speak on this very subject, I would ask you to allow me two minutes, as you have done with everyone. In particular, I would like to mention Amendment 29.14, which concerns the entirely mountainous provinces of Sondrio and Belluno. Many problems have created the Delrio law, with real iniquities at the level of Provinces and communities of second degree, but even more when tried to repair the damage done, in particular in article 1, paragraph 3, where it is said that: The Provinces with a territory entirely mountainous and bordering with foreign countries are recognized the specificities referred to in paragraphs 51 to 57 and so on. I would like to point out that paragraph 57 refers to an invariance of expenditure, so further delegations and additional functions can be given provided that there is no new or greater burden on public finance. At this point we believe it is a real mockery of having written on a sheet of paper something that is not feasible. Therefore, together with other colleagues, I have tabled an amendment representing Belluno and Sondrio. We believe that it is right to give a voice to these Provinces at constitutional level and therefore to allow this specificity to be recognised by giving them the content that is due to them. We cannot at all drop the debate we have opened on the Delrio law, Questioning her. We therefore strongly ask that we not limit ourselves to a mockery but really give voice and content to what you have written so blandly in the Delrio law. We absolutely want to avoid a quasi-regime - as we have said on the agenda - by asking that the two provinces in question, which are mountain areas, should not be emptied. Let us remember - for example - that Belluno is known by UNESCO as a whole and a World Heritage Site, as opposed to this Government which does not give the recognitions it deserves. Aloud, then, we strongly demand and demand that there be recognition not only in words and with your bland programs. This government must vote on our amendment in order to recognize and correct that great mistake. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] who wanted, with a sentence, to insert into the Delrio law. We call on all Members who have the courage to give him their voice and content. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u390	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u391	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u392	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, Article 30 of the draft law, as out of the first Commission, re-enters the competences of the regions, unlike the Government's proposal, the promotion of the right to study of students and students. Amendment 30.70, of which I am first a signatory, was intended to overcome the current disparity between students from the Mezzogiorno and students from the North who can benefit from scholarships. Unfortunately - you know - the European Commission, the Europe 2020 Manifesto, asks our country to halve the school dispersal and to double the number of graduates. It is not possible to double the number of graduates until in large part of the Mezzogiorno students who are entitled - as our Constitution says - to reach the highest levels of education are unable to obtain those scholarships to which they are entitled. They can't have them. I then withdraw Amendment No 30.70 and turn it into an agenda, which calls on the Government to commit itself to drawing up the essential levels of the right to study and also the right to access to kindergartens. Moreover, we are discussing in the 7th Commission a legislative proposal so that children and girls can have the same opportunities to attend a kindergarten: a true situation in Emilia and Tuscany, but not in much of the regions of the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u393	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u394	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u395	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, in reality, the fact of taking away the subalternity of municipalities and regions, as it was with the formulation of the new Senate, should allow us all to understand that we will have a different situation as regards the issue of autonomy and, above all, the so-called constitutional delegation to the Regions. Several colleagues have signed Amendment 29.25, of which I am co-signatory together with my colleague Santini and other senators, because the season we are starting is very different from the very conflicting and unfortunately uncooperative one, compared to the loyalty expected from Title V as originated in 2001, between the State and the Regions. This constitutional equality and the possibility of expressing an assessment and specificity should ensure much more than all. Hence the need to offer, as proposed in this amendment, to the most virtuous regions, to those which do not exceed the average levels of expenditure to be recorded and which guarantee and can guarantee additional elements of autonomy and quality, the possibility of doing so in certain specific areas. It is clear to me that nothing is taken away from anyone, but someone is guaranteed, without increasing expenditure, an autonomy that he does not have today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u396	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u397	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u398	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Article 117 of the Constitution is to be cleared in one minute, where a whole reform has been carried out on it. I want to use the words that Senator Quagliariello (who I do not know if he is here at the moment) used when he was Minister and wanted to justify the need for constitutional reform. He said that the consequences of a very bad reform made in 2001 on Title V are still being paid, a reform that has brought infinite disputes and has not brought benefits for the citizens, but only inconveniences. Even today we pay for that reform, the citizens pay for it, the agencies pay for it, the regions pay for it. Well, now we are liquidating, indeed you are liquidating Article 117 of the Constitution, Title V, the responsibilities State-Regions, with sufficiency and indifference, as is evident from the debate, and with a text written exclusively by the Government that has not undergone any variation, except those - very few - imposed by the Executive itself. This is one of the fundamental points of the Constitution; it concerns the balance of powers between regions and the State, between two legislative bodies, and cannot be cleared in this way. It is yet another responsibility that you will carry on your shoulders for not saying "no" to this reform. In 20 years, someone will say that they are still paying the consequences and will make names and surnames: but on that list you will be there, my name will not be there! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u399	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u400	You have the right to do so for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u401	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I should like to explain briefly Amendments 30.43 and 30.45. The first of the two refers to points (g) and (m) of Article 117 of the Constitution, where, with regard to the discipline of contractual employment relationships, the legal discipline of employment is explicitly and extensively indicated in relation to public administrations, while in relation to private employment relations it is only referred to the protection of health and safety at work. This can give rise to an interpretation which is certainly contrary to what everyone in this House wants, namely a division of powers which sees legislative intervention entirely reserved for the State, including on the subject of regulating employment relations between individuals. Amendment 30.43 aims to avoid this possible distortion, which is determined by the fact that only the discipline of employment relationships in the hands of public administrations is referred to as a matter of state competence. Amendment 30.45 instead aims to allow the State, in the field of employment services, to intervene to establish standards and to monitor their compliance by the regions. The amendment is substantially overlapping with part of Senator Dirindin's amendment 30.46 and others and part of Senator Guerra's amendment 30.47 and others. They pose a problem which I think deserves attention from the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u402	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u403	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u404	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to explain Amendments 30.53, 30.98 and 30.126. The first and third are aimed at bringing health protection into line with the exclusive competence of the State. It is an issue that many colleagues have addressed today and it is precisely a matter of preventing the differentiation of the national health service on the national territory from being penalised by citizens over the course of time. In the case of a negative opinion on Amendments Nos 30,53 and 30,126, I would like to turn them into agendas, precisely because of the importance of health matters. Amendment 30.98 clarifies that matters falling within the exclusive competence of intellectual professional law are always of national importance since they are public bodies and therefore must not be regulated at a different level.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u405	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u406	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u407	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in so many speeches we stressed the importance of a serious debate on Title V, partly because 13 years after its approval it would have been right to reflect on the real effects it has had in recent years. I wanted to explain the amendments 29.26 and 29.27 in order to intervene where, as President Finocchiaro said, it is intended to extend autonomy to some regions which request it and which have a balance between revenue and budgetary expenditure on issues relating to education and the protection of the landscape and artistic heritage. I think that in this way we go beyond the reform of 2001, dismantling the cornerstones of the State: giving some regions greater autonomy in education, not the right to study, and in the matter of protecting the artistic heritage, the landscape and the ecosystem is a very serious mistake, which we will not repay in 10 years, but immediately because we are devoting our country to being a country at more speed. There will no longer be the speed of the South and the speed of the North, but there will be more speed because the economic and social conditions of our country are so diversified in the North, the Centre and the South that we will have a country with different speeds and many problems. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u408	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u409	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u410	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would have liked to point out to the rapporteur in good time that it is not correct that we are only discussing Rule 116 because, according to the President's instructions, we have also discussed Rule 117. With regard to the third paragraph of Article 116, namely differentiated autonomy, I would like to point out to Senator Crimi that it is not true that the Commission's text did not change that of the Government: it has made it much worse. In fact, appropriately the Government had completely abolished the third paragraph of Article 116, which introduces a tertium genus between special autonomy and ordinary autonomy of which absolutely does not feel the need, and which has never been activated by chance. In any case, the controversy that has opened up on the question of the financial constraint seems to me totally pretentious, because this text, with respect to the current Constitution, recalls the principles of Article 119, as already provided for, in which the principle, and therefore the constraint, of balance of the budget is also implied. Therefore nothing is added to the current Constitution which, on the other hand, the Government had appropriately proposed to correct by cashing out this rule that does not bring anything good. In this regard, since we are having a joint debate which perhaps does not create clarity, I would like to explain Amendment 30.37 and, for those who care about the protection of national standards in the field of public services, I would stress that this amendment, which refers to state competence in the field of uniform principles for the definition of models for the management of local public services, is the condition for this to happen. Otherwise, the methods of management will be put back to state legislation and the State will not be able to intervene, if not limited, to protect the common standards, but also to ensure economicity and efficiency. The report that will present tomorrow the commissioner to the spending review Cottarelli in the matter of municipalized cannot be matter of intervention of the Government unless there will be an explicit competence in article 117.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u411	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u412	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u413	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 30.47 and 30.112, and I would point out that it is quite humiliating to intervene in this context on such important matters. With Amendment 30.47 I would like to avoid making the same mistake with this constitutional reform as with the 2001 reform, namely to consider, in the three major areas of welfare (education, health and assistance), assistance, i.e. social policies, such as cinderella. This has led to a dramatic situation in our country, especially with regard to territorial imbalances. The latest data from ISTAT tell us of a expenditure of the municipalities for social interventions and services equal to 25 euros in Calabria and 168 euros in Emilia Romagna, not to mention the 282 euros in Trento. The shortcoming that I am referring to, to which I am trying to remedy with Amendment 30.47, is that Article 117 (m) and (n) refer... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] That sounds really indecent to me, though I'm moving on. As I said, health and education are included in the exclusive legislation, but not social policies, which concern the fundamental lives of people, children, the elderly, people with disabilities, social exclusions and the poor. All of these issues do not seem to me to be less important than those of health and education. With regard to Amendment No 30.112, I would like to point out that Article 117 of the Constitution states in the exclusive power of the State the definition of general and common provisions in many areas, such as the environment, tourism, food safety and others. This amendment leads us to consider the possibility, in the event of inertia of state legislation on the definition of these general and common provisions, of leaving to the Regions the power to intervene even if, as is said, with yielding norms, that is, with rules that lose effectiveness when the State does its duty and regulates these common general provisions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u414	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u415	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u416	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr. President, I'm not gonna waste the minute I've been given to complain, but I mean... We have tabled many amendments on Article 30 and I would like to focus on two fundamental issues. We have re-introduced - I know it may seem strange in this debate - competing legislation in two cases, two specific matters. Because the government completely re-enters into the exclusive competence of the state the energy and the choices on the infrastructures, of course of the great works. On the other hand, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to restore competing competence on these issues. Otherwise the territories and the Regions will be completely expropriated from any possibility of being able to say, to make or in any case to concur to choices, that are national strategic choices but that at times can be harmful for some Regions. The third question, Mr President, refers to a number of amendments relating to Article 117 (s), which, as it has been formulated in the Commission's text, is frankly disturbing: we are no longer talking about protecting the environment and the ecosystem, but we are talking only about general provisions. An amendment has been tabled by the rapporteurs, but with regard to this subject - I am addressing Senator Finocchiaro - perhaps it would be good for the protection and enhancement of cultural and landscape heritage to be understood as protecting the environment and the ecosystem. It will, therefore, take a little formal correction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u417	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u418	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u419	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, please do not start my time because I am speaking on the order of business. I point out with great respect and with great calmness that we are witnessing a surreal scene. We are discussing Title V, a fundamental part of constitutional reform, even two articles, 29 and 30 (so, in case, it should allow two minutes, instead of one) and we are witnessing scenes of colleagues talking with the noose around the end of the minute, of colleagues who are continuously interrupted by the fact that the microphone is turned off. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, M5S, LN-Aut, GAL and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Mr President, always with great respect, I would kindly ask you to allocate time to this debate...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u420	Senator Bocchino, with just as much respect I say that the times have expired. I give a minute to explain the amendments and I do not give any more time to make other types of speeches. You wasted your minute, I'll give you another one, but only to explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u421	Mr President, I would ask you, then, to convene the Conference of Leaders to give more time to this debate. It is not possible to liquidate the reform of Title V in these times! [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u422	If you wish to explain your amendment, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u423	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). At this point, you have to give me at least two minutes. It is not possible to work under these conditions. It's a really surreal scene, believe me, otherwise I wouldn't have intervened. I would ask you to convene a new group leader in order to give us more time to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u424	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u425	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u426	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you tell me that I have one minute for each amendment, I have signed 46 on two articles. Mr Bocchino, Mr President, is right. Losing time on these delicacies seems absurd to me. DIVINE (LN-Aut). It's no waste of time, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your time is up. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let's talk about the Constitution! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have used your time abundantly. [[Protests from LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). He exasperated us! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, do not make this debate worse than it is, with shameful speeches and interruptions in time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Each participant contributes to the debate. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, everyone here has spoken specifically on issues of no secondary importance, not to waste time. We ask you, therefore, to use the faculty that you also have to regulate a healthy and productive work in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-ILC and M5S Groups]] Having said that, Mr President, I do not know how many people have listened to Mrs Finocchiaro's speech: we are talking about matters of no secondary importance. We would like to dismantle the writing of Article 116 of the Constitution. To those colleagues who with good will, but mistakenly, would like to remove that part linked to a financial and administrative regularity of the institution, we say that this article was born on the Catalan and Spanish model, in which the autonomy is differentiated. As a region - Comunidad, it is called there - assumes the ability to manage a matter, it can ask the central state to administer something more; it can demand, that is, a differentiated autonomy. The third paragraph of Article 116 contains the same principle: dear Regions, if you prove that you are able to perform your duties well, ask for something more, that the State is happy to give up. In fact, it says in the Constitution that the Republic recognizes local autonomy, not that it disowns them. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The rule is that all the autonomy can do is do the autonomy. The current text says: but very well, Regions that are in financial distress, that you are not able to administer the ordinary, what more do you want to ask? It is not a question of service levels, but of proving that you are able to administer what has already been achieved. Therefore, we cannot compromise, but the rapporteurs themselves wondered why the regions of the North, which all have an active balance, must have it squandered because other regions do not know how to administer the ordinary. How do you expect these regions to increase that deficit so that the North continues to refinance it? Skip the country system. Precisely in order not to betray the Constitution, where we must recognize the local autonomy, our amendment 29.15 considers that there are areas that need particular autonomy, that is to say the totally mountainous areas (called as you wish, Provinces or bodies of wide area) that border with other States, which have different competition and taxation regimes; therefore these areas need to live with greater administrative autonomy. These, on the other hand, must be enhanced. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u427	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u428	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u429	ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make a quick passage on the change that we are making, partly because I think that the last change to Title V has not produced very good results. I therefore believe that this debate is very good and I have appreciated the many speeches made by my colleagues, in particular by Mrs Dirindin, who has entered the technical merit of many of our problems. In my opinion, addressing these problems fully, the regions could overcome many of the challenges they face today. I also agree with Mr Barani's amendments on macro-regions, which I think can really be one of the solutions to these problems. I would therefore like to put my signature on the amendments he has tabled to Articles 29 and 30 and to Amendment 29.10. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, do you accept Senator Zizza's request? Barani (GAL). Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u430	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u431	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u432	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to take up for a moment the content of Amendments 29.14, 29.15, 29.16 and 29.19, to which I would ask you to sign. My strong support for these amendments comes from the fact that they describe the possibility of recognizing particular forms of autonomy to entities with exclusively mountainous and neighbouring territories with foreign countries; entities and territories that require a singular administrative attention, necessary to attempt a progressive rebalancing with respect to the neighbouring territories, with which they are called daily to confront on the economic and social level. I therefore ask that my signature be added. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I see Senator Biinella accepts this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u433	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u434	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u435	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I rise to explain and, if the Presidency so permits, also to reformulate my amendment 30.2. Without going into the substance of the order - or disorder - of our work, we are presenting both the questions relating to Article 29, which refers to Article 116 of the Constitution, and, as the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, the amendments to Article 30, which relate to Article 117, as she intelligently pointed out. It is precisely on that point that my amendment, although graphically very redundant (it is two pages), merely amended what I think is necessary, in the interests of clarity of the text. I ask the government and the speakers to pay attention, because the lexical change is very sober. It is a question of including in point (m), the one referred to by my colleague, Mr Guerra, the expression "socio-sanitary" rights instead of "social" rights, which is more congenial to the formulation of the two successive lines of provisions for the protection and safety of health. Further on, it is proposed to add health protection to those cases where the law of the State may intervene in matters not reserved for exclusive legislation where the protection of the legal or economic unit of the Republic so requires; more sober but also more precise expression. I am referring, for example, to a vaccination plan, which can only have national implications. If possible, I would consider it appropriate to rewrite the amendment by indicating only these two lexical aspects and presenting it to the attention of the Government and the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u436	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u437	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u438	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to explain to the House why I have tabled a totally deleterious amendment to Rule 29; it is my only amendment to Articles 29 and 30. I am opposed to differentiated federalism, a little for the reasons that Senator Lanzillotta represented, but I am not opposed to tout court and in general to differentiated federalism. I believe, however, that such important issues - and I quote some of them: the issue of justice of peace, education, the educational system, programming and scientific research, the protection of cultural heritage - cannot depend solely on the relationship between income and expenditure. You probably have to find other indicators, which can help to understand if the Region is really virtuous and therefore can have the benefit of managing independently, instead of the State, the subjects I mentioned before. I prefer at this point to maintain rather the current wording, which does not foresee this federalism. Finally, I would like to add my signature to Senator Dirindin's amendment 30.167, if you agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin, do you accept Senator Orellana's request to add his signature to Amendment 30.167? DIRINDIN (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u439	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u440	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u441	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I would simply like to ask the rapporteurs whether it is true that it was decided in the Commission that Title V should be discussed in the Chamber, which was set aside. If so, I believe that the debate on Title V should be opened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u442	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u443	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u444	Martini (PD). Mr President, I am speaking for a political reflection and commentary on these two articles. It seems to me that we should bear in mind in particular the fact that a significant correction has been made in the Commission over the whole axis of Title V. The initial text of the Government had a certain sign of re-centralisation (it focused more on the mayors than on the Regions), while the text of the Commission has a significant correction, which invests more on the Regions. I consider it healthy, also to avoid the paradox of an investment on the Regions, until it becomes the second Chamber, and then a reduction of their role. So it seems to me that, beyond the various specific amending definitions, on which I believe we will have to gain the opinion of the Government and the rapporteurs, the first political choice of this House is to consolidate this turning point, not to go back and above all not to crumble it with all legitimate amendments, but also difficult to sustain. I would therefore like to stress this fundamental political aspect, namely that we should not waste the corrective work that has come about, and then on the basis of the amendments we will see where we can go with regard to the specific points. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u445	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). President! President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The debate is closed. Time's up. Senator Candiani, your Group has explained its position. I repeat, the time has expired and each Group has had the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u446	Invitation to withdraw or to vote against all the amendments tabled in Article 29. I must add, however, that since there are a number of amendments relating to large-scale entities with fully mountainous areas bordering on foreign countries, I would like to invite all the authors to withdraw because the subject is dealt with subsequently in Article 39, with an amendment by the rapporteurs, on 39.5000, which is in the Annex to the amendments, Annex XIII.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u447	Mr President, unlike the opinion expressed by Senator Finocchiaro, I am in favour of Amendment 29.25. In order to respond to the absence or not of the debate on this subject, as Senator Martini recalled, the text that has arrived in the Chamber is the result of a very accurate work of inquiry, with a comparison with the Regions, with the Government, with the rapporteurs and informally also in the Commission, except on the day on which I was unfortunately unable to be present. I can understand that everyone, with respect to the matter that is most dear to him, can be tempted to move around, but I believe that overall balance has been achieved, even if I would certainly have liked a greater advantage for the regions; the final point of fall is however this. Touching one piece or another is likely to bring down the whole castle of cards.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u448	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u449	There is a difference of opinion between the two rapporteurs on Amendment 29.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u450	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. On the amendment on which there is a differentiation between the two rapporteurs, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u451	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u452	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u453	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u454	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u455	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u456	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u457	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u458	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 29.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u459	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u460	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u461	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 29.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u462	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendments 29.2 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, 29.3, tabled by Senators Orellana and Battista, and 29.4, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.5 tabled by Senators Barani and Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 29.6 tabled by Senators Barani and Zizza, up to the words "Piemonte-Liguria" (Piedmont-Liguria). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 29.6 and Amendment 29.7 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 29.8, tabled by Senators Barani and Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.9 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 29.10 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.11 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u463	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u464	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u465	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote, since I have not previously been able to do so, because we are dealing here with a matter which is very important to our order. Amendment 29.12 proposes to give an important space to the Lombardy Region, because it is right that it should be so, as a locomotive of Italy, as well as the other important regions of our Peninsula. I remember that the Special Statute, as it had been outlined at the end of the war, had to give room for recovery to the regions lagging behind. Today we find ourselves, instead, in the condition of having to give the Regions that manage to tow the rest of the train the opportunity to be able to do it with full force. We therefore propose specifically, with this amendment, to attribute also to the Lombardy Region the special Statute, in addition to the ordinary one that already has today. This is not an exquisite proposal for an opportunity, but to consider that at the same time as we are voting on this reform, the Chamber of Deputies is closing its work on the competitiveness decree-law, which has been approved in this House, has been sent to the House and will now return to the Senate again. To make competitiveness means to give work to the people, it means to give opportunities for growth to the entire Country and a Region like Lombardy is able to pull all the other Italian Regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u466	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 29.12 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u467	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u468	You have the right to do so for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u469	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking in support of the amendment of the North League for the recognition of the Special Statute to the Veneto Region, which is located between two Regions with a special Statute: we also want our autonomy, we believe we have the right to have it. The demand starts from a very simple and indisputable fact: the state, with its taxes, is destroying our economy, bringing only misery, unemployment and despair among our people. We do not want and cannot allow this inexorable decline, for which the Venetians have no fault and have no responsibility. To all those who will vote against the recognition of the Special Statute for Veneto I intend to say one thing: we will always fight for the freedom of our people, today as senators, tomorrow as free citizens and we will see who will leave first, you or us, the whip or the back. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] One thing is certain: we will not give it to you so easily. The history of the North League should have taught it to everyone by now: if you deny us autonomy and force us to choose between being servants or independenceists, we will all become independentists. You're gonna force us to become one! [[Comments and protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u470	Please! I invite you to conclude, Senator Tosato.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u471	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you will allow me to conclude - I have not spoken in the debate - I mean that I have respect for all the symbols and flags in which every man and woman has the right to recognize themselves: very Venetians are still recognized today in a flag that has over a thousand years of history, a story always respectful of the autonomy. This, Mr President, is our flag! [[Senator Tosato has a flag with the lion of San Marco. Senator Candiani takes the scene with a mobile device. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u472	I'm begging the assistants to step in. We know the tricolor flag, the Italian flag. Colleagues, facilitate the task of assistants and we do not create other situations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 29.13 tabled by Senator Bisinella. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u473	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Bonfrisco, I'm closing, on the contrary, canceling the vote. I take note of that and give you the floor. Mr President, I asked you for the floor before the vote on this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, I canceled the vote. You have a chance to say yours in one minute. CASINI (PI). No, ma'am! Did we close a vote and then cancel it? It is not that we can close a vote and then cancel it! BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I hope that the House, apart from the emotional and certainly engaging statements of my previous colleague, Mr Tosato, will reflect only one minute on the importance of this debate, within the supposed constitutional reform under consideration, which risks ignoring and not addressing a subject that is right before us, with great urgency. As part of a possible reform of Title V, today, many years after the first reform, we are facing this issue, when, from here to a few months, in September and November, two important countries and two important regions in these countries will face a referendum that risks sowing and infecting other regions of Europe on the theme of independence. I therefore invite everyone not to smile and not to underestimate him, because instead he has a great importance for those who want to safeguard the idea of the nation and everything that has been done so far to keep this country together and keep this country together. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Caliendo.]] I also urge my fellow Members not to underestimate the scope of an economic issue, within a dramatic crisis that the whole of Europe is experiencing, in some territories and in some situations where this is particularly felt. In announcing my vote in favour of this amendment, I would like to draw the attention of all of us and all those who do not want to embark on dangerous roads for adventures that we do not know where they can lead us, certainly to the disintegration of the European fabric, and I call on everyone to look carefully and honestly at this amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u474	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.13 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 29.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u475	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u476	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u477	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have already set out amendment 29.14, but I really want to ask that there be an act on the part of this House, not only by the senators of the provinces of Sondrio and Belluno, but by everyone, to ensure, as I have already said, a content to a regulation that Delrio law, No 56 of 2014, has only written in empty words. We therefore appeal to those living in the mountains, because we know what difficulties this entails. It is right to give more functions to a Province and resources to be able to implement them. We really want to vote with courage to give this answer to the mountain, because it has the right to do so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u478	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 29.14, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, up to the words 'by Sondrio'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of the amendment and amendment 29.15 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.16. BELLOT (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's identical to the previous one, Senator. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.16, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Buemi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 29.17. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.18.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u479	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u480	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u481	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I will vote in favour of this amendment, which is of common sense, because it provides for the Chambers to be able to modify the Statutes of the Regions with a special statute, subject to agreement with the said Regions or with the Autonomous Provinces, thus slimming down the current process. For this reason, this is an amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u482	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u483	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u484	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I am sorry but I raised my hand for the two amendments previously voted on. I am referring to Amendments 29.14 and 29.15, for which I voted against by my political group. In fact, I believe that the issue of the autonomy of Veneto and the strengthening of autonomy in mountain areas is absolutely predominant in the near future. It must be acknowledged to the Government, and we thank him for this, to have offered, with amendment 39.5000 and with the help of the Regions, an autonomy to the entirely mountainous areas, which I think goes precisely with regard to the possibility of an improvement of that deficit situation compared to other contermini realities - I speak in particular of the Provinces of Sondrio and Belluno - that they find themselves living in an objective situation of double difficulty because of the fact of being confined... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u485	Thank you, Senator, but we have already voted. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.18, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u486	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u487	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u488	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, Amendment 29.19 is very important because it contains a wording which must also meet the comments made by my colleague, Mr Puppato. Indeed, it is a better formulation that clarifies, acting on Article 116 of the Constitution, that special conditions of autonomy are attributed to entities of wide area with territory entirely mountainous, bordering on foreign countries. In this case, it is precisely the comments made by the various colleagues here that are consistent. I would therefore urge you to endorse this amendment and, in any case, to support it by voting if you really are interested in resolving these long-standing issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u489	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.19, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.20 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 29.21, 29.22 and 29.23 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 29.24, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u490	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u491	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u492	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, but there was a colleague who had previously asked for the floor and, having been unable to vote, wanted to confirm the number of amendments. In addition, in the last vote we did not understand what amendment he was referring to. So, we'd like a better organization of the work. Give us time to move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u493	Senator Stefani, what vote were you referring to? Please, if you wish to correct a vote, you can put it in writing so that we take note of it and put it in the minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u494	I just wanted to say that I voted in favour of Amendments 29,18 and 29,19.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u495	Colleagues, we have voted for Amendment 29.24. We have now moved on to Amendment 29.25, on which the rapporteurs have expressed a different opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u496	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u497	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u498	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, on the basis of the detailed opinion of the rapporteurs and of the fact that the amendment is signed by representatives of many parliamentary groups, I would like to ask whether it is possible to make provision for a rewording which may take account of the fact - and I take this opportunity to say so - that in the Constitution we must endeavour to indicate a virtuous path for the needs of autonomy present in some regional realities. I would point out that the referendums for independence are not only held in Scotland and Spain, but in November one is also planned in an important Italian region. I therefore believe that it is our precise duty to indicate in the Constitution a correct and supportive constitutional path to ensure serious and well-founded ways of autonomy. I therefore call for a provision to be made for Amendment 29.25. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bonfrisco and Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u499	I call on the rapporteurs to express their views on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u500	The rapporteurs jointly agree on the provision of amendment 29.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u501	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u502	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u503	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u504	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I have also signed this amendment with some of my colleagues, I would like to make two clarifications. Given the importance of the topic and the constitutional path that is being created, also in the light of the approval on the Venetian Regional Council of the law that announces the referendum, I declare first of all the intention to add the signatures of all colleagues of the Group of the North League and to accept the request for provision so as to be able to formulate the best wording for the norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u505	I ask Senator Santini if he accepts the signature of all members of the Northern League Group. SANTINI (PD). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u506	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u507	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u508	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). On behalf of all members of the Group, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment 29.25. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask Senator Santini if he accepts the signing of all the Senators of the Mixed-SEL Group. SANTINI (PD). I accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u509	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u510	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u511	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to say that even in this amendment it is proposed that it is possible to grant as a form of autonomy to the regions the harmonization of public budgets and the coordination of public finance and the tax system. If the attention of the rapporteurs has been focused on this point - as has been evident - the previous speech is more appropriate, namely that of my amendments that the House of Independents has to deal with these issues. It is enough to note that it is necessary for the Chamber of Autonomies to take care of it. If, however, the rapporteurs were to give a positive opinion on the transfer of power to the regions on these matters, the previous amendments even became consequental and necessary even more than they were.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u512	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u513	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u514	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I rise to add my signature to this amendment and, in any case, to say to Mr Azzollini that I believe I interpret the rapporteurs in saying that, at the time when they asked the proposers for the provision, they really intend to reformulate the text with specific reference - I believe - to the point you mentioned, that they could not be delegated even to the virtuous.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u515	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u516	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u517	Mr Azzollini (NCD). I thank President Sacconi for his interpretation. Of course, I await the wording from the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u518	I would ask the rapporteurs whether we should put aside amendments 29.26 and 29.27 which seem to me to be related to 29.25. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am, we can set them aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 29.25, 29.26 and 29.27 are therefore laid down. Amendments 29.28 and 29.29 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u519	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u520	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u521	URAS (Misto-SEL). I am in favour of Amendment 29.30 and I would ask that we be able to endorse it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin, do you accept Senator Uras' signature?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u522	I agree and would like to explain my dissenting vote. In the meantime, I would like to say that it is true that the current version of Article 116, as proposed by the Commission, refers to Article 119, which rightly says that the resources allocated to the regions must be defined on the basis of standard costs and requirements, and that is fine. However, it does not say what they must be intended for. We know that the destination constraint no longer exists. Therefore, the regions, when they receive the resources allocated to them, can use them for any purpose, respecting the essential levels of assistance. We ask - and I would like to reassure those who fear that more autonomy will be given to the regions - not only that it spends less, but also that it spends well. This is something we need to learn in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u523	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 29.30, tabled by Senator Dirindin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 29.31.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u524	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u525	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u526	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, with Amendment 29.31, the subject of the amendment of the Statutes of the Regions to the Special Statute is once again raised. I would remind you that the autonomy of these regions, in our view, may not be sufficiently protected in some areas of the reform; there are critical profiles that will emerge when we examine Article 38 in this regard. In this connection, Amendment 29.31 is inserted, essentially by requiring that any amendment to the statutes should be made in agreement with the regions concerned, in a spirit of cooperation and consultation which must characterize the national State when dealing with the special self-governments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u527	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u528	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u529	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Amendment 29.31, which I request to be able to endorse.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u530	Senator Bocchino, do you accept Senator Uras' request to sign Amendment 29.31? BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.31 tabled by Senators Bocchino and Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 29.32 tabled by Senator Sonego. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 29,33 and 29,34 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 29.35...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u531	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u532	We shall cancel the vote in progress. You have it, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u533	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on this subject. I asked the rapporteurs to reconsider their opinion against Amendment 29.35. This is about respect for historical-linguistic minorities. Since I believe that the opinion has been opposed, I would ask for the provision of amendment 20.35 or for it to be withdrawn and turned into an agenda, the presentation of which will be by Senator Uras, and I would like it to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u534	Amendment 29.35 has therefore been withdrawn and transformed into an agenda for which we await the text to submit it to the opinion of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u535	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u536	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u537	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I come from a Province which is autonomous according to the linguistic minorities belonging to the Region. The State with the autonomy, thanks to the presence of linguistic minorities, has always treated in accordance with Article 6 of the Constitution concerning respect for minorities. I am outraged that the Senate Assembly and the Government have refused Amendment 29.31, at the first signature of Senator Bocchino, which clearly states that that agreement must be respected. Since the statutes of the autonomous, regional and autonomous provinces are constitutional, i.e. they are on the same level as the Constitution, we cannot deny that they serve as a basis for their amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Mr President. The first autonomous realities that negotiated the public finance shelf were the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, which sacrificed more than 600 million of their transfers on the assumption that the State no longer ingested on the competences, unless understood. It has already been written and Mr Bocchino proposes it again, but the government rejects it. One of the first rules for a State to be respected is that governments in their succession respect the State. Pacta sunt servanda: if the State makes a commitment, any Government that happens must respect it, otherwise it is a Government that no longer has the face and the word. This government shows that it does not even know how to comply with the commitments it has made with the autonomy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u538	Amendment 29.36 has been withdrawn. As some amendments have been tabled, we also reject Article 29. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 30, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u539	On Rule 30, Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw the amendments tabled, otherwise the opinion is against, except for amendment 30.169, which is identical to amendment 30.170, which we ask Mr Bisinella and Mr Sacconi to change to the agenda. Of course, the opinion is in favour of Amendment 30.5000 by myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u540	I agree with the co-rapporteur, except for Amendment 30.5000, on which my opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u541	The Government gives its assent to the opinion of the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u542	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u543	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u544	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.1 tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u545	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u546	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u547	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, it seems to me that the opposite opinion of the rapporteurs is due exclusively to the lack of graphic redundancy because, in reality, it should be pointed out that these are benefits relating to social and health rights (i.e. the second line of point (m))) I believe it is necessary to take into account that in the history of Italian social legislation the so-called essential levels of care (LEA) - luck and misfortune they have had - are born precisely in the field of health legislation. Hence the lexical opportunity of my suggestion and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u548	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Compagna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.3 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.4 tabled by Senators Barani and Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.8, which is identical to amendments 30.10 and 30.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u549	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u550	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u551	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, on Amendment 30.8 I also honour the signing of the League Group. I would like to remind you that this amendment really aims to remove the snares that we find and that are strengthened with the new constitutional text. Amendment 30.8 also aims to free the other public institutions, because in this way the constraint is also imposed on local authorities and regions. Instead of trying to free ourselves and finally give breath to the possibility of growth of our country, we also force other public institutions to be bound by this shirt of Nesso. I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of this amendment, which really has nothing to do with... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u552	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u553	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u554	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of the Group and, above all, to stress how complicated it is, following this vote, to hold a policy of dispute with the European Union in the field of the economy. The President-in-Office of the Council will find himself in great difficulty when he has to support the idea of greater flexibility, because greater flexibility burns with these financial provisions. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u555	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u556	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u557	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as a signatory to these amendments, I would ask the House to reflect and see what we are talking about, and I would stress what my fellow Members have just said in previous explanations of vote. This is the emergency exit from the very serious financial situation that will cause our country's breakdown. We are talking about fiscal compacts and situations that will stifle that difficult economic recovery that today economic and financial data still say far away. This is the emergency exit. We ask that this be included in the Constitution, that the obligation for our country to succumb to situations of financial constraint such as those we have just listed and that have produced the European economic disaster we are participating in be eliminated. This is the emergency exit. With your vote, you can... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u558	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u559	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u560	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a statement in favour of the Government. I believe very much in the possibility of being able to recontract and revise the constraints, not from the point of view of their installation, but of the possible flexibility that Prime Minister Renzi has indicated among his priorities and that - I imagine - is his next commitment in the context of the new European Union framework, once, in the context of the European Union, he has established the incorporation of all roles, especially on the economic front. Once we understand that Italy will not have a role in the European system, beyond what Mario Draghi already owns at the ECB, we will all the more be able to ask for a more flexible articulation in the application of those constraints, given the advance of the balance of the budget and also given the inexorable constraint of the fiscal compact. I think that an opportunity like this should not be lost, in order to be able to allow our country and our Government, in case, from the political point of view, one could reverse the course of Europe, to be able to review, in favor of Europe, but above all of our country, the frequency of those bonds and their organization, denying its sacredness and therefore seriously leaving a policy of austerity, which is the one that led us to today's ISTAT data. How can we do this if we have not seized the opportunity to free ourselves, like other countries, from this plant, leaving these aspects to the judgment of governments, of politics, but above all of the popular will? [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u561	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.8, tabled by Senator Tremonti and other senators, identical to the 30-day amendments, tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators, 30.10, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, and 30.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (Senator Marton points out that he wants to intervene, indicating the benches of the PD Group.) I beg the Senators Secretary to follow the work. MARTON (M5S). Mr. President, the cards are always there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm calling the secretary senators' attention. I can't follow everything. [[Ironic applause from Senators Crimes and Airola]] AIROLA (M5S). But is this a way to lead the House? Wake up! [[A card is drawn from the voting device. Applause from the M5S Group]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.12 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.13 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u562	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u563	Senator Arrigoni, we cancel the vote. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u564	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, with Amendment No 30.13 we ask that the revenue from the municipal taxes and revenue should not be allocated to the State. We are tired that, from the Monti government, passing from that Letta and coming to that Renzi, the State uses the mayors to be the collectors. I remember that there are tributes, like the IMU category D, which end up totally in the state coffers. The institutions of the North are willing to give up the solidarity fund's money, but they want to keep all their own taxes. It is a scandal that we denounce. We call on all the senators in this House to approve this amendment. Mayors can't be collectors on behalf of the state. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u565	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.13 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Orellana suggests he wants to intervene]] Senator Orellana, you can speak on the next amendment, which is similar. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u566	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u567	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u568	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote. I believe that in a solidarity system, even if we are moving towards a form of federalism in which there are territorial bodies such as the Regions and the metropolitan cities, the tax element must remain in the central state, so all the incoming resources should go as far as possible to the state. We already have the additional regional and municipal funds that help to finance these intermediate bodies, but above all Amendment 30.14 gives autonomy to the regions and so I do not see why we should vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u569	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u570	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u571	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I refer to what Senator Gaetti said at the beginning of this sitting. You had planned 80 hours for the votes; we are voting, 75 hours are still available for the votes (please check). Therefore, for the votes give at least time to intervene to those who ask to do so - at least that - without making so much fuss. [[Protests from PD and SCp groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u572	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.14, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.15 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.16
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u573	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u574	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u575	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I'd like to know if it was completely abolished... President. On the order of business, I only give the floor to the Parent Company, if there is. D'ANNA (GAL). I'm the group leader. I'm sorry about you. [[Ironic applause. Laughter.]] Let me understand on the basis of what point of regulation you, despite the availability of time that Senator Crimi mentioned earlier, have decreed that the Groups or Group leaders or Group leaders cannot make an explanation of vote, even if it were ten seconds. I say this to poison the climate too: do you remember the transmission "The musician"? She reminds me of Mario Riva.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u576	Thank you for the approach that I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u577	D'ANNA (GAL). Can you answer me? Can the explanation of vote be made? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you want to do it, yes, but if you want to make any more arguments, I'm sorry. Hers are more musical. D'ANNA (GAL). I understand very well that the President-in-Office of the Council is coming tomorrow and we have to get together with the clean apron and the job done. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] I understand that, but do not preclude, do not conculcate the elementary rights of senators. She's above the sides. What are you interested in concluding an hour earlier or an hour later?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u578	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u579	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u580	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking on the same issue that we have already raised before when we were to explain the amendments and we have all rushed on very complex issues, as we have seen. Therefore, Mr President, since it is in your power and, in any case, with a maximum of hours that has not been consumed, I would ask you to ensure that we can take action to make explanations of vote that make some sense, not least because I believe that the competitiveness decree is not yet coming (maybe it will come this night), so I do not think that you have an obligation to hurry immediately to face the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u581	Senator, I give you the floor for an explanation of vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.20 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.21.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u582	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u583	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u584	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, at least I would like to make the announcement of a vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can do that on Amendment 30.21. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I had raised my hand before. The provisions of amendment 30.21 extend not only to the European Union but also to agreements with other international bodies. I therefore voted in favour of this amendment and also for Amendment 30.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u585	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u586	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u587	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u588	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on a point of order, also for the memory of Senator Barani, who often and willingly believe that, out of excessive confidence, he forgets his powers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please read the Rules of Procedure... CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure: Attributions of the Secretaries. 1. The Secretaries shall supervise the preparation of the Minutes (...); they shall keep note of the Senators who have been registered to speak (...). Senator Barani, please assist the President in this task.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u589	He's doing it very well, too much. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.23 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.27.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u590	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u591	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u592	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 30.28. I do not agree with the reasons that have been put forward, because the amendment specified the competence. I hope that, in the course of the discussions on these issues, we can return to this aspect, which simply complements the matter. On this occasion, he also announced the withdrawal of amendment 30.81.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u593	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u594	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u595	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to endorse Senator Pagliari's amendment 30.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u596	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.27, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator Pagliari and other senators, subsequently withdrawn by the proposers and made by Senator Mussini, identical to amendment 30.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.30, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.31 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.32 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u597	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u598	I shall cancel the vote on Amendment 30.32. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u599	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to warn you that on Amendment 30.35 I would like to speak for an explanation of vote. Because we're going very fast, I thought I'd let you know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He did well to anticipate it, but if you make the request in writing and deliver it to the assistants, you facilitate the task and favor speed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u600	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u601	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u602	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind you that we asked for a secret vote on Amendment 30.33, and I do not know if you are aware of that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are still in Amendment 30.32. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I wanted to remind him in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u603	We'll see if there's confirmation of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.32 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.33, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 30.33 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.34 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.35.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u604	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u605	She's got it, she's booked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u606	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander, you're always very kind, but don't put the note on the register, please, I swear I won't say anything to deserve it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't have a record. BULGARRELLI (M5S). This amendment speaks of the protection of minorities. [[Brusio.]] Listen to me, please, I talk once in a while! Amendment 30.35 concerns the protection of minorities. I was wondering, however, who will protect Italians, given also the data ISTAT that came out today regarding the economy and the state of the situation in Italy, now I believe that Italian could also be considered a minority and therefore citizens should be protected both with this constitutional reform, and at the economic level. I therefore believe that it is appropriate, not only to suspend this work, but also to start talking about serious matters, as demonstrated by what ISTAT has said today. Maybe ISTAT's just owls and owls, too, I don't know. We hope that at least this amendment will pass, since nothing has passed so far, and that, sooner or later, the Italians as a whole will also be protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u607	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.35 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.36 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.37, tabled by Senators Lanzillotta and Quagliariello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.38, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.39, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 30.41.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u608	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u609	You have the floor for one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u610	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 30.41 concerns administrative simplification, which means that we are clearer and better understood, so that everything is easier and more understandable, making the operation of the administration even more logical. Simplifying administrative action means cutting down unnecessary procedural steps, controls and formalities or eliminating anything that is superfluous or even harmful to the proper functioning of the administration. Administrative simplification is a means of improving the relationship with the administration of citizens, economic actors, social formations, and of course all those working within the administrative system itself. In this sense, administrative simplification can be considered synonymous with administrative reform, i.e. an overall change in the administration aimed at making its action more efficient, rapid and economical. The purpose of the above premise is to highlight the importance of an exclusive competence of the State in this matter, in order to allow and ensure the consistent use of simplification tools throughout the national territory, with consequent benefit for all Italian citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). It is also considered that, for the sake of clarity, administrative simplification applies to all the public administration activities of which the procedure is, however important, a subset. In our view, it is therefore appropriate in the text to clarify the wording proposed by this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u611	I'm asking to speak for a statement...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u612	I would remind you, however, that Senator Fucksia has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u613	FACTORS (M5S). However, I would like to ask for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry, but I never speak and, if I decide to speak, there is obviously a reason, so I would like the debate to continue to take place in a civil way, even with respect for people who never speak and who may have something to say. My Group has decided not to take part in the votes because at the moment there are other priorities for the country, as ISTAT data tells us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Nevertheless, I will vote against this amendment by my Group because I believe that simplification is in any case an intrinsic duty of a civil state: it makes no sense to introduce rules for simplification in a Constitution, when it comes to administrative procedure rules which should only be common sense rules. I believe that with all these amendments, which go quite in detail with respect to what should be instead of common sense procedures, we are really ruining our Constitution, which is beautiful as it is, while it is being manipulated by people who do not have the right to do so, including us who are not legitimate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u614	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u615	You have the right to do so for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u616	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, in part the Senator Fattori has burned me, in the sense that I agree with the fact that simplification at administrative level is important, but I think it is very welcome to introduce this aspect into an article in the Constitution. It is intrinsic to the fact that, when laws are made and a public administration is organised, this must be done in the most slender and reasonable way possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u617	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 30.41 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators, until the words "administrative simplification" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 30.41 and Amendment 30.40 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.42 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.43, tabled by Senator Ichino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.44, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u618	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u619	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u620	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I had informed you in writing of the withdrawal of Amendments 30.43 and 30.45. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] I therefore request that the vote on Amendment 30.43 be cancelled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u621	It's been voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u622	ICHINO (SPI). It could not have been voted on, since I had withdrawn it. SANTANGELO (M5S). He's right! ICHINO (SPI). I submitted a written document to the Presidency at least half an hour ago. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We do not know who the document has come to, so let us check whether there is a document on the withdrawal of these amendments. ICHINO (SPI). I handed it over to the offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is a declaration of withdrawal, in agreement: we cancel the vote on Amendment No 30.43, which was withdrawn together with Amendment No 30.45. CASINI (PI). Another annulment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Easy, fellas. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.46.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u623	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u624	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u625	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, I would just like to remind the House that this amendment calls for the discipline of social policies to be placed within the general framework reserved for the exclusive competence of the State and that this discipline falls within the legal category called general rules, which is known and does not create inconsistencies, discretion or confusion, because it has already been well defined by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u626	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u627	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u628	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, first of all, I would like to add my signature to this amendment 30.46 and to the subsequent one by Senator Dirindin. I would also like to add that I was quite disappointed that this Title V and Article 117 of the Constitution did not speak at all in the Commission and that the problem of the debate in this House was resolved in a speech between senators, without being able to understand what the rapporteurs wanted to say, who spent two or three words on Rule 116, totally skipped 117. Among other things, in the debate, the expression 'general and common provisions for health protection' means nothing or everything. The same reference has been made to the general and common provisions for the rules of the school system and the same rules on the environment. That sounds totally ridiculous to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u629	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u630	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u631	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to add the signature to this amendment, because health is a subject that I particularly care about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll ask Senator Dirindin if you agree. DIRINDIN (PD). Yes, Mr. President. FACTORS (M5S). I would also like to ask, if possible, to add my signature to all the amendments referred to in Article 30 aimed at ensuring the essential levels of assistance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u632	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u633	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u634	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to add my signature to Amendment 30.46. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll ask Senator Dirindin if you agree. DIRINDIN (PD). Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u635	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u636	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u637	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour of this amendment. One who, like me, conducts a battle for special autonomy and greater regional autonomy believes that these are subjects that must be treated with great uniformity, in such a way as to guarantee to all Italian citizens the same rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u638	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u639	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u640	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a proposal signed by myself, by Senator Bianconi and Senator Romano, to ask the Government to commit itself to taking the appropriate steps so that the legislative competence of the State on all social policies can be further clarified in the follow-up to the process of constitutional reform. I say this because the amendment I have signed, as well as the next one, deserves the utmost attention. There are clearly reasons why it is not possible to give a positive opinion. I think it is right to keep track, not only in the debate but in the decision-making arrangements, of the government's direction in this respect. I therefore call on Senators Guerra and Dirindin, who are signatories to Amendments 30.46 and 30.47, to withdraw their respective amendments by voting on this agenda in such a way that it remains in the way of the decisions taken, and not only in the debate, to trace the importance of the inclusion of social policies at national level.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u641	Senator Dirindin, do you accept the proposal made by Senator De Biasi to withdraw his amendment and turn it into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u642	Mr President, I very much appreciate Mr De Biasi's efforts, but I believe that continuing to postpone is not the best strategy. I therefore propose that my amendment be put to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u643	Senator Guerra, the proposal was addressed to you, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u644	Mr President, the amendment is very simple because it equates social policies with education and health. Unfortunately it is a matter of expressing a yes or a no, there is no need for other elucubrations. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u645	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u646	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u647	MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment No 30.46, which is very important because it reminds us when we said that touching Part Two of the Constitution is affecting the fundamental rights envisaged in the first. Here we are reminded of those fundamental rights that characterize the constitutions born after the Nazi-fascist liberation, which are the protection of social and civil rights, invisible to the various financial organizations that would like to abolish this Constitution; and this House must not forget that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u648	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u649	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u650	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask you to add my signature to Senator De Biasi's agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rizzotti, Amendment 30.46 has not been turned into an agenda. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Senator De Biasi has just introduced him to the rapporteur, Finocchiaro. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is this another agenda? Senator Dirindin did not agree to turn her amendment into an agenda, but requested that it be voted on. Colleagues, there are time limits for the presentation of agendas, we cannot proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u651	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u652	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u653	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I rise to say that I was one of the signatories to this amendment and that I now withdraw my signature. I believe that Senator De Biasi's remarks are correct, in analogy with what has also been done for another amendment relating to the right to study. The subject is the same and I therefore believe that an agenda for the Government is more than useful. I therefore hope that the agenda will be presented and I am told that it has already been done. I therefore withdraw my signature from Amendment 30.46.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u654	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u655	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u656	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking for two reasons. The first is to ask Mrs Dirindin to be able to sign her amendment. The second, to declare the Group's vote in favour, is worthy of the consideration that Senator Dirindin intends to introduce within a health system, which since he passed to the Regions is a bit 'the dress of Harlequin. The same applies to the allocation of the Health Fund, which creates disharmonies and discrasies with regard to the possibility of the various regions to guarantee the essential levels of assistance. Therefore, recalling this principle in the Constitution could result in both the adoption of standard costs and a different method of financing the system and the allocation to the Health Fund regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u657	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u658	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u659	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, in analogy with the lexical wording I supported in my amendment, that of my colleague, Mr Dirindin, seems to me to be satisfactory, or even closer to my own, than the social legislation which is linked to the health of essential levels.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u660	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u661	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u662	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Dirindin for her courage and excellent initiative, and I would ask her to be able to sign her amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u663	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u664	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u665	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, I would like to withdraw my signature on Amendments Nos 30,46 and 30,47 and ask my colleagues to reconsider the proposal made by Senator De Biasi to the House, namely to commit the Government through an agenda to review the whole matter. I must admit that the rule, as it emerged from the Commission - I thank the rapporteurs for the effort they have made - is certainly unclear. Therefore, with a moment of calm and not with the excitement of the House, all that is absolutely delicate, complex and articulated must be rewritten so as not to create further confusion with the competing subjects. As written in the article, the norm would undoubtedly lead to other disputes. Therefore, I would ask for further consideration from the Government and the rapporteurs and we accept the agenda. Let us reflect further and write this rule in a better way so that we do not find ourselves as in 2001. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The agenda has yet to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u666	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u667	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u668	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this tsunami that we are facing with an irreproachable and unrepeatable tour de force, we were lucky - it is certainly a fortune - so the case has meant that Articles 3 and 32 should be spared from the constitutional revolution. I believe this is an extremely positive fact, because the principles of universality, solidarity and fairness are written in the history of the tricolor and I believe that the Constitution, within these articles, effectively encloses the synthesis of social battles that have led our country to gain levels of equity and progress that we absolutely cannot ignore at a delicate moment such as what we are facing. On this basis, I would ask Mrs Dirindin and Mr Guerra to be able to sign their amendments and, if necessary, if they were to be transformed - as Mrs De Biasi asks - into an agenda, I shall withdraw my signature to them and add it to the agenda. It is an act of good will. It is an act that we owe out of respect to those who wrote the Constitution and believed in its founding values. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u669	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the large number of signatures requested to be applied or withdrawn, anyone wishing to do so must send the Presidency in writing their intention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u670	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u671	Senator Bignami, if you intend to intervene to ask for your signature....
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u672	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I'm sorry, ma'am, but I already signed it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). What are we talking about? We're talking about what? Are we talking about civil and social rights in a so-called democratic country? General provisions for health protection: have you voted for a Senate that does not guarantee minorities and now we are scandalizing about this? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's crazy! I really can't figure out what's changing. It just takes courage. So have some courage. I think very much of my colleague Guerra, who is a prepared senator. You noticed that this thing is missing. Let's put it on. Minister, have some courage. The measure has yet to pass to the Chamber of Deputies, then it will have to return to the Senate. What would we do? We've done enough damage. We guarantee at least health protection and civil and social rights. [[Applause from the M5S, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u673	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u674	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u675	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, first of all I would ask you to accept Amendment 30.46. In addition, I declare the vote in favour of it and I would stress that, in particular, in point m-a, it proposes the general rule of law. This is a very important subject on which I reserve the right to speak when I vote on a next amendment at my first signature, which, among other things, restores the government text and removes a number of ambiguities which have arisen with the provision introduced by the rapporteurs. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u676	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u677	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u678	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, I am very keen on this subject and I would like to point out that perhaps it has been a little misunderstood because the surgery is very surgical. That is to say, it is only a matter of bringing social policies to the same level as the text currently before us for education and health. From this point of view, I accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 30.47 and turn it into an agenda to maximise the result that I really care about in a special way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u679	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u680	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u681	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are signatories to this amendment and do not intend to withdraw it and consequently turn it into an agenda. We are talking about a very serious issue for which I ask the attention of the Government and the rapporteurs. In fact, it is a question of guaranteeing all Italian citizens the same levels of service. On this matter some of you have opened a very heavy dispute with other political forces and for other territories of the country. It is not acceptable for this principle to be violated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u682	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u683	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u684	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask that Amendment 30.46 be voted on separately. The first part is that concerning point (m) and concerns civil and social rights, the second part is that of point (m-a) and concerns health issues and social policies. I believe, Mr President, that I have made myself clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u685	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u686	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u687	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I know that my speech is somewhat contradictory to that of my previous colleagues. I invite all senators to reflect. With this reform we have practically emptied the legislative competences of the Regions and one competence after another passes into the primary competence of the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is a real race to add one competence after another to the exclusive ones of the State. At some point, we have to ask ourselves what is the point of maintaining the regions if we do not finally decide what they have to do in the future. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] In fact, if they can't even do social policies, I wonder what the regions are for. [[Applause from Senators Bisonella and Arrigoni.]] At some point we have to say enough. We started by wanting to correct some distortions of the 2001 reform, but then a real counter-reform came out. I call on my fellow Members to reflect on this point and in any case the Group for the Autonomies will vote against the amendment. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u688	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u689	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u690	FINDING, rapporteur. I want to speak because this debate has also raised so many issues and I would like each of you to know what you are voting for in dealing with the amendments that are now before us. First of all, I would like to reassure my fellow Members that we have started precisely from the need to prevent the conflict between the State and the regions which has occurred so far on particularly sensitive issues such as health and education. As my colleagues point out, in the current Constitution, the subjects of health and education protection are subject to concurrent legislation. That is why in dealing with this issue we have considered that we reserve the exclusive competence of the State to determine the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights which must be guaranteed throughout the national territory. We have also said that it belongs to the exclusive competence of the State to issue general and common provisions; common in the sense that they ensure uniformity on national territory, for the protection of health, for food safety and for the protection and safety of work. In the meantime, constitutional jurisprudence in cases of conflict has explicitly told us two things, precisely with health judgments. First of all, he told us that using the term "general standards" actually conferred on the State a pervasive legislative competence also in the areas of the territorial organisation of health care. The second thing that the Constitutional Court has told us is that undoubtedly belong to the regions the planning and organization of health and social services that, in fact, in the text that is before the Chamber, are entrusted to the competence of the Regions, having disappeared the concurrent legislation. Colleagues, I say this precisely in order to prevent any misunderstanding in this House on a subject on which we all have a particular sensitivity. In this sense, Senator Dirindin's amendment merely reiterates what is already written in Article 117 (m) by replying it identically, with a single amendment, in addition to dividing it into letter m) and m-bis, which re-introduces the term "general standards"; an expression which, as we know, was itself the origin of conflict which then the Constitutional Court had to intervene every time to settle. In this sense, I would ask Senator Dirindin to withdraw her amendment. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We would welcome the agenda presented by Senator De Biasi, Senator Bianconi and Senator Romano, which, among other things, is to reaffirm the particular care with which the Senate has written and defended this text, which is only at first reading. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u691	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u692	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u693	DIRINDIN (PD). This afternoon I began by saying that there had been too little discussion on these issues. We have tried to discuss this in a useful way, and we have not had any clarification. It seems to me that the clarifications are all linked to interpretations on which there is also discrepancy in the case law, including the reports that the wise men presented last year. As I said earlier, I appreciate the attention that has finally been paid to this issue this afternoon. I say "finally" and I apologize for the term a little'strong, but it seems to me that otherwise we risked to treat Title V in an absolutely superficial way. Since I believe that each of us has made his own idea, let me just add, to what the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, said very carefully, that in my amendment, in addition to restoring general rules, we have also included social policies. Therefore, in my amendment there are two proposals for amendments, whereas in that of my colleague, Mr Guerra, there is only the amendment concerning social policies and not the reference to the general rules alone. Since we have waited so long, I think we may have come up with an idea, so let us verify what the House thinks. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u694	I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on Amendment 30.46 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u695	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u696	Senator Arrigoni, I think the debate has been broad.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u697	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Given that Amendments 30.46 and 30.47 are identical in the first part, i.e. in point (m), I would ask you to put to the vote only the first part of Amendment 30.46.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u698	Senator Arrigoni, you have been a little behind because Amendment 30.47 has already been changed to agenda G30.700. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.46, tabled by Senator Dirindin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Indigo...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u699	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u700	Excuse me. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u701	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on a matter of principle. Amendment 30.47, Senator Guerra, can turn it into an agenda, but with the permission of all other signatories. We are signatories, so you cannot withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u702	There is an opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that says: In accordance with practice, when the proposer withdraws an amendment to turn it into an agenda pursuant to Rule 95 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the other signatories may not request the vote of the amendment. This is the opinion of the Giunta per il Regolamento of 13 May 2009, reported in note to the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments of Senator De Petris]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.48, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.49. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I asked you a question earlier. I told you that we are tabling amendment 30.47... PRESIDENT. Maybe it's tiredness. I replied by reading a note which is in the Rules of Procedure. It is a decision of the Board for the Rules of Procedure and that we apply, according to a practice approved by the Board for the Rules of Procedure. So I guess I answered, and then I don't know what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u703	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u704	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u705	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out - and I would also say this to those who from the Presidency point of view - that Amendment 30.48 was put to the vote when we were discussing the issue of Amendment 30.47. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u706	Senator Petraglia, on the contrary. We spoke while the vote was open. Let's not try to change things. Please speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u707	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We have not been given time to make an explanation of vote. With Amendment 30.49, which is in full agreement with the amendments of Senators Dirindin and Guerra, we wanted to introduce a further clarification, where it is expected that the minimum levels of performance should be identified. This means that all over the national territory there will have to be an equal minimum standard for everyone, precisely not to create disparities in every region on civil rights, social rights, on issues of social policies, on health, on all those... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u708	Please conclude senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u709	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). It's okay, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He won't finish. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.49, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u710	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u711	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u712	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I tell you in advance, otherwise it is not possible. We call for an explanation of vote on all the amendments. I say this in advance, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Times are running out, really. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The announcement of vote, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u713	It'll be ten seconds for the vote announcement. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.50, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.51 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am booking for the next amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me that Amendment 30.52 is not signed by you. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). So? Can't I make an explanation of vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You said that you would make an explanation of vote for all the amendments to which you are a signatory. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to make an explanation of vote for everyone? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). When I raise my hand, I want to make an explanation of vote, like everyone else does. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You can make an announcement of your vote, because your time is up. You're welcome. [[Comments. Some senators point to the voting board]] Excuse me, the previous vote is still under way. It is not possible to work with continuous interruptions. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.52. Please, Senator, announce your vote. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No, Mr President, I make an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Senator, something to do. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But I do, Mr. President. You can turn off my microphone if you want! [[Senator De Petris abruptly pulls off the microphone, which hits Senator De Cristofaro]] Attention, Senator, who hurts Senator De Cristofaro. We do not want any more violence in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u714	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u715	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u716	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you didn't let me talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But she moved the microphone. BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, give me two minutes: the subject is important and I could not speak at the stage of illustration because I spoke on the order of business, as you will recall. I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs... If you speak for the Mixed Group, you shall take the floor to the parent company De Petris. Let's agree. Senator De Petris, do you or Senator Bocchino intervene for your group? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Great. Senator Bocchino may well speak; he asked for the floor: Talk. Then I will make my explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Bocchino. You are making an explanation of vote for the Mixed Group. There will be no other time. BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). On Amendment 30.52 I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs and the Government. The term 'general and common provisions' is replaced by 'general rules'. I have followed what President Finocchiaro said in the field of health, but in the field of education the opposite has happened, i.e. the judgments of the Constitutional Court have stated that the State has expanded too far in the matter of school size. The rules issued by the State have been declared null, only that in the meantime 1,500 schools and 2,500 directors of general and administrative services (DSGA) have been lost in schools. It is therefore necessary to change the general and common provisions, of which no one knows the meaning (therefore further disputes will arise at the Constitutional Court), and to restore the general rules diction, as was the first formulation of the Government. I therefore call on the rapporteurs to speak again on this amendment and to declare their opposition if they insist on this position. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u717	The rapporteurs pointed out that they confirmed their opinion. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.52 tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 30.53 was an opinion against it, so it turns it into an agenda, Senator Mandelli? If you have prepared the text, I invite you to read it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u718	Mr President, I read the two final lines of the proposal: 'in the application of constitutional principles, to preserve the homogeneity and unity of the models of health care for citizens, which must be understood as reserved to the State for the protection of health'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u719	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u720	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u721	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I would have hoped that what the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, had just said, would be heard. We cannot continue to say that hot water is hot, because everything that has been requested is already in the text. I therefore object to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u722	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G30.53, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.54, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. [[Senator Fucksia points out that she wants to intervene. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.55.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u723	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u724	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u725	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to explain the precedents, but I was unable to speak. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Well yes, I came back invisible; it had already happened days ago, when I held my hand raised for three days to ask for the floor. Excuse me a moment, Mr President, I have hardly ever spoken. It is truly frustrating for a senator, spokesperson for a number of citizens, to be in a Parliament, which should by definition be the place of confrontation, and to be tarnished in the speeches. That is very frustrating, Mr President. However, without going into detail about how the work has been conducted and how the dialogue in this House has been stifled (which I find very serious and penalising also for the result of this pseudo-reform that we are going to bring out), I think these amendments are important and not over-abundant. In fact, we know very well that all the reform of Title V made in 2001, always by majority blows, because this majority has learned in distant times and it is known that the greatest damage to Italy has done just this majority... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u726	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u727	An announcement of vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u728	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, there is one issue that I would like to put to the rapporteurs. This amendment adds, after the words 'food safety', the words 'food quality', because we cannot deal at the level of state competence only with matters relating to a purely food safety matter. There is a general problem of the country, which I believe is the exclusive competence of the State: the question of food sovereignty and therefore quality. I would ask the rapporteurs to add at least the word 'quality', and the amendment will come back later as a specific addition to the word'security'. I say this to the rapporteurs: I believe that this would be very important for the protection of our agri-food system and our agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u729	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.55, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.56.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u730	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u731	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u732	Parent (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 30.56, with the hope that a climate of political-institutional cohesion will be created between the State and the regions in the area of employment, which will no longer allow us to have such great differences in national territory and also to have dispersal of resources. On the job we need a great responsibility of the institutional levels, because it is the real emergency of the country. I have the floor to say that I withdraw Amendments Nos 30.72 and 30.134 and I am announcing the presentation of an agenda which brings together the two amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u733	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u734	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u735	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, however, in dealing with the following amendment 30.61, the same subject dealt with by Amendment 30.56 by Senator Parente, I would have liked to have withdrawn it, recalling that overall the whole Commission - I believe that I interpret the views of all or almost all colleagues - would have liked to see the transfer of skills in the field of work, according to the formula 'protection and safety of work', from the regions to the state. This is mainly in order to organize a homogeneous and integrated network of services throughout the national territory. I therefore agree with the remarks made earlier by my colleague, Mr Parente, so that, possibly with a rapidly drawn up agenda, we can stress the importance of loyal cooperation between the State and the regions. Unfortunately, the experience of active policies, in addition to everything necessarily separated from those passive ones, which are within the competence of the State, has given very negative results throughout the Italian experience from the establishment of the Regions, with few laudable exceptions. I would remind you that Mr Calderoli used, in favour of regional competences, what is written in many taverns, where it is said that because of few people there is no credit for anyone. I am afraid that, with regard to work, the opposite can be said, that thanks to the few, the few regional autonomy or, in the case of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, provincial, it will end up giving credit to everyone. I hope and insist that the loyal collaboration, which through the law delegation on the job we are trying to promote, will overcome the obvious and license inefficiencies that the services above all public to the job present in a very large part of the national territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u736	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.57 tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.58.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u737	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u738	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u739	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u740	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.59, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.60, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.61 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.62, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.63, tabled by Senators Barani and Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.64.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u741	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u742	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u743	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I must speak on the order of business. In the afternoon I sent you a request by letter. In it, I asked for the urgent convocation of a group leader in view of the data relating to GDP, made public just this morning by ISTAT, which certify the state of recession in our country for the second consecutive quarter. I would ask you to convene the Conference of Presidents of the Groups as soon as possible and I would remind you here that the effects of this situation should be assessed as soon as possible in the Senate Chamber. I therefore wrote to you that it is my intention to propose a change to the timetable for the work in force in this group, in order to deal immediately with the examination of measures relating to economic, labour-related initiatives which have long been deposited in this Senate by both my own and other parliamentary groups. I am referring, in detail, to the measures on anti-corruption, on the delegation of labour, on the income of citizenship and, above all, to what he referred to as a recommendation from the Council of the European Union to Italy. If you give me time and don't interrupt me, Mr President, I would like to explain why this is an issue on which I absolutely want this House to reflect. In July 2014, the European Union recommended that we strengthen the budgetary measures, strengthen the strategy, proceed unequivocally with debt reduction, assess the effectiveness of the recent reduction in the tax wedge, but above all increase the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures, monitor the effects of the reforms taken in order to increase the efficiency of civil justice in a timely manner, and I stress this, because, if possible, it is even more serious, it called for strengthening the provision of loans to the real economy, promoting the access of businesses, especially medium-sized and small-sized ones, to non-bank financing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, please conclude. PETROCELLI (M5S). Finally, Mr President, allow me to finish. The European Union asked us in the delegation of work to assess by the end of 2014 the effects of labour market reforms on job creation, to work towards full social protection for the unemployed, to strengthen the link between active and passive labour market policies and finally to present a detailed roadmap for action by September 2014. Now it seems opportune and urgent to convene the group leader to put these real issues and work... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u744	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u745	PETROCELLI (M5S). ...and work as much as is necessary in August, even after August 8, because the country deserves it, beyond constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the M5S and NCD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u746	Senator Petrocelli, you made a request for a calendar change, and as you know the pre-announcement of a calendar change is done at the end of the session, so you can repeat your request at that time. As regards the request to convene the group leader, there are already contacts, after I have received his letter, with the minister responsible, to try to obtain his willingness to come to the Chamber. After that we will convene the Conference of the Leaders knowing that there is availability. PETROCELLI (M5S). Before or after August 8th? I hope it's before August 8th!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u747	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u748	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u749	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, this amendment is intended to restore the general rule on education and I would like to ask the rapporteurs something. This amendment does not want to do anything different from what the rapporteurs wanted to do with Amendment 30.5000, with which they proposed the deletion of the words 'general and common provisions' as regards the environment and the ecosystem. Since I have read in the specialized press that many experts have complained that the reference to general and common provisions will create disputes, both in the environmental and ecosystem sectors and in the field of education, I would like to ask a question to the rapporteurs, who I hope will answer. Why have the rapporteurs given a negative opinion on an amendment which does the same thing as an amendment which they have tabled, even if in the field of education, where - I repeat - we have had so many disputes that have abolished the state's overpower in the field of school size? I believe that the rapporteurs have a duty to give me an answer in order to justify their opinion against this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs confirm the opposite opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u750	Mr President, I not only confirm the opposite opinion, but I say - on the contrary - that if we were to lay down general rules on education, as constitutional jurisprudence taught us, we would certify, we would consecrate and authorize exactly what Senator Bocchino calls the state's overpower in peripheral education.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u751	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.64 tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.65.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u752	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u753	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u754	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are appalled at the way in which the sitting is being handled. A Holding Company has requested the convening of a Conference of Leaders, arguing its request on the basis of commitments that our State and our Parliament must comply with by September. I think if President Zanda got up, we'd probably already be in the meeting room. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u755	Divine Senator, we have an agenda that we haven't changed yet, just as we haven't changed the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u756	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give you the floor on the agenda. DIVINE (LN-Aut). If it is not an issue on the agenda, the speaker... This is not an issue on the agenda. DIVINE (LN-Aut). President, you must convene a Conference of Leaders or at least hear the views of the Leaders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already told you that we've asked for the government's availability. DIVINE (LN-Aut). But if you haven't heard from anyone, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what you say. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We understand that his qualities are immense, but we didn't think he had the will! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I invite you to desist from continuing. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Or what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Otherwise nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u757	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u758	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u759	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like briefly to point out the risk we are facing on this issue. The question of general and common provisions has been raised. From this point of view we want to make a constructive proposal here. We know that the reform aims to reduce conflicts. Today there is the category of general rules, and a new one is introduced, that of general and common provisions. The proposal is to make use of a consolidated category in many systems, that is, of general principles. Very clear. If, among other things, we introduce the term "dispositions," which is more specific than "norms," we certainly extend the links of state intervention. The consequence is that this new category will be defined in its specific content by the Court, necessarily increasing conflicts. In very few cases, law is an exact science, almost never, but I am told that in this case the consequences are largely predictable, they are certain. At least we know what we are going to vote for: more conflicts. We can do that, but we need to know.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u760	I demand to speak for an announcement of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u761	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u762	MARTON (M5S). I listened to Senator Palermo and convinced me, so I won't take the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u763	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.65, tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.66.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u764	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u765	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u766	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, with this amending proposal, I would ask you to include, after the expression 'general and common provisions on education', the phrase 'and the right to study'. We heard, even a few moments ago, a fellow Senator of the PD who pointed out that the right to study is an even wider matter, which in her definition broadens what was once simply the concept of education. When we talk about the right to study we understand the right to truly have access to a complete and effective education and training course for students. Bearing in mind that the right to study is a matter closely linked to the value that is given to the study locally, I consider this concept particularly relevant, in order to ensure that within the definition in the Constitution passes the idea that education must be accompanied by the real guarantee of the right to study.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u767	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u768	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u769	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, in full agreement with what my colleague, Mrs Mussini, has just said, I support the amendment and call for it to be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you agree, Senator Mussini? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u770	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u771	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u772	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to endorse this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you agree, Senator Mussini? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u773	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u774	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u775	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, in principle we should say that Mrs Mussini is right. The trouble is that if we were to bring the matter within the competence of the State, in this country - cuts here, cuts there - no one would have the right to study anymore, which would be hacked and mowed. There are regions that are rather careful, that manage to put a ceiling on the right to study and allow the Constitution to be respected: the needy and deserving, that is, must be allowed access to the higher educational paths up to the university. This is allowed, dear colleague, because there are regions that can do it: what little works in this country we do not give to the state, because it knows how to destroy everything. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, you've already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u776	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u777	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u778	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I disagree with my Group and with Senator Montevecchi because this amendment does not only raise the lexical question of replacing the word 'education' with the expression 'right to study', which is included in the reform proposal as one of the exclusive regional competences, in which I agree to leave it without taking it among those of the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] For this reason, I will not vote as proposed by Senators Mussini and Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u779	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.66, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.67, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.69, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.70 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G30.70 by Senator Puglisi: as soon as the text is available, we will assess it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 30.71, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.72 has been withdrawn and transformed, together with amendment 30.134, into an agenda. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 30.73, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word 'instruction'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 30.73 and Amendment 30.74 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 30.75, tabled by Senator DePetris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.76.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u780	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u781	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u782	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, this amendment is crucial in terms of teaching continuity. Not only is it fundamental, the continuity of teaching and the integration of children with disabilities is vital. I would ask you, please, to vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u783	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.76, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.77.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u784	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u785	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u786	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, bringing supplementary pensions under the competence of the State means dismantling a system that started a few decades ago and really works. I do not know how many, but several regions have set up the supplementary regional pension funds. They have therefore set aside important shares of TFR because the categories of trade, industry, crafts, in addition to the public sector, have put part of the TFR and part of the provisions, of the deductions. To say that now all this is gone and passes under the competence of the State, it means to dismantle one of the few things that worked in the field of supplementary pensions. We think it is a serious mistake because this amendment allows us to save that system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u787	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u788	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u789	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise quickly for a dissenting explanation of vote in order to stress how important it is to focus our attention on an issue that concerns the future of all of us. In many regions there are the main and most important experiences of organising supplementary pension funds, compulsory or optional, which consist of the provision of important resources for workers. We are moving towards a social security system that will leave us less and less protected and will reduce us poorer than what we have paid. On the other hand, this is a part that we must protect in order to guarantee the future of our citizens, particularly those who work and who in this way can see their pensions secured.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u790	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.77, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.78.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u791	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u792	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u793	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 30.78, 30.132 and 30.140 not before I have pointed out how on the subject of active labour policies, including the comments of other colleagues, the wording of the provision of state and regional competence does not seem satisfactory to me. The wording I had put forward was to give the state general and common provisions for active policies to allocate programming and organisation to the regions. We did not want to consider this as other proposals. I am confident that the various readings will be able to put this question back on track.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u794	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.79, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.80 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.81 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.82, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.83 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.84.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u795	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u796	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u797	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Since an amendment by the rapporteurs has already been voted on, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u798	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.85.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u799	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u800	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u801	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise on Amendments 30.85 and 30.86. We would like to leave to the state the strategic planning of foreign trade and all related functions. It is clear, in fact, how fundamental it is that there is a general approach in the country, especially with regard to foreign trade. In the regions and in the border provinces you really have the measure of judgment and the perception of how trade changes in real time. Nowadays there are situations that create - and we see it precisely in these months - different conditions in daily evolution. It is of course perceived by those in the territory who, starting from the chambers of commerce, employ so much and so much work and resources makes available precisely to promote this trade abroad. I am referring in particular to those provinces bordering on foreign countries, where there is the problem of the flight of companies to those areas beyond the border in which favourable conditions are found in the field of work. The problem is greater if the programming is made - alas - aseptically at the central level of the State, because - let me be honest - you do not have the meter and the thermometer of how the economy takes place at the moment. From personal experience this worries us very much. With these amendments we want to facilitate this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u802	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.85, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.86, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.87.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u803	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u804	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u805	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to declare my abstention in the previous vote, because the content of the two amendments 30.85 and 30.86 is different: on the one hand add and on the other hand remove.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u806	They are two alternative hypotheses: he could approve one and not the other. In any case, thank you for your intervention. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.87, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.88, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.5000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u807	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u808	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u809	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, I rise to speak on Amendments Nos 30,89 and 30,90, which tend essentially to bring the whole of the environment under the aegis of the State, which will therefore have exclusive competence. They are amendments which basically correct what is contained in the text that came out of the Commission, which lends itself to a series of ambiguities. We know how much these have weighed so far in the matter of conflict of powers. I would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, who has grasped the meaning of these amendments and has proposed an amendment which essentially summarises the whole issue and does so by bringing it back to the right borders, among other things, by reaffirming the unity between the concepts of landscape and the environment, as correctly enshrined in Article 9 of the Constitution. Therefore, in accepting the wording proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, I announce the withdrawal of amendments 30,89 and 30,90. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u810	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u811	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u812	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the withdrawal of amendment 30.93 and to appreciate the content of the wording proposed by amendment 30.5000, tabled by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u813	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u814	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u815	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are very opposed to what this amendment proposes, which further centralizes other matters within the State. As far as cultural and landscape heritage is concerned, in the text that came out of the Commission at the head of the State, there was only protection and now you want to include enhancement. As for the environment and the ecosystem in the Commission's text on the part of the State, there were only general and common provisions. You want to take everything away from the regions, and this for the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group - and I hope not only for us - is unacceptable. The adoption of this amendment would further confirm the centralist aspect of this reform. The vote of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group on this amendment will therefore be against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u816	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u817	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u818	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). In the Commission, including through the amendments, we raised the issue by arguing that it was absolutely necessary to bring environmental protection and the ecosystem closely linked to the protection of the landscape to the head of the State, including in our Constitution. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we consider the amendment tabled by the positive rapporteur. I would recommend only a different punctuation, replace the semicolon with a comma. Perhaps it would be more grammatically correct. [[Senator Calderoli nods.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u819	You're against punctuation, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u820	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Yeah, that one, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u821	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u822	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u823	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the President-in-Office of the Council two weeks ago already offered an anticipation of how he would manage the side effects of this measure. What did President Renzi do? He gave an example by answering the questions of the "Corriere della Sera" about two weeks ago about the "unblocking-Italy" plan. In fact, the Head of Government declares: it is impossible to go and talk about energy and environment in Europe if you do not in the meantime exploit the energy and environment you have in Sicily and in Basilicata. I am ashamed - says Renzi - to go and talk about the interconnections between France and Spain, about the Gazprom agreement or about South Stream when I could double the percentage of oil and gas in Italy and give work to 40,000 people and it is not done because of the fear of the reaction of three or four committees. This is a clear example of how he would handle the situation... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u824	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u825	PETROCELLI (M5S). You've taken my word for the umpteenth time. I said that this is a clear example of how the President of the Council would handle the situation: it would take away the legitimate voice of the territorial committees, which are the representation of the regions and local self-governments, and in the field of energy this is truly a disaster. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u826	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u827	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u828	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we are not convinced of this amendment because we believe that it is one thing to leave the protection of cultural and landscape goods to the State, but also to take away from the regions the possibility of enhancing or promoting these goods, which should belong to everyone, seems to us to be too much. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u829	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 30.5000, tabled by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes amendments 30.9.97 (text 2) and 30.117. Amendments 30,89, 30,90 and 30,93 have been withdrawn. AIROLA (M5S). President, the Senator Secretary was chatting during the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. AIROLA (M5S). It's not okay! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not okay for you to take the floor without me giving it to you. I'll call you back to order. AIROLA (M5S). I'm the one who's calling the order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is on the record that the appeal to order is made. AIROLA (M5S). He's laughing, too. It's an insult. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment 30.9.98.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u830	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u831	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u832	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I withdraw Amendments 30.98 and 30.126.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u833	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u834	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u835	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, what happened to Amendment 30.97 (text 2)? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Perhaps I have not been clear: it is foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 30.5000. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). This amendment actually had a part to play in the protection of wildlife, something a little different from the previous one. It's not foreclosed because it's different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u836	The amendment adopted replaced the whole point (s). Amendment 30.98 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 30.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u837	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u838	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u839	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and my many years of experience as city planning commissioner in my country. Speaking of the government of the territory, subtracting it from the competing power and giving it now to the practically exclusive power of the State is a way of defrauding the Regions of a very important power. If you read well it remains as exclusive competence to the State for general and common provisions. At this point there will be almost no power for the Regions: if we are to talk about the configuration of a permit to constitute, a plan of spatial planning or an implementation plan, it is obvious that this can be considered a common provision. We must bear in mind that our state is made up of very different territorial realities and the treatment of urban planning has a differentiation between regions that must be taken into account We therefore believe that it must be removed from the exclusive power of the State and sent back to the Regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u840	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.9.9, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.100 has been withdrawn. It's 8:00 and I think we deserve an hour's rest. [[Applause. Senator Bignami points out that she wants to intervene.]] Wouldn't Senator Bignami agree?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u841	Mr President, I would like to make a 30-second speech at the end of the sitting. I was thinking about old grandmothers when they had coats in winter that only came out when it was snowing and there was bad weather.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u842	This isn't the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u843	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). There's a relationship. So they put themselves on fire and hid... president. No, look, there's a suspension, Senator Bignami.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u844	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u845	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u846	CASINI (PI). Mr President, I am speaking quickly. Since there's an hour of interruption... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u847	Quiet, let's talk. The senator made a proposal for an unacceptable end-of-session speech, so we rejected it. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] Senator Bignami, if you have any other proposals, please let us know. Wait a minute, Senator Casini. Let's hear what else Senator Bignami has to offer. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I wanted to finish, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I thought that was your proposal. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). No. It's just that I wanted it to be like the old coat of the Prime Minister's chair, since he's never here. So the government is freer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it was to say that, he could Save it. Please, Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u848	Mr President, since there is an hour's rest, I would ask you to reflect on the progress of our work because, since we all know that it is a busy week, I do not see why we have to have the limit tonight to finish within a certain hour. I believe that we can move forward safely, following the decision of the Conference of Leaders, to speed up our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u849	I suspend the sitting until 9 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 20.01 p.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u850	I communicate that it has been referred to the Commissions reunited 10a and 13a, in the referent, with the opinions of the Commissions la, 2a, 4a, 5a, 6a, 7a, 8a, 9a and 14a the bill of conversion to law, with modifications, of the decree-law 24 june 2014, n. 91, in matter of competitiveness (A.S. 1541-B), already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. The above-mentioned Commissions are now authorized to supplement their agendas in order to enable the Commissions to report to the Assembly as early as tomorrow's sitting on Thursday, 7 August. Amendments to the measure will have to be tabled by 12 noon tomorrow. The time taken to examine the draft law has been allocated for a total of 2 hours - including explanations of vote - attributing 10 minutes to the rapporteur, the government and each parliamentary group; Five minutes are reserved for dissenters.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u851	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u852	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[The Divine Senator nods that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u853	I would like it to be clear that the times have been quotad and are now exhausted. Then act quickly; the microphone will automatically deactivate after one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u854	You have the floor, Senator Bocchino. BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I use this minute to contribute to the debate with President Finocchiaro on this general rule speech. I simply repeat that judgment No 147 of 2012 considered constitutionally unlawful the reduction of the school network because it essentially operated on the sizing of schools and the current text of the Constitution has general rules. Therefore, if we leave the current text, a well-established constitutional jurisprudence will remove any ambiguity regarding the division of tasks with regard to education. On the other hand, if we change into general and common provisions, as the text provides for at the moment, we will generate new disputes that will have major repercussions and will cause great inconvenience not only to education, but also to the government of the territory as the subject of this amendment. Therefore, once again I call on the rapporteurs to review their opinion on this amendment and I am voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u855	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u856	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u857	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are all alarmed that with this new wording, general and common provisions, we essentially allow the State, in this case the only Chamber that will legislate, to establish uniform rules of detail as well, in fact frustrating the regional competence in matters that were now well-established, such as environment, tourism and sporting activities. But does it seem to you that the State has these common rules in these matters? We see a very dangerous re-centralisation; also because, if we read one of the last paragraphs of this rewriting of Article 117, where it is admitted that, on a proposal from the Government, with the law of the State, we can intervene in matters that are not reserved for exclusive competence, that is, a re-bordering. [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u858	Divine Senator, you can deliver your explanation of vote in writing. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let me finish! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.101, tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u859	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u860	Colleagues, please do not exceed the minute for explanations of vote, because you know that the time is up. The microphone will automatically disable; it is a clarification that applies to everyone. You have the floor, Senator Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u861	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, since we have one minute and you do not want us to scream and scream, I would ask you, before we proceed to the vote on the various amendments, to see if anyone has a raised hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u862	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u863	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u864	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, if you had any complacency at least to let the sentences go, one would not have to... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I told you that you can give the explanation of vote in writing, so you can stay on the record of the democratic path. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). There are no explanations of vote in writing! Nobody prepares them. CRIMI (M5S). Seventy-five hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, please don't scream in this House. Let Senator Divine speak. DIVINE (LN-Aut). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, I agree, a minute from now. DIVINE (LN-Aut). It is allowed that the State exercises exclusive competence also in matters that do not fall under Article 117 (2) of the Constitution, according to a protection of legal unity (which God only knows what it means: are there two legal systems or more legal systems?) or, even worse, to protect the national interest. We ask ourselves: who decides? What is the national interest? Because if the national interest is decided how the work is decided and how the work is going in this House, God saves us and looks at us from those who decide at this time what the national interest is! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u865	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 30.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u866	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u867	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u868	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, this amendment concerns the fact that all energy matters are covered by the competence of the State. When the old Title V of the Constitution was still in force, you adopted the so-called Marzano law, which produced 25,000 megawatts of new power plants; making a big mess. If we now bring the matter under the jurisdiction of the State and do not introduce any counterweight, an even bigger mess can happen. So, I think matter should stay the way it used to be. We need to reflect on these aspects and vote on all of them. I hope I was in the minute: I obey! [[Senator Divine repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u869	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 30.103, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(v) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 30.103 and Amendments 30.104 and 30.105 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.106.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u870	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u871	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u872	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, do we have to jump on the benches to show us? He sees us perfectly and ignores us. She's looking at us and ignoring us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Make an explanation of vote. I saw her. DIVINE (LN-Aut). She was looking at my face when I asked her for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm giving it to him. DIVINE (LN-Aut). You opened and closed the vote. Shame on you! Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, don't you dare. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You know that the time has already been exceeded, and this one-minute choice is outside the times we have defined in this House democratically. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). What a democracy!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u873	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u874	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u875	CIOFFI (M5S). This amendment tends to introduce into the Constitution something that perhaps should not be there, namely to hold a public debate every time we talk about a large infrastructure. However, as you always say these things but never do them, if we do not give the citizens the opportunity to verify that the choices of politics are congruent with the general public interest, we do a bad service. Then it will be the case, as always, that you start to think about what the approach must be. We therefore ask you to include in the Constitution the public debate, which already exists in France. As I said before, given the progress of this Parliament, I obey! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u876	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u877	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u878	DIVINE (LN-Aut). The matter of energy is one of those subjects that, if managed well at the level of the Region, have important repercussions on the territory: from the BIMs, to the corporate structures constituted at the regional level for the management of the energy, to the territories (maybe in the North more than in the South, where the water and the hydroelectric energy have been exploited over the years). What does the state want? Do you want to expropriate the local authorities of that well-managed autonomous resource over the years? We can't accept that. The state cannot tell us: you have managed a good heritage, built transport infrastructure, dams, etc., with the associated risks on the heads of our citizens, and then take everything away from us. Energy's a big booty, we're taking it to the state's responsibilities. CRIMI (M5S). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u879	Senator Crimes later. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Cioffi has already spoken for your group. AIROLA (M5S). He's in dissension! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.106, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Please don't raise your voice, please. AIROLA (M5S). It's not okay! You have to let us talk! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] It's no use yelling. Senator Crosio asked to speak. I give the floor to Senator Crosio and then to Senator Crimi. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Explanations of vote in dissent must be forwarded to the Presidency. [[Senator Crosio points out that he wants to intervene.]] Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I invite you to sit down. If you don't allow Senator Crosio to intervene, let's proceed to the vote. AIROLA (M5S). You have to be ashamed! Fascist! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please don't talk to the presidency like this. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] I call you to order, senators, and that's the second time I've done it. Explanations of vote, in favour and in dissent, are permitted for one minute. Senator Crimes, since Senator Cioffi had already intervened for the Group, you had to declare that he was intervening in dissent. CRIMI (M5S). But I said it! AIROLA (M5S). He said he wanted to intervene in dissent! You're worse than Fat! [[Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] Shame on you! Filthy! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.107, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.108.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u880	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u881	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u882	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We have tabled the amendment before because we are throwing away a heritage, built over the years in the Regions and Provinces, as far as integrated planning of the territory is concerned. Bringing the example of the Lombardy Region, the territorial plan of the Region, has made available very important resources and has planned the territory judicially; consequently, as a cascade, the territorial plans of coordination of the Provinces have modulated their planning in this sense. I wonder, then, what will happen tomorrow. All this matter will be brought back to the state. But I wonder, as a technician, how this will happen, even physically. It will be a big problem, because the integrated planning between the Regions and the Provinces has produced, always bringing the example of the Lombardy Region, a construction of the territory really targeted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u883	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u884	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u885	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business to ask how, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure which have not yet been printed, the times available are divided. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The time available is already over. NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, let me finish. Two days ago, President Grasso had the opportunity to say that he would give only one minute to the Mixed Group, and not two, because they had already passed by two hours. I then want to know who is given the extra two hours and who is given less minutes. Since it is said that we must deliver our dissenting votes in writing, there is a clear discrimination here. By the way, my amendment 30.9.92 could not be included in the rapporteur's amendment because it did not put the subject of sport and tourism at the head of the state. Therefore, we should have been able to make an explanation of vote before because, perhaps, those who voted against would have voted in favour of my amendment. I asked for the floor, but President Grasso didn't give it to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u886	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u887	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u888	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, within this scaffolding, which is called the Senate of Self-Governments, large transport networks, such as the basic wide-area services, allude not only to an efficient network of services but even form part, in the modernity of the third millennium, of the fundamental goods that an organized society has. We think there should be more than a correlation with regional systems, otherwise it would take a big step backwards than a modern country, as is often said by filling its mouth. It is in fact on these things that a country stands up and in a position to compete with the great challenges, especially in the large metropolitan areas... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u889	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u890	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u891	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, in order to calm things down a bit, would you please tell me what is the article that states that the request to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent by the Group should be handed over to the Presidency first? It seems to me that the Rules of Procedure are not written anywhere that we have to hand over... President. In order to allow the Presidency to harmonise working time and thus to respect this aspect. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). Wait! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He got the answer. Do you need to make an explanation of vote? MARTON (M5S). No, I'm not done, ma'am. Since we have been silent for three days, I would like to understand why I did not understand it, all this haste, so much so as not to give the opportunity to intervene to declare a dissenting vote, as Senator Crimi asked!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u892	Let's record your speech and proceed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.108, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.109. CRIMI (M5S). (Addressing to the Senators of the PD Group). And you guys get out! Get out at the moment of the secret vote! Cowards!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u893	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u894	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u895	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, the amendments that talk about strategic infrastructure are also important. I wonder, in bringing back to the State certain situations that affect strategic infrastructures what will happen, because today there are Regions that have put in place program agreements between Regions, Provinces and entities of the State like ANAS, for example those signed by the Lombardy Region (and excuse me if I always quote the Lombardy Region). Tomorrow we will find ourselves in a promiscuous, very difficult situation and what will we do? We're gonna get the state in the running? It really gets very complicated. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments which, from this point of view, should bring the competence back to those who started this important planning, and consequently the realization of the works, among other things, using resources that come from the territory (and then we will talk about the resources that come from the territory with regard to the planning and construction of infrastructures).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u896	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u897	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u898	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, the one in the vote is an amendment that I signed first. Obviously, I cannot understand the meaning of the norm with which we go to bring back to national level strategic infrastructures that impact decisively and substantially on a territory. It doesn't make any sense, even in the light of what happened today. Today, before the pause in our work, I went to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, where a meeting of the Turin-Lion Task Force was taking place. I asked to participate, and I wasn't admitted to the table. How is it possible that, on the one hand, the whole issue of strategic infrastructure should be brought back to the state and, on the other hand, if a senator wants to participate in the work, he is not admitted to the table? On the other side, because... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u899	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u900	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u901	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u902	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I believe that over and over again in this House we have spoken about what we have called hydrogeological disruption, leading it also to a humanisation of the territory that has been to a very large extent devastating. I have had the opportunity to say more than once that those who best protect the territory are those who live it, those who may even have positions that may not be shared immediately in a national strategy, but that the territory knows it better and that therefore are in a position to recognize its characteristics and what human interventions the territory can bear or not. Now, I think it is very appropriate for the administration of the territory to remain close to the competence that concerns precisely everything that that territory can afford... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u903	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u904	For a dissenting explanation of vote, I guess.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u905	CRIMI (M5S). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And for what? CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask that Amendment 30.109 be voted for separate parts: the first part up to the words 'transport' and then the part consisting of the words 'navigation'. In fact, I believe that navigation can continue to be maintained as an infrastructure of national competence, while transport infrastructure can't. Therefore, I disagree with my Group on the navigation part and ask that it be put to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u906	Colleagues, there is no discussion about this. You know that. I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote on Amendment 30.109. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.109, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Protests of the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). This is worse than a dictatorship! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. Please. CRIMI (M5S). President, call me back, call everyone back!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u907	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u908	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u909	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, we had already voted on Amendment 30.108. Amendment 30.109 is identical and I wanted to warn the Presidency not to vote on it. On the other hand, we have had an unnecessary vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u910	The proposal for a vote was earlier. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.110.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u911	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u912	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u913	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 30.110 seeks to bring the development of state property under the control of the State. It might be interesting to do this because we know, just to give an example of how the State values state property, that concessions to the beaches are paid €1.3 per year per square metre. Ask yourself how much you pay for the umbrella! It would be good for the State to keep these situations under control in order to really enhance the state property, otherwise we will never value them, we will never get the money that others always make. If the State keeps these assets under its control and values them in an effective and profound way, perhaps we will succeed in ensuring that the State values the goods from an economic point of view. And, as I said before, I obey!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u914	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u915	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u916	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say that we are going to vote against this amendment precisely because of the absurdity of wanting to bring back to the State the valorisation of state property. I would remind you that in this House we have approved state federalism precisely because the state is unable to cope with the protection of its state property. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the State has that protection. We vote strongly against this amendment because there are regions that still manage with small savings to protect their heritage. The state doesn't have any money for its citizens anymore, let alone protect the state property. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u917	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u918	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u919	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, Mrs Bisinella has convinced me and I shall therefore vote against the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u920	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.110, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.111, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.112.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u921	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u922	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u923	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are opposed to the amendment with regard to all the competences that must be brought back to the State. We are particularly concerned, for example, about the hydrogeological planning plans developed in the regions with great interest and competence. Among other things, I would like to remind you that these hydrogeological plans are linked to double-wire with the security systems monitored on the territory with reference to civil protection plans. Therefore, in the valley bottom areas where areas to be relocated have been identified as being at great risk of exondation and what else is worrying that the planning comes back to the state. And since the experiences that come from the past tell us every day that from this point of view those who are on the territory have the thermometer of judgment regarding the plan... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u924	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u925	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u926	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Guerra first of all to be able to sign Amendment 30.112 in his first signature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Guerra agrees? Mr Warra (PD). Yes. PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you. Secondly, I will of course be voting in favour of this amendment because here there is a fundamental principle, which should be applied in every branch of the State: inertia. In the event of inertia, some other arm of the state should be provided. In this case, it is important to vote in favour of this amendment because, in the event of state inertia under certain circumstances, regional law can still intervene. This is a principle... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u927	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u928	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u929	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I shall withdraw Amendment No 30.113, not without emphasising the President. This is Amendment 30.112. Anyway, we learn about his retreat. Mr Pagliari (PD). But let me say that the expression 'general and common provisions' is misunderstanding and contradictory and can be interpreted in several ways. Without precise rules in the Constitution, disputes over attribution conflicts will not be lost.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u930	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u931	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u932	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, in view of the obnoxiousness that we have included in Article 117 that the State can always intervene in matters which are not reserved for its exclusive legislation, Amendment 30.112 is a counterattack, an opposition that says that if this rule applies to the State, it must also apply to the regions. If it is the inert State in matters within its competence, rather than leaving a legislative vacuum, we give the Regions the possibility to fill the gap, albeit with yielding rules. This first-signed amendment by Senator Guerra is really very clever and I hope it will not be rejected because it is one of the few good things we have read so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u933	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.112, tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.113 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u934	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u935	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u936	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I understand that there is a great deal of haste in this House, but he had asked Mr Uras to speak and those of us who wanted to speak, since we are part of the Mixed Group, did not speak; but you did not give him the floor. Therefore, I invite you and the Secretaries to look closely at why we are talking here about the possibility of expressing ourselves. If we do not want to express ourselves then we have the rapporteurs make an amendment and we do the constitutional reforms in the deliberating, so here we get out of this trouble. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u937	Senator Uras, did you ask for the floor? I apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u938	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u939	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u940	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I accept Amendment No 30.113, which was first signed by Senator Pagliari and I ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u941	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u942	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u943	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I was wondering whether we should vote on Amendment 30,114 at the moment, which, in relation to the legislative procedure, is closely related to Article 10, which in turn refers to Article 70 of the Constitution. Make clear references to voting before the Senate and then the House with a two-thirds majority. It seems to me inappropriate to vote on it now that we have not yet dealt with Article 10 which is so important and whose examination has been suspended pending clarification and deepening. I therefore call for the provision of amendment 30.114.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u944	Now we have to vote on Amendment 30.113. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.113, tabled by Senator Pagliari and other senators, withdrawn by the proposers and made by Senator Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.114 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Having been confirmed the opinion of the rapporteurs, there is no provision. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.115.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u945	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u946	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u947	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to address my colleagues in the Mixed SEL Group. If you do not start to put the point at least on your amendments that are supported you do not allow us to understand them well. Having to read and vote in a minute you can't understand anything anymore. We therefore invite the presenters to explain them. We believe that Amendment 30.115 is essential. It is because in addition to giving the state general rules, we are now also talking about common general rules that flatten all differences between regions. Since it will be the state that legislates on everything, to say that beyond the general rules the application, that is, the detailed rules or the particular ones, must remain in the hands of the Regions, I think we must at least say. On these subjects you will see how many disputes will arise between the... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u948	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u949	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u950	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I agree with the demands made by my colleague from the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. In fact, where we talk about general standards, we do not understand what follows from the point of view of the regions. Amendment 30.115 makes it clear that the regions will be able to intervene as a result of the general rules with regard to the supplementary part of the specification. Otherwise, it almost seems that every law of the State, whether it be general rules, specific rules or special rules, can in no way be integrated or detailed by the Regions. That is why I believe that we should vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u951	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u952	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u953	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I am speaking to announce the vote against this amendment. It may be for my lack of familiarity with matters pertaining to the different function assigned to the State and the Regions, but I believe that if the State has exclusive competence in any matter and has issued general rules it is always the competence of the State to issue implementing rules, explanatory or supplementary. I do not know if the case can be fitting, what happens from the point of view of increasing spending on the periphery. Just think of the supplementary contracts of doctors of general medicine or other categories starting from... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u954	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u955	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u956	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, before I start my speech, let me say one thing: we are all curious to see the synographical reports because because you cut the word I do not know if we will be able to express a thought... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I also said that the surgery can be attached. AIROLA (M5S). What about arm surgery? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Since a colleague was not allowed to speak in an explanation of vote on Senator Guerra's very important amendment, an explanation of this amendment was rightly requested. With the amendments voted on earlier and with the Commission's text, when it comes to the exclusive competence of the State in certain matters, we have profoundly changed the old Article 117 by almost always adding the general rules. Now, in order to avoid that there may continue to be, in my opinion, disputes, the amendment has the simple purpose - as in part that of my colleague Pagliari voted earlier - to specify that there are general rules, but then there is a competence of the Regions on the particular or specific rules of state discipline, as is normal. Let me give you an example. We have talked about this many times: there is the national law on soil consumption that gives a number of parameters; it is clear that then it will be the Regions that will have to make rules that are further applied and explanatory of the national law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u957	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u958	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u959	VACCIANO (M5S). Madam President, I have listened carefully to Mr Crimi's motives and to Mr De Petris' explanation, but I do not agree, although I understand the importance of that. Having made a choice of some kind, I wouldn't want to go back to the previous situation. There could be a conflict induced by an amendment of this kind because the competences of the State and the Regions would again overlap generating endless litigation. The limit between what must be defined by the Region and what has already been defined by the State is not so clear and defined as to be able to guarantee that an endless series of problems and disputes that, we know, would not be good for citizens. My position is in dissension from that expressed by Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u960	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.115, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.116, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.117 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 30.5000. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.118.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u961	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u962	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u963	DIVINE (LN-Aut). The whole of Article 117 has been rewritten: the State no longer wants competing powers and establishes for itself the general and common principles on which it will intervene substantially in all matters. Nor should the Presidency have accepted Amendment 30.118, because we are basically going back to talking again about competing matters. Having been admitted, we must express ourselves on it. We continue to say that the production and transport of electricity must remain where it is. Regions and autonomous provinces that have made purchases, who have asked for sacrifices to their citizens by giving up water, creating basins, also having a danger, because a basin above the head... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u964	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u965	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u966	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, in line with the previous amendments we have proposed, we are putting the issue of energy production, transport and distribution as a central and fundamental system of a modern state plant. In this context, the system of regions can only play a fundamental role, also in its autonomy of elaboration and organization of the network and choices, in competition and within a framework where the country has lines of development coherence that are an element of integration and qualification of the fabric of regional autonomy. In this sense you have to put in great harmony and harmony these dimensions, otherwise you go on... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u967	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u968	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u969	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, please help me. When you put an amendment to the vote, do you announce in advance whether your rejection precludes others? Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Definitely. It had already been said before.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u970	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u971	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u972	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would just like to point out in this regard that the region from which I come and where I was elected, Veneto, was endowed a few years ago - the only Region of Italy - by virtue of the competing matter of a regasifier, which can operate for a few years guaranteeing 70% of the energy consumption of Veneto. And I am referring to thousands and thousands of companies that absorb energy. In this way we will prevent other regions, which in future will be able to implement infrastructure and networks of this kind, from doing so. Puglia, for example, has not yet succeeded, yet the competing matter is there. It is clear that the quality of administrators makes a difference, but the principle cannot be exchanged for anything. There are Regions... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u973	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u974	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u975	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, do I have to ask you every time to make the statement or do you pay me any attention? I would like to comment on the amendments. As for the previous amendment, our vote is also against Amendment 30.118, because we are opposed to this competing legislation between those who make general rules and those who then have to make supplementary or complementary rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u976	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.118, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.119.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u977	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u978	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u979	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to vote in favour of Amendment 30.119, which allocates to competing legislation the major transport and navigation networks. Not all the country is united. Sardinia is an island and I'd like someone to remember it once in a while. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Quagliariello),]] Because he never remembers anyone that we're not all the same. In fact, there are more and more differences!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u980	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u981	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u982	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, Amendment 30.119 roughly follows Amendment 30.118. We are talking about national energy production, transport and distribution. We are seriously concerned because, already starting from production, I would like to remind this House that the state is failing because the thirty-year concessions in the major hydroelectric derivations have expired for five or six years and the State does not renew them with great problems on the territory. Among other things, with regard to the water estate, the Regions, together with the Provinces, are punctually defining the ritourni from the economic point of view of the Imbriferi mountain basins (BIM). This situation is quite embarrassing. If we then proceed to examine the transport system, we see that the Manager of the national transmission network (GRTN) is in deficit with regard to transport: the dismantling program in the large valleys of hydroelectric production is very late. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u983	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u984	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u985	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, as well as sharing what Senator Uras says, I would point out that unfortunately Liguria is in an even worse situation. I am pleased that Minister Pinotti is here: I invite you to talk to Minister Lupi, who is continually cutting everything in Liguria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is these days the megafinancing - again - of the TAV and we do not yet have a euro for the doubling of the Andora-San Lorenzo al Mare. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] And you all remember that train derailment. That's one. Not to mention all the other works that appear in the newspapers have not been cut by the unlocking Italy. In addition to sharing what has been said so far by my colleagues, I invite the Ligurian Ministers to speak with Minister Lupi - because I cannot - inviting him not to destroy our region. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u986	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u987	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u988	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I shall vote in favour of this amendment. However, I ask in advance to unpack it in transport and navigation, for the same reasons as previously stated. It is true that the matter of transport can be of national character: for example, if it is necessary to connect Liguria to Lazio, it may be that the Tuscany Region is not directly concerned or involved or could be proposing; but the Tuscany Region is involved, because from there it must pass the transport network. Therefore, the Tuscany Region in that case must be involved in the specific planning, with reference to where the connection must pass, and cannot be bypassed by state legislation. The same thing is happening in Val di Susa, where state legislation (the objective law) imposes a strategic infrastructure work according to a national logic, completely trampling the will of the local people. [[Protests from the PD Group. Warm comments and ironic applause from the M5S Group]] What is it? What is it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop, colleagues. I will shortly come forward with a proposal for further harmonisation of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u989	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u990	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u991	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will abstain on Amendment No 30,119 because it is not possible for those few things that work in this country to be ruined. You have stolen our supplementary and supplementary pension, expertise on the environment, tourism and sport; now you also want to plunder the transport and distribution of electricity. I cannot accept the barbaric way that the State literally steals competences from the Regions! [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u992	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.119, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.120.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u993	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u994	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u995	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would actually like to withdraw my signature from Amendment No 30,120 and make a dissenting speech by the Group, because I am sure Mr Crimes will want to speak after that. The amendment refers to respect for the legal, economic and social unity of the Republic. Today, August 6, we remember the massacre of Pietrarsa, which was a huge factory in South Italy, of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. In this case, I believe that we should begin to look in a positive way at the regional peculiarity; at the time they lost it, indeed they made us lose it. In fact, as I said before (and I want to remind you that I will certainly not be able to make an intervention at the end of the session), today is the anniversary of the massacre of Pietrarsa, that is of the employees, of the workers who for the first time... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u996	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u997	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u998	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, first of all I am against Amendment 30.120. I would like to say to the bystanders, in case the matter of the TAV is not resolved, to remember that there is the Berlin-Palermo corridor. We in South Italy would gladly accept a fast route that reaches Marsala.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u999	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Senator Crosio points out that he wants to intervene. Comments of Senator Crosio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1000	You have the right to do so. Colleagues, I would ask you to report your request for intervention in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1001	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are strongly opposed to this amendment because of the words'respect for legal, economic and social unity'. Perhaps someone has not understood that in this country unity is a concept that does not exist and we see it also from how you are completely disassembling the diversity of the Country through this constitutional reform, which aims to centralize powers and competences, taking away the diversity and abilities of the Regions. We shall vote against this amendment precisely because there is no unity, but there must be respect for diversity and capacity. And I am referring to the productive, economic and social capacity of every single region that you are impoverishing of powers and capacities. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group therefore voted against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1002	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1003	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1004	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I, of course, as the first signatory, will vote strongly in favour of Amendment 30.120, because maintaining the legal, economic and social unity of the Republic is a fundamental element. I stop here and do not go any further, even if I would have a minute of time, hoping to receive communications from the Directorio Boschi, Zanda and Sacconi, who has just set aside and is deciding on the future and the fate of our dialogue. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Cotti repeatedly shows that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1005	I say...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1006	[[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, have a seat. Colleagues, if you don't scream, it's better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1007	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I rise in dissent from my Group to withdraw my signature to the amendment which I shall not vote for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1008	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.120, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.121 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.122.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1009	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1010	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1011	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, on the list given to me by the clerks, it appeared that the secret vote had been requested for amendment 30.122 and I would like to know if it has been confirmed. CASINI (PI). They are called assistants and not committed, since you are 5 stars and we are the caste. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1012	A request was made on the secret vote on Amendment 30.122. [[Happy protests.]] But we have received the request for a secret vote on Amendment 30.123, not Amendment 30.122. GAETTI (M5S). This is the paper I have been given! (Senator Gaetti shows the Presidency a sheet.) I'm not lying! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The secret ballot of this amendment was accepted, but the request was not renewed. Therefore, the vote will take place by clear ballot, while the vote on Amendment 30.123 will take place by secret ballot. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.122, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.123, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 30.123, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live prolonged applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX groups, standing up. A hint of exultation. Congratulations very much.]] I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.00 p.m. and resumed at 10.04 p.m.) Let's resume our work. The suspension, as announced, was short and was only necessary to assess whether there had been any foreclosures following the adoption of amendment 30.123. Amendment 30.124 is precluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.125.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1013	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1014	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1015	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say that we are going to vote against this amendment because, as we have already seen, the regions have now been deprived of various powers. If we take away even the few remaining competences now, it is absolutely not good, because we have seen that this mania of concentrating in the state is not good. Let's just think about how school is going in Italy, which is the exclusive competence of the State: a disaster! If now even those few things that the Regions have, we bring them back to the state, it all becomes a disaster. Let's save those little things that still work in some regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1016	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.125, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.126 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.127, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.128, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.129.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1017	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1018	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1019	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that this amendment must also be voted on because, if we talk so much about modernity and modernisation, it would be appropriate to include in our Constitutional Charter vocabulary and descriptions that are up to date. In this case, when it comes to health and social services, we are asking for a description and a dictionary that today are most used in the current dictionary: I refer to the expression "social and health services." Therefore, I sincerely ask the Group if, if necessary,... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1020	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1021	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1022	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is humiliating to talk about this with a stopwatch. We are talking about the division of responsibilities between the State and the Regions, that is, one of the most important things, given that in a federal system it is necessary to determine who does what and the respect of an entity towards another entity. Since the time is good enough, I think that many Italians will be able to follow this debate and wonder: but is it possible that such important things should be managed in this way, with the stopwatch? In addition to being an abuse, we are giving the whole country the image that this is no longer the Senate of the Republic, but an equestrian circus. Thanks for the management, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1023	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.129, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.130.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1024	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1025	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1026	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, the explanation of vote is against this amendment. They are for a centralization of the lines of direction in the Regions also to ensure that you do not exceed this being 21 different preferential lanes. However, in my opinion, the organization is an area in which no one should say anything. It's like I, at some point, tell the surgeon how to operate and when. Or as if someone would tell me not only the criteria by which a house must be cleaned, but also how or when to do so. This seems to me to come out of the lost. Therefore, this amendment should be said to be a drastic no.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1027	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1028	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1029	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I asked for the floor, and the only person looking at me was Secretary-General Serafin, who made a horrible face. Please, Secretary-General, do your job. [[He lives protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1030	Divine Senator, everyone plays their part, but I demand mutual respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1031	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we respect everyone, but it is not acceptable to see that expressive mimic which already denotes the will of the person.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1032	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.130, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.131.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1033	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1034	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1035	[[Lively protests from Senator Divine.]] Divine Senator, I invite you to sit down. [[General protests]] I ask the House to calm down. [[Reiterate protests from Senator Divine.]] Divine Senator, you'll have the floor later. I now call Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, fortunately, there is always someone who protects minorities. In this case, go and insert [[. (Reiterate Divine Senator's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1036	Divine Senator, I call you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1037	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, with regard to Amendment No 30.131, insert the words: "health care and management" makes it possible to specify the scope of health and social services even more clearly. It is in fact appropriate to include in our Charter this specification that could, in some cases (and are also not too singular cases), specify better... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1038	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1039	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1040	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is difficult to participate in a debate in which the authors of the amendments do not explain the texts which they present and on which they request the vote in favour of this House. From a rather superficial assessment, it seems that in the understanding of the presenters there is the will to centralize health skills and it is clear that this can only find our opposition. We believe that the regions that manage health in our territories do so according to correct procedures and according to cost savings. Our fear is that, by delegating to the state the management of health policies, there is no improvement in services and public expenditure in relation to these services but, unfortunately, a further deterioration. So, from our point of view it's a wrong choice that definitely.... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1041	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.131, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.132 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1042	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1043	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1044	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I accept Amendment No 30.132 to allow Mr Catalfo to speak in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1045	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1046	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1047	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, I would also ask that I sign Amendment 30.132. I repeat - as Senator Petrocelli said a few hours ago in his request to President Grasso to convene the Conference of Leaders - I also reiterate the importance of planning active labour policies in a uniform and state-wide manner, given what Europe is asking of us and what is currently happening in Italy in relation to GDP and recession. It is therefore even more important to treat this issue in a uniform and finally definitive manner. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1048	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1049	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1050	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, do you have any idea what it will mean to read the broken debates on the Constitution in a few years' time? Do you have any idea what you will look like before the nation and posterity? No, you have no idea. Well, I want to make sure that the speeches in the reports are really interrupted, because this will make it clear how the discussions on our Constitutional Charter have gone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1051	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1052	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1053	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment No 30.132, which we believe is very important. Just returning to the discourse that the Regions now have few competences, it is very important to give them this legislative power on programming and organization of the active policies of the job, because the difficulties of work in each Region are different. We think only of the difficulty of finding work in some regions of the South compared to some regions of the North. The problems are different and therefore it is right that it is the competence of the Regions to study and try to solve the problem, which is different Region by Region. So let us welcome this type of amendment, and we shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1054	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.132, tabled by Senator Lepri, subsequently withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senators Puglia and Catalfo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.133, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.134 has been amended, together with amendment 30.72, to the agenda G30.72. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.135.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1055	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1056	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1057	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I think this amendment is very important, especially for what has been happening lately. In fact, the services relating to the organization of schools and the management of schools must be correct and free and it must not be verified, as is now the case, that workers employed in socially useful services are being exploited to do something else (e.g. painters) and forced to carry out inappropriate tasks. This amendment safeguards the freedom of school services.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1058	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1059	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1060	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, with regard to Amendment 30.135 we are a little concerned, because taking away powers from the territories in the management of school services is difficult to understand. In the Alpine valleys we have very difficult situations to manage, even at altitudes, and there are municipalities that are really disadvantaged. For example, the municipality of Trepalle, in the province of Sondrio, the highest municipality in Europe, despite the fact that people are thought to be phenomena, has serious problems. ( [[Laughter.]] [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups.]] Having to organize the school service - and I have done so - for the children at over 2,000 meters of altitude, even only in transport, is very difficult. And to think that the state is responsible for dealing with these situations makes us seriously concerned and, apart from the whole phenomenon that we can express in our territories, Madam President, we find this very worrying. So... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1061	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1062	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1063	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I too am opposed or not for the reasons which my colleague from Bartolomeo Colleoni's home country, who, as is well known, was also from this country. Remember Don Lorenzo Milani and the Barbiana school: that school would never have arisen if the State had to provide! And let me remind you of one of his great expressions: ==References====External links==* Official website [[Applause from the LAG Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1064	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 30.135...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1065	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1066	I shall cancel the vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1067	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise briefly to vote in favour of our amendment, stressing that we find it absurd to exclude the regions from the legislation relating to services relating to school organisation. Perhaps the real reflection that we should have done, in the light of what was written in this reform project, was to eliminate the Regions rather than the Provinces. This seems to us to be the real intent of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1068	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.135, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.136.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1069	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1070	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1071	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I rise to declare the vote in favour of the Italian component Work in the Mixed Group's course on this amendment, which sees the allocation of competences to the regions for the school organisation. Indeed, I cannot fail to note that schools are already run by municipalities or by former Provinces which are now large-area bodies, so it is vital that legislative powers in relation to the organisation and management of these institutions remain as close as possible to the local authorities as possible to the citizens. It is clear that to pass it on to the State means to change a fact, a status quo that already sees very fruitful and active involvement of local authorities in the management and organisation of schools.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1072	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1073	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1074	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is clear that our attitude to these amendments is linked to the fact that a few hours ago the amendment that removed competences from the regions was voted on, even on the rapporteur's favourable opinion. This, in our opinion, has changed those positive balances which emerged in the Commission, in which a solution was reached that could basically be good for everyone with respect to the division of competences between the State and the Regions. That amendment has put a whole range of considerations back in motion. In my opinion, it was a serious mistake for the rapporteur to give a favourable opinion on an amendment which gave the State powers that should have remained with local authorities. On this amendment too, our position is that school organisation and the management of schools should remain at the head of the regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1075	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1076	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1077	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, it is only true that in this case there is an obligation: to delegate training, one of the cornerstones of the nefariousness and waste that the regions have carried out over the past few years. I believe that some ten thousand are associated with the administrators who have organized false training courses - and they are meant to do so - leading to the destruction of resources. Somewhere in Campania, but I also believe in many other regions, we have people who, having done dozens of training courses, should be hired by ISPRA or CNR and not ask, as they do, for a further release of oboli and charity in order to make ends meet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1078	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1079	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1080	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I wanted to apologize to the Secretary-General for the sentences I just said...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1081	This is a good thing, and I thank you because we are all doing our job. [[Live, general applause.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). ...but I would like to ask one thing: because the climate is quite overheated, maybe some attitudes can give rise to uncontrolled reactions, so I invite everyone to do in our work in the best way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.136 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.137, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 30.138.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1082	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1083	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1084	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I rise in explanations of vote on both Amendment 30.138 and Amendment 30.138. They deal mainly with two issues which would be further discussed in this debate. However, I would ask for a separate vote on Amendment 30.138. The first vote to the words "education" and the second to the words "vocational training." In fact, I believe that education can also be understood as central and of purely state competence, where vocational training is linked to a local and territorial reality and therefore, being closer to the needs of the territories, could give further help to the current employment crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1085	I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on Amendment 30.136 tabled by Senator Battista. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1086	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1087	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1088	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, this amendment attempts to remove vocational education and training from regional competence. We know that the subject of vocational education and training, particularly in some regions, has been at the heart of investigations, convictions and scandals. There was the "Sicilia case," but not only, in all regions. We believe, in particular, - confirming in this regard also what Mr Battista said just now - that competence in vocational training should be taken away from the regions precisely because of the abuse that has been made of the European funds allocated to vocational training.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1089	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1090	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1091	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, we believe that these competences should remain with the regions. We realize that certain episodes of misconception may have called into question the role of local authorities, particularly the regions, but this is not a justification for reviewing the competences that have been assigned to them. We are not convinced that if these competences were assigned to the state we would have better, more correct, more efficient and more effective management in the interests of citizens. It is fashionable perhaps at this time to take away competences from the regions, but I do not think that a good job is done if this is done simply because it is driven by a general feeling not linked to the effectiveness of the service that we are going to guarantee. I hope that these competences will remain in the hands of the Regions simply because it is right that they should be, because the Regions have the opportunity to manage them absolutely... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1092	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1093	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1094	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, despite what Senator Crimes said, it is true - it is noted that there are great scandals in the regions - we must try to trust the administrators. Maybe not in the current ones, but in the ones that we will see maybe for a year now when there will be new elections and maybe the 5 Star Movement will enter the Regions and then check them with breath on their necks. Obviously I vote in dissent because after three times that I said "obey" I return that rebel that I was and am no longer obedient.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1095	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1096	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1097	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, if Mrs Mussini agrees, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 30. 137 and reserve myself to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 30.150.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1098	I take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.137, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 30.138, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.139.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1099	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1101	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking to announce my vote in favour of this amendment, which I believe is of fundamental importance because protecting the teaching of minority languages means protecting communities that maintain a cultural memory that is very important for the collective memory of our country. In this contemporary process of globalization which engulfs all the smallest realities in cultural homogenization, this amendment is very important. I call on everyone to vote for it because it allows smaller communities to protect, preserve and teach and transmit their cultures that will not be lost in this way. In addition, it returns to the school its function as a garrison, of historical memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1104	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, in vain we continue to try to maintain some objectivity and some competence over the regions. The regions have slowly splintered them: they will be stripped of their competences on supplementary pensions, on the environment, on tourism, on sport, on energy, and we will have less skills on the school. On the subject of health, my colleague, Mr Fucksia, responds that it is absolutely right that every citizen can enjoy minimum levels throughout the territory, but health is guaranteed today thanks to some Region that succeeds with less money and in a much more efficient way to guarantee very high levels of quality and with the conventions ASL every citizen, from any region comes, can get care and the right to health is guaranteed precisely because it is in the hands of the Regions otherwise would not even work the health sector! You see, where the state runs, how it manages, and what rubble remains behind it!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1107	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I basically share the content of this amendment. However, I would ask the first signatory for a rewording that removes the detailed list contained in it because if we wanted to add by law the recognition of other languages there would be a risk. I am thinking, for example, of the language spoken by the Roma and the Sinti that has been spoken for centuries in Italy, even if in a widespread and not localized way in a territory, rather than the allogloss languages (I imagine Spanish, for the minorities that are coming, rather than Arabic). I believe that it is appropriate to remove the list in order to avoid having to intervene on the Constitution by wanting to add another language. It is precisely for the benefit of the argument that I agree with therefore I propose to delete the words from: "albanese" until: "sarda" leaving instead: "minority languages" recognized by law. In this way we would allow the law to define what they are without setting it in the Constitution which, objectively, is more difficult to change.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1110	D'ANNA (GAL). I quote that I feel excluded from this discussion because Benedict Croce, Eduardo and many others believed that the Neapolitan was one of the languages to be spoken. I would also like to know from the Presidency or from my colleague Mr De Petris whether the word 'accitana', which is mentioned on the amendment, is a refutation. I think it's going to be "occitana." [[From the Mixed-SEL Group there are confirmations.]] I am opposed to the very fact that in Italy what is scarce is the correct use of the Italian language and we would do well to take more account of it than to lose ourselves or disperse among the linguistic minorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1113	URAS (Misto-SEL). I would like to explain that there is a European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages and that we refer to that charter which, unfortunately, has only been partially respected and transposed into Italian legislation. There is a rule, a law of the state, but it must be improved. Then there will have to be a proper implementation of the constitutional principle contained in Article 6 of our fundamental Charter. This is a step forward that we welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1114	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.139, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.140 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 30.141.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1117	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I wanted to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group, but I did not have time to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1118	It'll be recorded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 30.141, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'minority languages'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 30.141 and amendment 30.142 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.143, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1121	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments Nos 30,144 and 30,146.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1122	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.145, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, amendment 30.147 has lapsed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.148, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.149 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.150.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1123	As announced, I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1125	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 30.150 provides that the legislative function must be exercised through the adoption of single texts or codes for individual matters or functions. It would also be now, because now the decrees are issued and then modified after two or three weeks. What very little is said about these reforms is the executive function. Europe reproaches us that with the executive decrees we are behind, so much so that in order to be able to have them in the Chamber we had to blackmail the majority, that in order to go on vacation we have kindly granted three very important executive decrees: one on microcredit, one on the safeguard of the small photovoltaic systems and the other on the compensation of the credits between PA and folders Equitalia. If the Government also committed itself to the implementing decrees Italy would be better and ISTAT. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1128	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I would ask the rapporteurs whether this amendment should not be put aside because we will only deal with the legislative procedure (Article 10) and the legislative initiative (Article 11). I would ask whether it is correct to vote on this amendment now, if it is no longer appropriate to put it aside. I confess my ignorance and ask the rapporteurs for their enlightenment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteurs are against it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1131	DIVINE (LN-Aut). We think that this amendment is a good thing, given that the method of law-making is becoming more and more agitated and confused, we write about things that are not respected and we continue to issue what we call omnibus laws. The citizen no longer understands anything and is forced to turn to leguleis or experts in the matter, who in turn find it difficult to recover from the system. It is appropriate to oblige one-off codes and texts to legislate in such a way as to make a subject understandable. If we talk about agriculture, I take a code and I have that matter clear. The same applies to public works or tourism. It would be a moral obligation to impose on the government, instead of making so many proclamations, to rewrite the legislation in an intelligible way for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1134	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I rise to endorse this very important amendment. It would also have been useful to add some details, because a single text must actually be unique and not pseudo-unique as often happens, and it must be above all not a cut-paste, where perhaps the same word in the course of the text has a thousand different meanings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1136	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1137	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I disagree not because, in itself and in itself, it is not a good thing, but because it contradicts the principle that the government wants to have a preferential lane to make laws faster, while the only texts are exactly the opposite. Above all, the Constitution must not be filled with these things, which are real legislative garbage. The Constitution must have its own elegance and these things cannot be inserted into it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1138	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.150, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.151.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1141	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of the House to this deletion of the fourth paragraph of Rule 117, which introduces a very dangerous rule. In fact, it is expected that, on a proposal from the Government, the law of the State may intervene in matters not reserved for exclusive legislation when the protection of the legal or economic unity of the Republic, or the protection of the national interest, so requires. This means that, given also the times that we are running, with the very serious situation that we are facing and with the fact that the Government, among other things, always and only by abusing the instrument of the decree of urgency - and already this should be noted - and in the light of what can be defined by the Government as a state of economic and social emergency in any sector, we are faced with a real supremacy of the State, which enters and interferes in the matters of competence of regional legislation. This is a very arbitrary way of proceeding with the government... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1144	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to speak in a favourable explanation of vote for the Italian component.Work in the Mixed Group's course on this amendment abolishing the so-called supremacy clause, which is very dangerous, as Senator Bisinella has already pointed out. In fact, it provides for a real invasion of the field by the State in matters that do not belong to it, in addition with a legislative initiative proposed by the Government. We do not understand why the government is taking this legislative power when we all know that it should be entrusted to the House, the one that will remain. So there is a double supremacy clause: not only the government invades, but also on its own proposal. This is an amendment that must be accepted in order to remove this useless and harmful supremacy clause. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1146	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1147	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, in the fourth paragraph, it says 'not reserved for the exclusive legislation of the State'. So if a Region decides to legislate according to how a President of the Region gets up in the morning, it can also make laws that are not appropriate for the nation. I therefore believe that this amendment should not be adopted, given the beginnings of the various regionalisms that exist. I am very nationalist, so I will vote no.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1150	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. There is a problem in this House. It has been a year and a half since the 5 Star Movement denounced a problem known to everyone, because it is reported by the press and videos on YouTube. In fact, the network of pianists who continue to vote in this House is full, even this evening. [[Comments from the NCD Group.]] Let me finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1151	Please, Senator Ciampollo. Make the complaint and then we'll do all the checks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1152	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Let me finish. Of course, we know that they do this for the absent Member's diary. We have in this House the 5 Star Movement that returns part of the salary... [[Comments from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1153	This is not an item on the agenda, please. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.151, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). There he is! Give the sanction! [[Protests from the NCD Group.]] Please signal it. It's okay to report it. It is right to report and intervene, but if you scream in this way you do not go on. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 30.152, to the words 'legislative competence'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1156	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are opposed to this amendment, which, in the final part, states that the State essentially has the possibility to legislate in relation to the areas of competence of the regions. There is a fundamental misunderstanding: if the regions have the possibility to legislate on certain matters, they do not do so against the State, but for the services to be provided to their citizens. This insistence on the part of some senators, who believe that there is a danger if the regions retain their competences, in my opinion it starts from an absolutely wrong assumption. It must be determined whether it is more appropriate for the laws to be enacted by the local authorities, who have the possibility to have a more direct view of the needs of their territory, or whether, instead, it must be a centralist state, which legislates for territories that have... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1159	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a split vote, but, following what you said, it has probably already been requested. However, I would like to know what the first part consists of.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1160	As I said, the first part goes all the way to the words 'the matters of their legislative competence'. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 30.152, tabled by Senator de Petris and other senators, until the words "legislative competence" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 30.152 and amendment 30.153 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.154.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1163	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a split vote. I read the first part. In matters not reserved for the exclusive law of the State, the Chamber of Deputies, having obtained the favorable vote of the Senate, may adopt uniform rules where it is strictly necessary to protect the legal or economic unity of the Republic or to achieve equivalent living conditions and services in the national territory. This is the first part. The second part is the rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1164	I shall put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote by Senator Puglia. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1167	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we continue to find phrases such as: 'legal unity of the Republic', 'economic unity of the Republic', 'national interest'. Now we ask ourselves: do we have the terror of what? That the Venetians want to take a path all their own you know. A referendum has been held - let's say - internal, unconventional and the votes that have been received are those to break away from this State, from this Republic. Even if we continue to write that we need rules to protect integrity and unity, those who want to leave go. There is a principle that dominates all, the self-determination of the peoples, which cannot be deleted, because it is supranational and pre-juridical. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is part of the rights of the person and you cannot delete them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1170	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, thank you, but I did speak because I wanted to ask for a counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1171	Thank you, Senator. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.154, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.155, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.156, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.157.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1174	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, the draft law under consideration in Article 30 (1) (Art. The fourth subparagraph of Article 117 (1) shall contain the following words: On a proposal from the Government, the law of the State may intervene (...). My amending proposals propose either the deletion of the words "on the proposal of the Government" or the introduction of the word "also" to this wording. In fact, if we read the aforementioned fourth paragraph also in relation to everything that is foreshadowed in the rest of the legislative procedure and the legislative initiative that we will see, with all the times and the preferential lanes, get to the point of saying that on proposal of the Government will proceed to intervene on matters reserved to the exclusive legislation seems really excessive.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1175	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.157, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1178	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Amendment 30.158 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1179	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.159, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to amendments 30.160, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 30.161, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.162, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1182	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business on the basis of Rule 55 (7) of our Rules of Procedure, which I have learned about this month thanks to the speeches of my colleagues. Nine senators requested that an item be placed on the agenda as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1183	Senator, you know the Rules of Procedure and you know that this proposal will be discussed at the end of the sitting. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.163. [[Senator Tosato points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator, would you like to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 30.163? TOSATO (LN-Aut). No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1186	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). He said he was speaking on Amendment 30.163. BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Amendment 30.163 proposes to replace the words: "On a proposal from the Government" with the words: "on a proposal from the Senate of the Republic." Since here we have debated little about the powers of the Senate but much about its elective modalities and since it must be a Senate of the autonomous close to the territory, this is at least an attempt to diminish the government's intrusiveness on regional matters. Therefore, with this first-signed amendment, will we at least make sure that the initiative starts from the Senate, otherwise what have we discussed until today? To leave all powers to the government. If it is the Senate of the Republic or the Senate of the autonomous - as we want to call it - at least the proposal must come from this House, which will be made up of regional advisers. [[Applause from the Misto-LC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1189	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, some things have already been said by my colleague. You wanted a Senate made up of regional councillors and mayors and you did not want to listen to the request that came to you from large parts of this House about the direct election of senators by the people; you put regional councillors in and you want the government to cross over the functions that belong to the Regions. If the regions don't agree, since they're gonna sit in here, what's the point? If the proposal does not come from the Senate, that is from the Regions themselves it is all a contradiction; the oxymoron must be dissolved, it is not complicated: it would be enough for the right hand to think of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1190	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.163, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 30.164.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1193	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I basically agree with the supremacy clause, but I also agree with this amendment which seeks to mitigate this regulatory provision, according to which intervention in matters not reserved for exclusive legislation can only take place on a proposal from the Government. This great power attributed only to the Government that makes the proposal must have at least a balance in a binding opinion from the Senate, which, as we know, following the approval of Articles 1 and 2, will be the direct representative of the regional councils and therefore of the territorial authorities in which Italy is divided. Therefore, in my opinion, if a government sees the reasons for intervening with the supremacy clause it should still obtain a binding opinion from the Regions, because I imagine that probably the intervention of the Government will only concern a Region or some Regions, not all; therefore the Senate itself could express its binding opinion because of interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1196	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, do you want a strong government that can decide on the fate of us poor mortals, citizens inside and outside this House? You want the government to be dominus, as you wrote. It is precisely the minimum trade union opinion of the Senate that represents the Regions! At least you who remember what the unions are appeal to your common sense and vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1199	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I too share the comments that my fellow Members have just made, precisely because we are in a situation where we really want to be the Senate of the Self-Governments, so the Senate of the Regions, precisely because it is hoped that the work will be better. We do not understand then why in these events the Government can instead invoke to itself matters not of its own competence. And that's sorry. We can understand the matters of urgency and whatever else, but at least a binding opinion of the Regions, since they steal matters from them, I don't think it creates who knows what damage. That's why it's important to insert these three words: "Previous opinion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1202	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add the signature to Amendment 30.164 if Senator De Petris agrees, although it would have been better not to foresee the government's opinion but the Senate's opinion alone, but at least that of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1205	BATTIST (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I understand that we have become fans of the Wallabies that, for those who do not have the rugby, is the name of the Australian team; but I must understand the principle. We want to be in a hurry here, but what is the point of "smuggling" two amendments when we could have two votes? If you exclude the second amendment because I cannot speak, the House may not agree with the term 'binding opinion', but we could at least all agree on the expression 'yes' in the next amendment. Let me also reflect, ladies and gentlemen: we have been voting for a week and there is no amendment in this House approved by the oppositions. You and the government did this, as if it were a Commission in deliberating. But then do this because we are totally superfluous [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]] Don't listen to anything, don't take anything! Then you are not surprised if the secret votes have these results.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1208	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to support Mr Battista's request. I'll take a few seconds. It is not only a question of a favourable or binding speech (maybe one thing or another is approved) but of the right of every senator to say that he has voted, for example, an amendment with a favourable or binding opinion, for the sake of his freedom and without a mandate, so that he can say to his constituents: I voted for that amendment. Instead, this is foreclosed to the individual senators. This was also true of the amendments on the number of Members. Perhaps a senator would have liked to have voted on the 500 Members, rather than the 300 or 200 Members, simply to be able to demonstrate his parliamentary activity, what his idea is and confirm it. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1209	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 30.164, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words: "after an opinion" are given. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 30.164 and amendment 30.165 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.167, tabled by Senator Dirindin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.166.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1212	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I've got the cramp in my upper right limb by force to hold him up. We make paper shreds of everything, but not of the Italian language. The Italian language still makes sense. Allow me, Madam President, to make a note of your judgment. A binding opinion is an extremely clear expression: a favourable opinion is a completely different concept. An opinion may be favourable but not binding. I understand that two overlapping parameters may also be subject to the discretion to have the amendments voted together, to blow up the amendment or to banish it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, we are on Amendment 30,166. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I would like to speak on Amendment No 30.165 because I considered it entirely different from the previous one, on the basis of writing. I am told that it is not possible to discuss it because, by rejecting the binding opinion, we can no longer vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1215	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business in order to have a fair vote. Mr Aracri is here... president. We are at the explanation of vote, please. PUGLIA (M5S). It is important precisely for the legality of the vote. The funny thing is that I see him scattered with two hands in the holes. That's great. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Reporting and speaking, thank you, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). It is precisely the regrettable image of this House. [[Senator Aracri's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1216	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.166, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.168, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.169 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.170.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1219	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Amendment No 30,170, which refers to the fourth paragraph of Rule 117, an invitation to withdraw had been made. It seems to me, however, that if I were to accept the change of this amendment to the agenda, there was a favourable opinion of the rapporteurs. I would like to know the position of the rapporteurs and the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1220	I confirm the rapporteur's support for the adoption of amendment 30.170 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1221	Madam President, I accept the change of amendment 30.170 to the agenda, but I would like to hear whether the Government confirms the views of the rapporteurs. This is an important amendment, which mitigates the regulatory provision in the fourth paragraph of Article 117, which provides that at least the State shall establish differentiated disciplines for certain regions. I would like to hear whether the Government confirms the two rapporteurs' favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1222	I give my assent to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1223	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.171, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, amendment 30.172 has lapsed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.173.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1226	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to withdraw amendment 30.174.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1227	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.174, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.175, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendment 30.176, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30.177.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1230	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Pezzopane for his sensitivity because, while we gouge ourselves to try to maintain the regions a minimum of dignity and competence, they have shown me that you, probably completely disinterested, writes on a social network that we are dealing with completely insulting matters. Thank you, Mr Pezzopane, for your consideration of the House, of the oppositions and of our work. If he's got nothing to do, he can go home. [[Applause from the LNP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1231	Divine Senator, everyone acts as he thinks. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.177, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.178, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.179, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 30.181, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "and protection." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 30.181 and amendment 30.180 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.182.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1234	BLUNDO (M5S). I want to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 30.182, which protects the representation in Parliament of linguistic minorities. This is a vote which must be clearly in favour, given that previously, during the secret vote on an amendment on the same subject, the secret vote was in favour, both in coherence and in the need to protect the representations, including in Parliament, of linguistic minorities. I would like to point out a printing error, where I was represented in Parliament in the text of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Offices will correct this error.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1235	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1237	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I am speaking only to express my great regret, as a representative of linguistic minorities, because, for the umpteenth time, linguistic minorities are being brought into play in a very instrumental way, as was the case even when Amendment 30.123 was adopted. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]] These are amendments that have no legal meaning and are a disgrace to this House, because we are voting on totally absurd things! [[Applause from the PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII and SCpI Groups]] This is also the case for this amendment because it is a legal nonsense to give the Statute of a Region the discipline of representation in Parliament of linguistic minorities. This is absurd, and it is not a good page for this Parliament. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1240	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, Amendment 30.182 should be incorporated into Amendment 30.123, which we adopted by secret ballot. The latter in fact assigns to the Regions competence in the matter of representation of linguistic minorities in Parliament and if the Regions have this competence it is obvious that they will have to include it in the Statute. This amendment should therefore be taken into account and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1241	I'm asking to talk. [[Senator Uras points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1242	Senator Bencini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1243	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, if my speech is to preclude the intervention of Senator Uras, I shall give up my speech and leave it to my colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1244	Madam President, I would like to declare my vote in favour of Amendment 30.182. Never in me, who am one of the proposers of the amendments referred to by Senator Zeller, has for a moment passed only the idea of being instrumental in the matter of the rights of linguistic minorities. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] And in Italy, in this country where there are equals more than others, it must be remembered that there is not one linguistic minority, there are more than one and there are scattered throughout the national territory. And that's why we supported that defense, we won it, and we defend it! [[Comments of the PD Group. Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed Groups.MovX, Mixed-ILC and M5S, LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1245	I know it's therapeutic. Great.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1246	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1248	[[Brusio. The Divine Senator stands by.]] Please keep your voice down. Divine Senator, I invite you to speak, since you asked for it. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I urge you to let me speak so that I can at least hear myself, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right, please. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have tried to read it, read it again and read it again, but I find nothing scandalous in this amendment and I remember that a Sardinian has signed it, that is, a senator from a region that may have something to explain to many people in this House in terms of autonomy. I did not understand Mr Zeller's speech; the fact that it is said that it is up to the Statute of the Region, possibly, also to regulate that there is a presence of linguistic minorities in Parliament nothing takes away from the Regions, nothing takes away from the autonomy, if anything strengthens something. It is really difficult to understand the intervention of Mr Zeller, who, when it comes to the protection of the self-government, being perhaps the most protected and guaranteed autonomy that exists in Italy, should recognize that other self-governments could also aspire to such guarantees! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1251	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I do not want to do this: seeing and hearing what Senator Zeller says, we will have to return to the De Gasperi-Gruber Pact, which is the starting point of the wealthy bestowal that the Italian State has always reserved for certain linguistic minorities. So, I think Senator Uras has a lot to do with it. We, in this House, are minorities and, lively, not just linguistics because we are still voting. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1254	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I have to speak to defend the amendment voted on because it is precisely the Senate that you wanted - I read it - that the Regional Councils and those of the Autonomous Provinces with a proportional method elect the senators from among their members. At a time when it is said, in Article 117, that the Regions legislate in the matter of representation in Parliament of linguistic minorities means that the Regions, since they must elect their own representatives in this Senate of the Republic, are clearly the only ones entitled to identify how to protect their linguistic minorities and not those of others, their own linguistic minorities. Only regions can determine how to do this. So it's perfectly and legally sustainable, but it's not what you want to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1257	FINDING, rapporteur. Madam President, I am sorry to contradict Senator Uras, a person I particularly value, but I would like to put in line some issues first of all to show that this amendment has no legislative scope and if it had it it would be absolutely subversive of the whole system. The regional statutes do not have competence in relation to the representative Assemblies. And this is a first condition. The amendment then refers to the Parliament and therefore the regional statute would also stand in relation to the election of the Chamber of Deputies. However, this is not the first time that we have voted in this House for an amendment, which is not formal, which is totally untenable from a logical, legal and constitutional point of view. The amendment that we have just voted on in secret was, first of all, a part that had already been covered by the vote of the House; then, with this amendment it is said that it is the regions that have exclusive competence in the matter of national electoral law with which the House of Deputies is composed for the protection of the representations of Albanian, Catalan, Germanic linguistic minorities and so on. Therefore, those who in this case call for compliance with the Constitution as a criterion for dealing with this debate can no longer insist - let me say this - on amendments which are not legal in scope, absolutely contrary to the principles of the legal system, illogical and erroneous is to say little. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1258	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1259	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1260	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am dissenting from the Group and will vote in favour of this amendment. I take note of what has been said by colleagues in this House, by President Finocchiaro and Senator Tonini with an agency, thinking that if this measure actually makes sense and what has been said about the amendment has no legal scope, I would like to point out that only the real political note remains: this majority does not have a majority when voting by secret ballot and therefore we were right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1261	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1263	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I believe that there is only one scandalous thing that happened this evening, beyond the fact that the majority does not have a majority in this House when there is a secret vote: when you were to declare the result of the vote, so whether the government had gone under or not, the Senate TV obscured the images. And I think this is really a test of dictatorship. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1264	No, please, also because at that point the images were on one chance of reading my own.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1265	BULGARRELLI (M5S). At that moment in the Senate, the broadcast was obscured and resumed only at the time when the House resumed; therefore no one saw that you declared the vote; no one knows how that vote went and I believe that this is shameful. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1266	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.182, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.183, which is essentially the same as Amendment 30.184.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1267	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1269	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on Amendment 30.183, which I signed first. This is a common sense rule, ladies and gentlemen, try to read it. It provides that each Region, including those with special statutes, with its own law and without additional charges charged to the public finances, may decide federal agreements with other Regions. I think that this is also a bit of the scenario that is taking place precisely in order to respond more effectively to the needs of citizens. It is a bit the evolution that our state, our order, are undertaking and I believe it is a form of common sense to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1272	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to express to the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, my esteem and admiration for the way and style with which she is able to play a difficult role in a situation like this. We support Amendment 30.184 because it proposes the subject of cooperation. We would like our regions to cooperate together instead of competing with each other - and in competing to get hurt - by recovering a true and meaningful unity, the economic and social solidarity recalled by the Constitution. That is why we shall vote in favour... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1275	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, the fact that we are debating federal agreements with other regions has positive aspects and negative aspects. There is a part of the House, the part on my left, which imagines a federation, which they call Padania, but I could think, just to fly a little higher, pindarically, on the return of the Kingdom of the two Sicilies, to compensate the federations of the North. Basically the problem I pose to myself is that if we federate the Regions to do things maybe it can make sense, we federate them all, we make Italy once and for all and maybe we will manage to move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1276	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1278	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of Amendment No 30.183 and I would like to remind you that my Group, through Senator Barani, has promoted an amendment on macro-regions, all of this to show that we are for this constant cooperation between the regions. I would also like to bring an active element of knowledge about what was said earlier in respect of certain linguistic minorities: the distribution of the National Health Fund - so we are not talking about ammennicoli - does not take place in a homogeneous manner. And it doesn't happen in a homogeneous way, among many issues that I can't do here, also because the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Valle d'Aosta have a capitarian quota of about 300 euros per capita... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1281	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, if Mrs Bisinella would allow me, I would like to add the signature to Amendment 30.183. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bisinella, do you agree? Bisinella (LN-Aut). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1282	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.183 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 30.184, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 30.185 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1283	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1285	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to subscribe to it and make it my own regardless of the withdrawal. Senator Airola and I have already sent a sheet. [[Senator Sacconi points out that he wants to intervene]] He will shortly give the floor to Senator Sacconi who will withdraw him to turn him into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1288	SACCONI (NCD). Of course, yes: I turn it on the agenda because this amendment is serious and wants to commit the Government to define the territorial areas of associations between municipalities for the compulsory management of all the fundamental functions. So it is a far from instrumental request, as it is my custom to do in parliamentary life. It is a serious request, addressed to the Government to make this commitment. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1289	So, you're going to add the signature, Senator Crimes?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1290	Yes. I add the signature because I wanted to comment on the matter...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1291	Senator Sacconi, do you accept the request to add Senator Crimi's signature to the agenda G30.185, presented by Senator Sacconi? SACCONI (NCD). No!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1292	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda. [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1293	Madam President, I am in favour of the G30,700 agenda, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other Senators, G30,70, tabled by Senator Puglisi and other Senators, G30,72, tabled by Senator Parente, and G30,149, tabled by Senator Pagliari. These are the ones that came to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What about the agenda proposed by Senator Sacconi? FINDING, rapporteur. I am in favour of this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1294	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur. D'ANNA (GAL). I don't understand, ma'am!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1295	As the presenters do not insist on voting, the agendas are set aside for acquisitions. [[Senator Crimi's nodding his desire to intervene.]] I now give it to you, but I want clarity on the procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1297	You have the right to do so for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1298	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to reiterate that the request for accession to the agenda G30.185 is linked to the fact that the content corresponds perfectly to one of the twenty points of our programme, which is the amalgamation of the municipalities under 8,000 inhabitants for administrative functions... Mr Marcucci (PD). This isn't campaigning! CRIMI (M5S). ...so he's perfectly on the line. It had no instrumental purpose, but it had as its objective to confirm our position which, evidently, coincides with that of Senator Sacconi. I'm sorry for your action, which is, in my opinion, unworthy! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1301	[[Lively protests from Senators Crimes and Airola.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all, we are concerned, rather than worried. Secondly, since I was thirty, I am ashamed that most of my fellow countrymen have said absolutely nothing about what we have approved. In Trentino there is a high average of municipalities under 1,000 inhabitants. With this agenda, which has passed without anyone saying anything (not even my majority countrymen) and accepted by the Government within Article 30, half of the municipalities of Trentino would disappear... TONINI (PD). And that would be good. I wish. DIVINE (LN-Aut). ...on the altar of what? Administrative efficiency? The tradition, the bond that we have with our municipality and our population is so strong that we will never and never accept that for an accountant reason our bell towers are erased.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1304	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, we are now in the process of voting on the Rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1305	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1307	Orellana (Misto-ILC). I am voting against this article by the Group and, in particular, my component, and I would like to clarify the agenda accepted by Mr G30.185, which corresponds substantially to Amendment 30.179. The rapporteur and the government gave a favourable opinion on the G30.185 agenda. I find it hard to understand why these things happen: we are talking about the same thing, but if Senator De Petris says so, it is not good and if Senator Sacconi says so, it is welcome. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I believe that there are differences between the amendment and the reconstruction of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1308	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1310	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm acting in a personal capacity. I want to express my opposition to that agenda because the municipalities must be respected in their autonomy. They have already been damaged enough by the policies pursued. They were also private in the so-called metropolitan cities in participating in the determination of those who preside over the metropolitan city. I would therefore say that these self-governments have been quite massacred despite the fact that local administrators volunteer and usually keep them with a much greater per capita efficiency than the large municipalities. [[Applause from Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1311	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 30 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 31, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1314	Bisinella (LN-Aut). I would like to speak on the order of business and do not take the floor. It is my right to refer to the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, to Rule 84 (5). As a group, we tabled an express request to the Presidency half an hour ago to request the inclusion on the agenda of an item which was not planned today. It is our right to do so in accordance with Article 84 (5). Let me explain why. Have the decency to listen to a colleague of yours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You presented and got the answer. Bisinella (LN-Aut). You have to let me explain the content of the request. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1315	You already did.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1316	Bisinella (LN-Aut). You can't take my word for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have a minute. Bisinella (LN-Aut). We have asked for an urgent response tomorrow, at a time that you prefer, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Padoan, on the very serious economic crisis highlighted today by ISTAT. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1317	Senator, I also invite you to listen to the answer the President has already given you, which has already activated and is waiting for the Minister of Economy's reply. We must proceed with the examination of Article 31 and its amendments. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1320	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would like to reiterate the request made by our group leader Petrocelli and support that of Senator Bisinella, along with the entire North League. President, our country can no longer wait. Renzi's economic policy was sanctioned by ISTAT as bankruptcy and worse than last year's Letta policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1321	I call on everyone to read the Rules of Procedure correctly. And now I ask you, that you no longer have a title... [[Greeting comments and ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] We've moved on to Article 31. The right to speak, you know, depends on it. I would ask you to respect the right to explain the amendments to Rule 31, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, because we are moving forward in the work of this House. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1322	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1324	PETROCELLI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I didn't see you. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Please, the Leader is speaking. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] LUCIDES (M5S). (Addressed to the Senators of the PD Group). Shame! PETROCELLI (M5S). Evidently you didn't see me, President Fedeli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There were the others in your group who were talking standing up. PETROCELLI (M5S). Pending communications between the Senate Presidency and Minister Padoan (which, with the electronic means available to us, seems to me to be going with the pigeon traveler) I ask the Presidency for a clear and precise response to the request made this afternoon to convene the Conference of the Leaders. President Grasso replied about the presence of Minister Padoan in an absolutely legitimate way, which I, however, context as to the times. There have been times, but I would now like a response to the call for the Conference of Leaders to change the timetable, as requested this afternoon. The situation is very serious and we cannot tolerate an answer coming by tonight, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1325	As you know, this has already been communicated. In the meantime, I believe it is important that this House, which is convened, should be able to continue its work on the agenda. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] I consider this to be a matter of seriousness among us too. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The President is already proceeding. [[Senator Crimi's lively comments.]] No, Senator Crimes, the Leader has already spoken, legitimately, as you were entitled to. Now we have to proceed. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] We must proceed with the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 31.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1328	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1329	Please, Senator De Petris...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1330	[[Senator Crimi's lively comments. Senator Romani Paolo points out that he wants to intervene.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). A request for clarification... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Live Senator Crimes' comments showing a copy of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1331	Senator Crimes, you don't need this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1332	Excuse me, Senator De Petris, there is another Parent Company, Senator Romani, who is asking to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1333	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1334	[[Senator Petrocelli's comments.]] Senator Petrocelli, the President has already answered when you made your request. He also responded to the second. Please, Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1335	Madam President, in the economy of our work, I have here a document from 7 p.m.14 p.m. showing the time available, the time spent and the time left. I understand that the rights of minorities should not be compressed, but frankly I do not think that the rights of majorities should be compressed either. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] And if I read correctly... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1336	Please let the Leader speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1337	[[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Puglia, this is the second time I've called you back. [[Live comments from Senator Lucidi.]] AIROLA (M5S). Stop, you're fascists! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). President, that's okay. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] I keep talking. It won't be your screaming to stop me. If I read the sheet in my hand correctly, the groups that used most of the time of the evening have all, in front of the number that indicates the residual time, a negative sign. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP: Like yours! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Which means they would no longer have the right to speak. But not only... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1338	It will be the Presidency that will communicate the times. Please, Senator Romani, continue. Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1339	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). But not only that: they used, in addition to the time to which they were entitled, the beauty of 3 hours and 17 minutes the Mixed Group, the beauty of an hour... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). It's been a long time. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). There's no point in making the whole list. You know it, and you know it. [[Comments of Senator Gaetti]] If you remember - beyond your screams and rudeness - the debate in this House, because I do not know how much the language is attached to the brain on many occasions when you speak... [[Vivacious protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1340	I ask everyone to speak in such a way that no one reacts. It applies to everyone; I invite everyone to sit quietly in the seats and listen to the people to whom the word is given.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1341	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). President, call him back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, have a seat. Senator Petrocelli, please allow your Group to participate in the debate in a civil way, as it must be in this House. Senator Romani, talk to the whole audience. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). If you remember, the group leader Zanda gave the minorities another 30 minutes, which you only used for obstructive behavior. [[Vivaci commentati]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1342	That's enough. Respect in this House is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1343	VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP: Outside the Mafia from the State! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the Senator Secretary to report Senator Santangelo, who has already received two calls. At this point I make a written point of order, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group).]] Please, Senator Romani. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The extraordinary thing is that your inability to listen prevents you from hearing my proposal. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] My proposal is a question to the President to see if, in the economy of our work, we can regulate the debate. In the debate, dear friends of the 5 Star Movement who do not miss the opportunity to never listen [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You could also have the opportunity, if you wanted to listen for once, to a proposal that would allow you to speak in an economy of work that would allow everyone to discuss in a more normal way, respecting the rights of minorities but also those of majorities, who here, this evening, have not had the opportunity to speak. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now, please, stop. Senator Marton, please listen. Senator Santangelo, I invite you to sit down and listen. Your parent has already spoken. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I have a question for the President. She told us a few minutes ago: I have a proposal to make to the House for the best use of time and a better economy of our work. Since continuing this way seems frankly useless to me and the spectacle that we are giving and which you are giving is terrible for those who have the misfortune to watch the debate on television in this House, if it were possible for once I would like to make better use of time; and the best time is used if you know how much it is. I therefore ask the President, who seemed to me to be on the verge of making a proposal, if he is in a position to do so. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Will you let me talk once? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, let the Leader speak. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The idiot thing you're doing to me isn't for me... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani, help us. Talk to the presidency, it's the most useful thing... ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). ... but only to the stupidity of those who do it. It is not I who have to solve the problem, but the President of this House. I would ask the President of this House to make a proposal that will enable this House to work better than it has done so far. The question is simple: I would ask you to make a proposal. I tell you one thing you don't expect: since we have been a little bit more ants, instead of cicadas like you. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] , we still have 19 minutes available for the time allocated to us. If the President could use the time that all the Groups have, in a proportional way, to allow for a dialogue and a civil debate once and for all, I would ask the President to use our willingness to make a sensible proposal as well. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1344	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1345	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1346	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, let me tell President Romani that we will probably have used a little more than three hours out of the time we were given, but above all, it is the same time that we used today in the conversation between Berlusconi and Renzi, so we read [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] We do it here in Parliament. I would also like to remind President Romani that no one here has prevented majorities from taking the floor. For the truth, up to this moment it has been prevented, as happened before the break at 8 p.m., as far as we repeatedly are concerned, from being able to make a specific contribution. I would like to say to President Romani that, if he were careful, he would have been able to see, for example, that when, like others, I had put a strictly substantive question about adding quality to food safety, I was not putting a question of obstruction, but a question that deserved a minimum of reflection and not the gesture of closing the microphone. I therefore believe that when we wanted to have a debate, as in the case of the debate we had on the enlargement or not of the audience for the election of the President of the Republic, the President had the power and the opportunity to manage the time appropriately, so much so that we were able to have a fairly in-depth discussion with results, unfortunately, not really happy, but at least quite in-depth. I therefore believe that it was in the will and also in the full power of the President, as I have allowed myself today to say to President Grasso, to be able to harmonise the debate, not in the sense of taking the floor, but by ensuring that on important issues there could be the possibility of a serious debate. Article 117 of the Constitution, on the other hand, we have dealt with it in a completely disorderly way, without having the slightest opportunity to argue all our positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1347	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1348	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1349	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I feel the responsibility, on behalf of the Democratic Party, to help make the Senate House work. I believe that none of the senators present have ever participated in Senate sessions in which such constant violence has been expressed against all of us, each of us and against the Senate institution, which has been blocked in its operation. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senators Martelli and Bottici]] I ask the President of the Senate to bring the Conference of Leaders together immediately, because we must decide together how our work should continue. In fact - and I want to make this clear to those who have so far prevented the House from working - this reform will be approved, it will be fulfilled in the terms in which it has already been established. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I also call for our work to be organized where it is to be organized, i.e. by the Conference of Leaders, which I believe should be convened immediately. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1350	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1351	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1352	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I hope at this point that you do not call the Group Leader, and I will explain why. Since this morning, we have called for the Capigroup to be convened to organise the work as best as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We asked President Grasso and he didn't give us an answer; we asked her and she didn't give us an answer. [[Comments of Senator Susta]] My dear colleague Susta, ask for the floor and speak because no one denies it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1353	Please, you're talking to a group leader. Senator Centinario, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1354	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] In the light of your speech, we assume that you have entered the majority. We, and I do not speak for others but for the parliamentary group I represent, have not done obstructionism... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Centinario finish. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have not been obstructive; if you want to see obstructionism, do obstructionism. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We have spoken on the amendments tabled to Articles 28, 29 and 30 simply because - unfortunately, many colleagues are not so careful - it was Title V of the Constitution, a very, very expensive subject at the League. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For more than twenty years now the League has been present in this Parliament; if some Members have not yet understood that the Regions and federalism are the most important thing for us that exists perhaps it is better that next time they do not reappear because they have a wrong role. Madam President, I am sorry that President Zanda said that there was violence in this House today. I have not seen violence; perhaps I have seen some verbal intemperance. Indeed, it is true, perhaps it has been exaggerated, perhaps it could have been done differently; in this it is certainly right, but, I repeat, we had asked for the Conference of Leaders for a long time and we have not been allowed to do so. I regret, however, that, since there is someone who accepts President Zanda's statement and therefore speaks of violence against this House, there is also the violence that has been used against the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] A violence used for days to pass this process of constitutional revision so that President Renzi can finally go on quiet vacation and can tell the umbrella neighbor that at least one thing has done it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] At this point we have to get to tomorrow and we have to do it at all costs. I repeat, Mr President, we have used one minute for explanations of vote on the amendments, but we have not obstructed them. If you go to listen to the speeches made by my colleagues in the League, you will find that they were all substantive comments on the amendments. So, you can't say the North League was obstructive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1355	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1356	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1357	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, I would first of all like to point out that the obstructionist practice must not be in any way blamed, nor must it be by those who practiced it, as if it were an ignominy; in fact, it is absolutely legitimate parliamentary behaviour and it is understandable that at certain times it is produced in order to emphasize their position. But, as has been said, it is legitimate to discuss as well as the rights of those who obstructism also exercise the rights of those who are part of the majority, who aspire to see the measure they share approved. In order to order our work, a Conference of the Leaders may be useful in the time between now and the beginning of tomorrow morning's sitting at 9.30 a.m. I would leave to the Presidency's own appreciation the choice of which time to use between now and tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m., so with the widest possible accession about the time at which it is to be carried out. In any case, this group leader should be kept in good time so that at 9.30 a.m. work can resume and - I hope - more fruitfully than today has been given to the aspirations of the majority, i.e. seeing, as I said, the measure he shares.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1358	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1360	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, since the afternoon, we have been calling for the Conference of Leaders on economic issues to be convened. President Zanda is now asking you about violence in this House. And the violence against citizens that poverty and GDP are causing, do we not consider it? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] DI GIORGI (PD). Leave poverty alone! PETROCELLI (M5S). President Grasso had guaranteed that an answer would come by 11.30 p.m. Secondly, it is already the third time that we have arrived at the end of the sitting and a specific request from eight senators for the implementation of Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure that the Presidency has not answered. The answer must be given to the written delivery that Minister Padoan will be heard by tomorrow. Therefore, in a path that we have seen in the long term, where we have now joined the Democratic Party, New Right Centre and also Forza Italia, who have applied violence by excluding some of their senators from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, do not come now to talk about violence in this House, which is a Chamber that has acted trying to enforce the Rules of Procedure, that Rules that you have trampled on, torn, destroyed, distorted and transformed for your use and consumption. Tonight we ask that we respond to the request to listen tomorrow to Minister Padoan, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, and we ask that the priority of a Conference of the Leaders on economic issues should take precedence over the tale told by President Zanda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1361	In response to the various requests made by several group leaders to convene the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the President of the Senate has arranged for them to be convened immediately. Therefore, requests for changes to the timetable remain absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1362	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1363	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, August 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.57 p.m.
