ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00262 (text 2) tabled by Senator Pignedoli and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00269, tabled by Senator Formigoni and other senators, and 1-00275, presented by Senator Gaetti and other senators, on the promotion of a global food pact for Expo 2015. I call Senator Pignedoli to explain motion 262 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motion by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which I am preparing to present, aims to make the House express itself on a subject which is already very important for our time... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u10	Colleagues, I would invite you to lower your voice, out of respect for those who are speaking. Please, Senator Pignedoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u11	PIGNEDOLI (PD). ...but it can become an emergency for generations after us. I am talking about the great contradictions that concern the food issue, the future of food. The force of Expo 2015, dedicated to the theme "Feeding the planet, energy for life" will also be measured in relation to the cultural message that will launch on the theme of food security, due to the title that brings, in addition to making visible the creativity and innovative capacity of the individual food systems. I mean, in terms of food safety, the definition given by the 1991 World Food Summit, that is to say, the condition in which all people, at all times, have physical, economic and social access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food that meets their needs in order to lead an active and healthy life. The theme of food production, access and consumption brings to this century contradictions and enormous problems, linked together. There is a need to produce more and better to eradicate the problem of hunger, to face the strong demographic growth expected in the coming decades. At the same time, however, there is a need to reduce the impact and environmental footprint of agricultural production. We remember that agriculture produces global greenhouse gases of 33% of its emissions and 70% of its consumption is for agriculture on the use of fresh water available worldwide. There is an urgent need to tackle the devastating paradox of food shortages on the one hand and over-nutrition on the other; to limit the percentages of agricultural production for food and energy purposes; to resolve the shameful contradiction between food poverty and, at the same time, food waste throughout the supply chain; to tackle the increasing financialisation of agricultural markets and the consequent spread of speculative phenomena, before food and now arable land. They are problems of epochal scope, which must find a centrality in the policies of the different countries; they must make us take new and more widespread awareness, to courageously take new paths that reverse the spiral of poverty and food scarcity, that reconcile respect for the planet with the well-being of its inhabitants. We do not consider them rhetorical statements, which we do out of duty, to leave a document, as they say, to simply leave to the record. We do this so that they become strong inputs, convinced, that they start from the parliamentary classrooms but translate into concrete choices of the governments, actions convinced of the individual States and, as a matter of fact, become common reflection, patrimony of the communities, choices of the individual, up to changes in lifestyles. In order for individual states, including our own, to courageously choose to support forward-looking actions, i.e. the most difficult ones, i.e. those which are not translated into immediate consensus but into forward-looking investments. In order to encourage and support organic production, innovations, such as precision agriculture, the one based on the use of new technologies, planned for the targeted use of water, soil, energy, programmed for a crop customization (i.e. only what is needed and where it is necessary to irrigate, plow, use energy), planned to increase the productive yields of the land, not with chemistry, but with advanced technological intervention. More productive yields, better quality, less pollution: this is the goal of the century. More harvested for each drop, as we use to say. Great paradoxes, all related, as I said: in one part of the world millions of people are denied the right to food and in another part they can die of overnutrition. The figures tell us everything about the twists we're witnessing. Each year, against 36 million people dying from food shortages, 29 million more die from food - related diseases. As food needs grow, according to FAO, one billion and 300 million tons of edible food is wasted, or four times as much as would be needed to feed the 868 million malnourished people in the world. As food needs grow, only 55% of agricultural production is devoted to nutrition, the remaining part is transformed into biofuels and industrial products. There is therefore something that does not work in the governance of the planet, in the policies of the nations, in the choices of development. We need to know more, to study more, to deepen the causes and the causes that cause such devastating food insecurity; to increase the level of awareness on international and long-term factors and not to close ourselves in the immediate tactics, in the internal dynamics, not to read everything with a neighborhood look. We must be aware that international agricultural markets are particularly attractive for speculative financial activities, since price volatility is a structural feature of them, because markets for agricultural futures are poorly regulated, because the progressive liberalisation of agricultural markets in a context of growing market interconnection is accompanied by an influx of short-term investors. We need to know that the outcome and impact of price volatility in individual countries is on food producers and consumers, i.e. on the weak links in the value chain. We must be aware of the precious value that is taking on the arable land in our time. While in our country and, in general, in the West in recent decades the consumption of agricultural land has experienced an unprecedented acceleration, in the developing countries a real gold rush is going on, that is, the purchase of land still cultivable by financial subjects, of countries with a lot of liquidity but few cultivable extensions. A phenomenon that will progressively reduce the security and food sovereignty of local populations and lead to new forms of colonization. On the positive side, however, there is a further and important awareness linked to all this: awareness of the value of Italian agri-food heritage Many realities of our Country are a concrete synthesis of the factors of biodiversity, health, new technologies mixed with ancient traditions, unique experiences to be brought out precisely on the occasion of Expo 2015. While we struggle to attend foreign markets, the world will come to us suddenly and it will be an extraordinary opportunity for a live confrontation of models and cultural growth, as well as a unique opportunity for international promotion, if you will be able to grasp this within a project that exalts the differences, but within common guidelines at national level In 2015 we will have 147 host states in our country. The strategic document of Expo, which traces the guidelines of the event, starting from the idea of a new humanism for development, speaks of a sustainable revolution and proposes an international confrontation on the major challenges related to the theme of food, in a perspective including all aspects and all the ideal and cultural nuances of the theme. For a long time, the Barilla Center Foundation has been working on this objective and has promoted an important mobilization of civil society on the Milan Protocol, which has submitted and opened up to the contribution and sharing of all citizens on the issues of sustainable agriculture, lifestyles and the contrast to waste.Here, we today ask that the Italian Government is convinced promoter of a confrontation between the States participating in the 2015 Exposition, which makes a strong interest grow around the various themes that can then lead to a real global Protocol of food, based on the following commitments: limits of destination of agricultural production between food and energy; initiatives for a uniform regulation of the financial markets to avoid circumvention due to the lack of international regulations; incentive of agronomic eco-sustainable practices for an increase in production in the less productive areas of the world to respond to the demand for food on the increase; valorization of the role of producers in the government of products along the entire supply chain; incentive of organic production and the use of agronomic precision techniques in the areas of the less productive world to respond to the demand of food; enhancement of the role of the producers established in the main European and international initiatives, offerings on the subject of food; incentives, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as the people, we have been involved in Europe's. It is also a question of promoting the dissemination of nutritional models that are attentive to the impact on health and the environment through information accessible for more informed choices by citizens. Finally, it is important that there is a commitment, in agreement with the Regions, so that the most representative realities of the system of Italian agri-food excellences are concretely involved in this event of economic character, of social and cultural growth, a sort of "Expo of the territories" we have defined, that present to the world, with common guidelines, the best synthesis of the Italian agri-food system. In conclusion, Madam President, Minister Martina, what is proposed here is an exceptional assumption of responsibility from our country, an assumption of responsibility, because a problem of such vastness, with such profound interrelations, cannot be delegated to anyone else. In the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on trade and food security, the conclusions include global food security among fundamental human rights and identify food insecurity and malnutrition at the same time as the cause and effect of poverty and underdevelopment: nutritional well-being is not only a consequence of development, but also a precondition for it. And, after thorough analysis, the conclusions are all too simple: only with widespread responsibility, with changes starting from itself, the responsibility of everyone, each in part, will be able to take a possible solution for the years to come. Indeed, as Mario Campli, the rapporteur for the opinion of the European Document, rightly replies, to the question: "Who will feed the world?" "The answer is: Only the world can feed the world. And I believe that parliaments and governments must be ahead of this enormous commitment and this enormous change. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u12	I call Senator Formigoni to explain motion 269.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u13	Madam President, from the moment our country presented the candidacy of Milan for Expo 2015 (it was then the year 2007), we chose to distinguish that candidacy for a strong commitment on the topic of the exhibition itself, having the ambition to want to make the Expo of Milan 2015 an international forum for reflection and debate, cultural, political and sociological, that would also lead the international community to assume strong and binding commitments on a topic as delicate as that of food, the fight against hunger and food security. And this element was always appreciated both by the Bureau International des Expositions, and by the most experienced among the countries of the international community, who then supported the candidacy of Milan. I want to stress this point, because the motions that the Senate is called upon to debate today go exactly in that direction. And I am grateful to my colleague Pignedoli who in his speech wished to mention that strategic document which in 2012 I had the honour to promote as President of the Lombardy Region and which bears, together with the signature of the then President of the Region, the prestigious signatures of the then President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Mario Monti, of the Secretary-General of the BIE, Vicente Loscertales, of the President of the European Commission, Manuel Barroso, and of the Secretary-General of the UN Ban Ki-moon. For the first time - I stress - Italy, in organizing its Expo, has proved capable of gathering around a document, not made of fried air, but of deep content and important commitments, the world institutions most interested in the matter. That is why I believe that this morning's debate is not at all ritual or taken for granted, but it comes to the heart, indeed, of the very lively world debate on these issues. The motion that I have the honour to sign first, together with the other colleagues who wanted to share it with me, also recalls the commitments that the recent UN General Assembly has reiterated in examining, at a special event, the state of achievement of the eight Millennium Development Goals in 2015. As we all know, the first and most important of these objectives is to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, and it has been specified that the world has committed itself to halve the percentage of people suffering from hunger since the document was signed in 2015. This goal has not yet been achieved: today 842 million men and women under malnutrition are still being calculated, 12% of the world's population, as reported in the FAO report on the state of food insecurity in the world. But it is certainly possible to see an improvement in the situation, if it is true - as it is true - that twenty years ago, in the first half of the nineties, the population malnutrition over the total population had an incidence of 19 percent. In twenty years we have reduced the hunger sufferers by 35%; the goal we have undertaken to achieve is therefore strongly challenging, but also not impossible. Sustainable food systems have been placed by FAO at the heart of the most recent World Food Day. As you know, food systems are made up of the environment, people, institutions and processes in which agricultural products are produced, processed and brought to consumers. The FAO's intention to highlight the need for comprehensively integrated action is clear. With the term "sustainable" the reflection on food safety and nutrition is brought back by FAO in the broader process of rebuilding the post-2015 Global Development Agenda. There are two directions for discussion to make international cooperation more effective for development. The first is to support the goals for peace building and states (the so-called peacebuilding and state building goal), and the second is to take into account sustainable development goals. On the second point, the Rio+20 Summit in June 2012 resulted in a working group presenting specific comments on a still wide range of issues, and this will be one of the main tables of the post-2015 policy-making process in the form of a high-level working group. The work will be part of the post-2015 agenda promoted by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and will be finally approved by the UN General Assembly convened for September 2015. From here it is clear how the process for defining the framework for post 2015 development fits perfectly into the calendar of our Expo and calls Italy to assume a central role. We also know that Italy also has another great opportunity to play an appropriate role in its great history, and it is the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On all this I would like to remind you that the European Union has been awarded the Nobel Prize for its contribution to peace, democracy and human rights. The European Union, although it is legitimate to ask our countries to do more, is still, today, the largest international donor: I remember that in 2012 it donated €55.2 billion. However, we need a more strategic approach to poverty reduction, which we can and must make operational under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, with particular reference to the southern shore of the Mediterranean. I would also like to remind you that the United Nations has decreed 2014 the International Year of Family Farming, to highlight the enormous potential of family farmers in the fight against hunger and for the preservation of natural resources. Pope Francis recently spoke on these issues, who in his message to the World Food Day of FAO recalled the theme of the rural family and the role of the family in education for solidarity and a lifestyle that overcomes the culture of waste and really puts every person and his dignity at the centre. It is in this context, Madam President, that we place the commitments which we are asking the Italian Government with the motion of which I am the first signatory. I list four of them briefly. The first is to promote initiatives in Italy aimed at promoting the widest and most conscious voluntary participation of public institutions, business representatives, the third sector and the world of communication in the debate on the future of food. The second is to link this commitment to the dialogue already started with international organizations and with the governments of the countries that will be protagonists of Expo 2015. The third commitment is to put the issue of the global sustainability of food systems on the agenda of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The fourth is to play an active role in promoting the most important actions emerging from civil society, such as the one promoted during the 5th International Forum on Food and Nutrition, in which the Milan Protocol was proposed, a global agreement on nutrition and nutrition to be signed during Expo 2015. In the motion we also identify the seven major thematic strands, which are not listed, in order to contribute, also from the technical and scientific point of view, to identify interventions and good practices to be translated into public policies aimed at achieving concrete objectives in order to build sustainable food systems. I conclude by saying that the challenge facing political institutions, international bodies and civil society is to show that it is possible today to ensure sufficient good and healthy food and sustainable development for all humanity in this world. This can be achieved through a new approach that combines all scientific and technological knowledge, the most advanced results of research, collaboration between public and private institutions within an awareness of the role and responsibility that man has in the face of the resources of nature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Expo 2015 will be and will have to be an opportunity to share a new model of food development and safety on the security and safety side of the human person and his relationship with the environment. This is our commitment. This I hope and I am sure that our country will be able to reach. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Pignedoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u14	I call Senator Gaetti to explain motion No 275.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u15	Madam President, Minister, Government, Senators, when Senator Pignedoli told me that she would table a motion on agriculture, I was very happy, because this House has never talked about it in a complete way: only a few amendments, some hints on the economic aspects of agriculture in the course of the DEF debate. This explains how many issues have been listed in our motion, on which there has never been the possibility of an analysis carried out. For me, who am a pathologist, agriculture has an important value, as I strongly believe in what the philosopher Feuerbach said in the last century, namely: We are the one we eat. Today add: "We are what we eat and breathe." But if we cannot influence the air individually more than that, everyone is the creator of his own choices. In fact, food affects not only the physical, but also the consciousness and the way of thinking. Today in Europe six of the seven main risks of premature death (blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index, insufficient consumption of fruit and vegetables, little physical activity and alcohol abuse) come from how we eat, drink and move. The growing number of obese or overweight people in Europe is particularly alarming. The European Commission hopes for an integrated approach involving stakeholders at local, regional, national and European level. It is precisely because of the importance of the problem that the Commission has written the White Paper entitled: A European strategy on health aspects related to nutrition, overweight and obesity is intended to help reduce the risks associated with poor eating habits and lack of physical activity. The contradictions we are observing are before everyone's eyes: thousands of deaths from hunger are mixed with thousands of deaths from obesity. We are at the paradox: we use very expensive pesticides, very harmful (which, however, do not increase production more and serve only to safeguard the shape, the visual aspect of the product) and then we spend billions of euros for laboratory controls. This perverse mechanism only serves to increase the profits of multinationals, to the detriment of citizens. It would suffice to prevent the use of pesticides, at the same time improving the health of citizens and reducing the price of products, on which the costs of analyses are discharged. We find these pesticides inside of us. There is no need to be scientists, just read a daily municipality of June 6, 2014, on which we read that the U.S. Agency for the Protection of the Environment (EPA) received a delegation of scientists, environmentalists and mothers worried because in breast milk - yes, in breast milk - has been found a herbicide used on genetically modified crops. They detected the presence of mutagenicity in breast milk in three out of ten samples (i.e. 30 per cent of the population) at levels ranging from 76 to 166 micrograms per litre. These limits are less than 700 micrograms per litre allowed by EPA - we have also invented the threshold values - that last year it had raised and that this year it is thinking of lowering. But we are not better in Europe either. Analysis of 35 urine samples from the Friends of the Earth showed that in the last year the amount of cesium increased ten times. I want to point out that the threshold values are different between the United States and Europe (in the face of the scientific data): how much less harm is it to the American citizens, so the threshold values are higher, while it hurts Europeans more, so the threshold values must be lower. This demonstrates the lack of authority of many bodies, both research and institutional, which respond more to multinationals than to ethics. I would like you to pay attention to this fact, published by Eurostat: the quality of life in terms of health has been reduced in Italy in recent years. It is true, yes, that we live longer, but, if in 2004 the beginning of the pathologies was fixed at 71 years of age (first we were retired at 60 years, then one was ten years of good quality of life, then he got sick, to die at 80 years), today instead we begin to get sick at 62 years (nine years less), then we will do the last years of work (since we retire at 70 years) with this burden. Health costs will therefore increase and people's inconveniences will also increase. Food has become a means of exchange for profit, without paying any more attention to its health. The great international institutions are inventing limits, threshold values under which there would be no damage. The use of certain substances, together with industrial pollution, has damaged the environment, soil, water and air, which give us life and which we will now have to depollute. It is clear that food cannot be separated from the environment, health, lifestyles, marketing, transport and ultimately from the very meaning of life. We need to rethink many aspects, not just improve production with GMOs (as they want us to believe). We need to review international treaties, such as TTIP, and reduce the waste imposed by marketing. Most products we buy with our eyes, not our noses. Tons of food are thrown out because they don't match standards. The zucchini is valid if it is 12 cm long; the longer it is less required by the market. Why? You don't know. We must talk about how to depollute our territories, in order to allow a new type of development. Here I would like to recall a friend, Gaspare Gasparini, who one day went to the United States and learned that Mantua was polluted with dioxin and many other substances, there he learned that we have 420 malformed children every 10,000 births. He was surprised that everyone knew there, while we mantovani knew little. He was busy, assuming a different economic development. If chemistry had created problems, chemistry had to solve them. He imagined a technological research hub that would help young researchers, create jobs and improve the environment. He had organized numerous conferences, because he wanted the Expo to talk to the world about these opportunities. Instead, the Expo is burdened with many problems: delays in work, mafia infiltrations, corruption, waste of public money, devastation of an agricultural territory. It does not appear to be the only suitable forum for dealing with the issues referred to above. The Italian Government and the political forces that make up the parliamentary majority indicated in the Expo alone the opportunity to discuss these issues. Instead, the points listed above must be continuously present in the lives of citizens and it is not enough that they are relegated to the subject of an exhibition, which has no capacity to affect the legislation, the behaviour of society, limiting itself only to a particular aspect, commercial and consumeristic, contrary even to the inspiring principles of the Expo itself. The opportunity to create and realize that type of Expo has always been considered paradoxical and stigmatized by the 5 Star Movement, which is in favour of the exchange of ideas. It could be done in a different way, like the project of the University of Milan of Expo widespread and sustainable. We therefore ask the Government to commit itself above all by helping developing countries to produce food there; this would also avoid the human disasters that we are experiencing these days. We call for procedures to be initiated to activate the safeguard clause against GMOs. Above all, we ask for interventions aimed at healing the productive dynamics from which results an excessive waste of food products. But above all we believe that it is important to put in place specific information campaigns, including through the public radio and television service. They tell us that osteoporosis cures by eating more calcium, but there is nothing more false. The calcium required in osteoporosis is very limited; it should be explained that less protein should be eaten. And I say this by addressing my order, the medical order, which seems more careful to evaluate the issues of ENPAM than those of public health. Funds should be increased to universities and other research bodies in order to ensure that tomorrow's professionals are prepared. If you think that doctors, in the university curriculum, are simply given ten hours of training on nutrition, how can they teach correct nutrition to the sick who will visit if they do not have a culture in this regard? I think it is very important to promote cooperation with schools of every order and grade, because it is through the education of children that we begin to improve the health of citizenship. It is also important to intervene through public and hotel catering, while on this subject you have just approved the reduction of 5% of expenses instead of starting there, with the consumption of local and quality products, but of true quality and not quality guaranteed by the threshold values, invented by us to allow foods that would be inedible to become edible! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] At this point we also ask to block all those works related to the Expo for which no contracts have been awarded, there are no risks of payment of penalties and those whose works will presumably be completed at event ended, making them less functional and reason for existence. The time at my disposal is running out, so I conclude by reminding you that in the motion we have asked for many other interventions, on which we hope that the Government and, above all, the collective debate can really affect. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u16	I declare the debate open. Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u17	Madam President, Minister Martina, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Pignedoli and the other senators for putting this important motion at the centre of the Senate debate, one year before Expo 2015, and I would like to try to broaden the reflection that has developed from it. Today it is becoming increasingly apparent how crucial problems, such as energy, the environment, climate change, poverty and food availability, cannot be understood separately: they are systemic, interconnected and interdependent problems. The fundamental dilemma behind all these problems seems to be the illusion that unlimited growth is possible on a limited planet. Atmospheric upheavals are no longer an exception but a structural change in policy and institutions. It might be said that the climate changes, but we don't. Last Monday, the Democratic Party Group held an important seminar in the Senate on these issues, with various experts, institutional subjects, local administrators, environmental and business associations, with which it shared and reaffirmed, among the different priorities, the need to equip our country with a national strategy of adaptation to climate change. What does this have to do with Expo 2105? I am convinced that the challenge of growth and employment cannot be separated from dealing effectively with the phenomenon of climate change and the effects that these have already and will have on our territory and on the agricultural economy linked to it. In fact, according to the scientific evidence presented both in the IPCC's latest evaluation report and in the recent report of the European Environment Agency, in the coming decades Europe and in particular the Mediterranean region will face the impacts of particularly negative climate change that will turn the Mediterranean into one of the most vulnerable areas in Europe. The expected negative impacts in the coming decades are mainly related to an exceptional increase in average and maximum temperatures, the increase in frequency and intensity of extreme weather events and the reduction in average annual rainfall and river flows, resulting in a possible decline in agricultural productivity, loss of natural ecosystems and arable land. Therefore, the main objective of a European and national strategy to adapt to climate change is to develop a vision on how to address the impact of climate change in the future by identifying a set of actions and approaches to address climate change and extreme weather events. In this way it will be possible to minimise the risks arising from these changes, protect the health and well-being and the goods of the population, the products of the earth, preserve the resources and the natural heritage. That is the inseparable link between what the motion places at the heart of our reflection and climate change. I say this as a representative of a territory and a region that has experienced, like and more than others, on its skin the effects of these changes with about 2.7 billion damages to the agricultural sector only in recent years, on a system where agro-food has a very important weight especially for the local economy, export and its deep bond with the history, culture and traditions of a land. The PDO and PGI productions are concentrated in the Mediterranean countries and Italy is the nation that holds the largest number of them; in particular, Emilia Romagna and Modena, my territory, hold the largest number of them. The strength of this agri-food system, firmly embedded in a regional system, which places Emilia-Romagna first for export turnover, is given by the great variety of quality productions, by a great history linked to the experience of agricultural settlements, by traditions that have not been lost, by recognizing themselves in the identity and values linked to the transformation of the product and the consequent social cohesion of the agricultural fabric. Also for this reason it is crucial and fundamental that within Expo 2015 there is a deep reflection on how we should and can protect all this cultural richness, biodiversity, typical productions, identities and values from the upheavals that a changed climate can determine. The Italian Presidency of the next European Semester can play an important role on this issue in Europe and towards the international community, to drive and protect a very important part of its economy, the only one that during this terrible crisis that we are experiencing has represented a strong point of the country system in the world. Within a new European project for sustainable development, fair and inclusive, able to address both the economic and financial crisis and the ecological and climate crisis, promoting new green production activities, transforming many of the existing ones, it is necessary to put at the heart of Italy's initiative in Europe coherent and effective actions, including that of a global food pact. Starting from the Milan Protocol, that is, we must focus on a European agriculture of quality, without GMOs, ensuring the full integration of environmental requirements and the reduction of polluting impacts, enhancing of this agriculture the typicality as well as the multifunctional role: the role of garrison of the territory and the protection of biodiversity, of support for activities that increase employment in agriculture through the short chain, agro-energy. Only in this way will the medium to long-term relapse of Expo allow us to understand that the biodiversity of our territory, if respected and protected, can be an immense wealth even in terms of gross domestic product. I'm done, ma'am. I want to conclude by stressing how with our motion our country, through its Government, will be able to face the next months of EU presidency with an awareness and with important political support for many reasons. One of these is undoubtedly the reduction of food waste. Also for this I am proud, from his countryman, that on the occasion of Expo 2015 it is the chef sadled Michelin Massimo Bottura to realize a project of great cultural value, that - I want to remember - will involve many other Italian and international chefs: he, in fact, will work with other colleagues to propose a reuse of the food waste of the restaurants and refreshment points of Expo 2015 in the Ambrosian canteen of the needy. The idea will serve to prove that we are what we eat and that nothing edible can be considered waste, that the waste can be raw material... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, please. VACCARI (PD). ...that the fight to reduce waste can make us better people, save us, protect the environment, reduce inequalities between different parts of the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Buemi and Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u18	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u19	Madam President, I too would like to congratulate Senator Pignedoli for the valuable work and the important attention he has brought to the Chamber this morning, finally talking about the Expo in a proactive and positive way for the great value that will have not only for our country, but - I think - for the whole world. Expo 2015 is certainly an occasion of extraordinary importance for the development of our country, but it is also the great opportunity where representatives of the international community will be able to confront themselves, to make those political choices necessary to resolve one of the great Millennium Development Goals set by the UN in 2000: eliminate poverty and hunger in the world. As the 2013 report on achieving the Millennium Development Goals reveals, progress has been made. However, there is still a very serious situation with regard to the percentage of population undernourished globally, which is almost 15% in the period from 2010 to 2012. I would like above all to focus on reducing waste, on the need to take local action to reduce hunger in the world and on food education in developed countries as well as in developing countries. It is necessary and no longer procrastinable to find solutions to this unbearable reality, that is to say to this lack of achievement of the said objectives. An incredible amount of food is wasted, much more than would be needed to feed mankind that continues to starve or become ill by malnutrition. The reality we witness is almost schizophrenic: today, paradoxically, for every malnourished person in the world there are two obese or overweight. On the other hand, faced with 36 million people dying of food shortages, 29 others each year die of diseases related to excessive and incorrect nutrition. The strategic document of Expo places the food at the center of a great reflection that considers all the ideal and cultural aspects: from the fight against hunger to sustainability, health and food as an instrument of peace and cultural expression. In view of the limited time available to me, I should like to reflect mainly on two points. Firstly, I believe that it is essential to change the distortions of the food chain due to technical, economic and behavioural factors. We must recognise the positive contribution of cooperation and long-term agreements on the food supply chain between farmers, distributors and consumers. In a logic of sustainability, the valorization of local agriculture, besides being a factor of income, protection and safeguard of the territory from a hydrogeological point of view, must not be opposed to the large distribution, which risks to phagocite it. The existence and defence of small farmers brings advantages that are not negligible, starting from the health of food to ensure that they maintain their wide variety and specificity in respect of biodiversity. We must not forget all that is connected to food education, a primary source of well-being, which leads the consumer to know how to choose food consciously and to be responsible for the positive or negative repercussions that can have on their health and that of their loved ones. This applies not only to our Western world but also to developing countries, which risk copying bad practices and repeating what we are already doing in our world. And then I think about the re-exploitation of our Mediterranean diet, which was included in 2010 in the UNESCO list of the intangible heritage of humanity, as a nutritional model that has positive effects on health in terms of prevention but also as a cultural model based on all the skills, practices and traditions related to food and its social and environmental value. This diet, as we know, provides for the preferential choice of certain foods, respecting the wise times of nature, in open contrast to what is proposed to us by commercial logics that do not take care of the health of citizens but direct us towards the consumption of food absolutely unbalanced from the nutritional point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Padua, finish, please. PADUA (PD). Yes, Madam President. I repeat here what we say on many other occasions: it is really important to protect ourselves but above all our children from all those continuous stimuli that receive from the media to consume snacks, bars and anything else that, we must remember, are much worse from a nutritional point of view than a magnificent Italian pasta dish. It is absolutely not advisable to make these choices. I conclude by stressing that respecting the times of nature also means feeding with what nature gives us in the various seasons: so citrus fruits are eaten in winter because they have vitamin C and grapes are eaten in summer because it contains so much water, instead of doing the opposite and then consuming fuel, soiling our environment and polluting further, and eating incorrectly. Again, I stress the value of food as an instrument of peace: in fact, how can one think of having a more just world, without wars, a world of peace if people continue to starve to death? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Padua, this is the second time I've told you. PADUA (PD). I make a strong appeal not to forget those who still die every day, not only for wars, but also for hunger. Maybe he makes wars because he's starving. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 'He who eats forgets the hunger of others' said the Austrian physician and essayist Franz Fischer. On the basis of this conviction, according to the dramatic data released by the United Nations World Food Programme, there are 925 million hungry people at this historic moment that we are forgetting. After the partial reduction in the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s, the number of people suffering from hunger has returned dramatically to rise, due to the continuous and sudden climate change, the scarcity of agricultural infrastructure but above all the over-exploitation of the environment. Paradoxical is that, according to the latest FAO statistics, 98% of people in extreme poverty and living malnutrition in developing countries. This figure must make us reflect not only on the model of economic development adopted by these countries, geographically located in Asia, Latin America and the Near East, but also on the validity of the term "Development Countries" by Nations that do not correspond to the dizzying increase in GDP then a proportional increase in rights. Even more paradoxical is that, despite such criticalities, nothing is done to reduce the waste of tons of food, quantified annually in 1.3 billion tons, and to reduce the large public health expenditure. Indeed, properly nourishing and regulating markets are the objectives to be given to combat poverty, hunger and disease, rather than hiding economic interests behind apparent health and well-being interests. We need to think of a real food revolution and a different approach to food. This is why we also need a new food education that starts in primary schools and is inspired by recent and very valuable studies also on sustainable fruit and vegetables and alternative nutrition, as well as the European project "Fruit in schools" aimed at educating children from an early age to more correct eating habits. The consumer must be made aware of the waste of food, water and energy. It is clear, therefore, the need for a rebalancing of this unscathed management of resources, in the direction of a sharp decrease in the number of intensive farms and in the amount of land and soil used for feeding animals to the benefit of a real eco-conversion, even partial, of the zootechnics in carpotechnics, that is, in the technology applied to the fruit, which provides for cultivation using biological and biodynamic methods, and the respect of the conditions of soil and climate suitable for plant species most compatible with the human species (sweet fruit, fat fruit, vegetable fruit), through the always valid lever of the fiscal incentive. Eco-conversion into carpotechnics of animal husbandry would increase productivity and reduce production costs and also reduce the water consumption required for intensive farms. In recent years the consumption of meat and of every other food of animal origin has produced a considerable increase in the number of animals raised that in order to develop, grow and produce they also need to feed. However, the food resources consumed by these animals are far greater than those produced in the form of meat, milk and eggs. I therefore believe that it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to think of a real revolution in food education. It is important above all to rethink the evil use that we make of arable land destined, with absolute prevalence, to the zootechnics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u22	Senator Elena Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representative of the Government, motion 1-00262 under discussion in this House today addresses a matter of fundamental importance to our country. Next year's Expo is undoubtedly a great economic, commercial, development and promotion opportunity, of course, but it is first and foremost a great, great cultural bet. This is what the President of the Renzi Council called it at the last assembly of the Democratic Party: a cultural bet to win, yes, of course, with global agricultural policies, but above all with an educational pact, starting from schools. This is suggested by the same theme as Expo: "Feeding the Planet". A philosophy that remodels the relationship between man and nature on the basis of an intimate and shared awareness of how much the environment, earth, soil, water, life are themselves resources to be fed. We can do this in a logic of sustainability, innovation and quality. A new agricultural model, a fairer distribution of resources, more concrete attention to the quality of production are possible objectives. And if Italy, the country of food par excellence, the cradle of the Mediterranean diet (which has just been mentioned), called to organize the appointment on the most important food in modern history, we must all be responsibly prepared. How? This is what the President of the Council himself said these days: "In order to invest in food we must reconstruct the Italian identity." To do this, it is not enough to talk about how good Made in Italy is, we need more awareness of the extraordinary variety, tradition, territorial conformation, production and agro-food processing that our country counts. Uniqueness and heritage that must - I stress: they must - contribute to our economic recovery, being able to generate tourist, commercial and industrial opportunities; possibilities that we must cultivate by supporting research and training. We start from the school, activating training courses on food education in view of the Expo. We teach our students the value of sustainability, the importance of a fairer distribution of production, respect for food resources, passion for agriculture and breeding, the benefits of healthy food, the possibilities of reuse and the many applications of recycling, the beauty of knowing the history, that is the origin and transformation of the products that characterize our food and wine tradition. As for culture, also for the promotion of quality food it is necessary to build a conscious demand. Knowing means putting in the hands of the consumer the tools to evaluate the product and the productions. This will increase the demand for information and transparency to which the offer will have to respond. A simple and effective market rule in the fight against counterfeiting and in support of traceability. The World Environment Day, which is celebrated tomorrow all over the world, teaches us that waste is indeed an ethical and economic problem, but also a damage to the environment: throwing food means throwing away land, water and energy. Yet, according to a survey recently carried out by Waste Watchers, only four out of ten Italians are aware of this. It's a cultural problem. It is from the commitment of the individual citizen that it depends on the achievement of great goals that the international communities have set: for example, the objective of the FAO and the World Food Programme is to reduce by 50% by 2020 the current waste of more than one million and 300,000 tons of edible food. There is no need to start from scratch: there are many paths, national and international, that can offer a valuable stimulus and that we can translate into our next daily behaviors. The same National Food Waste Prevention Plan provides for the introduction of food and environmental education among compulsory subjects in schools, a national communication campaign on these issues and simpler rules for unsold food donations. According to the Food Bank every year in Italy 12 billion and 300 million euros of consumable food are thrown away. Luckily, things are slowly changing: about a billion euros in food is recovered from supermarkets and canteens and redistributed to charitable institutions. Also in Europe there are examples of good practice: like the two large refrigerators located in the yard of a Berlin condominium, supplied free of charge by supermarkets and companies that have goods close to expiry. So solidarity, but also technology, such as testing - already in place - of packages that change color as the expiry date approaches, so as to warn those who have them in the refrigerator. In addition, conscious behaviour must be promoted: for example, good fruit must not be necessarily beautiful, as has already been pointed out. These days the President-in-Office of the Council has gone to China, in the most important market in the world economy. Italian wine buys only 6% of imports: there is therefore an incalculable margin of growth for our country and the future export. In less than a year, many representatives of the nation that consumes the most rice in the world will be in Italy for the Expo. We will have the world at home, as my colleague Mrs Pignedoli said. But how do we imagine to represent our unparalleled rice production, the quality of our dishes and the beauty of our rice fields, if we can not distinguish the arborium from the carnaroli? The very important work that Mr Martina is doing on this area is very remarkable, but it must be framed in a cultural setting. I would also like to thank Mrs Pignedoli once again for this and I strongly support motion 262 (text 2). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u24	The debate is closed. I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator Candiani has asked to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an opportunity to highlight the main purpose of Expo 2015, namely, in this case, everything about food and its value. The agenda presented by the North League highlights an aspect that we consider complementary and certainly no less important than Expo that, let's remember, is hosted in Milan, therefore in Italy. We refer particularly, in addition to what has already been mentioned in the motions, to the need to put a stop to the waste of food and to promote a more conscious use of it, starting naturally from schools, where the deepest sense of the value linked to nutrition must be developed. With this agenda we highlight an aspect that we consider extremely important, precisely because Expo is an important initiative, which takes place in our country and is useful to highlight the quality and value of the food and wine productions of our territory. To this end, we call on the Government to commit itself to protecting denominations and the market from counterfeiting. Unfortunately, we are used to very high numbers. In Italy alone, the value of forgery related to agri-food amounts to more than one billion euros, but in terms of market value, the value of counterfeits related to Made in Italy is even 60 billion euros worldwide. In this regard, Madam President, I appeal to you: let us start by setting an example, making sure that there are only really Made in Italy products in the Senate cafeteria. Unfortunately, in fact, more than a year after the appeal that I already made last year, we continue to have an oil with the label with the Italian flag, with written "Olio Italia", but when you turn the bottle and you read the back label you realize that nothing Italian is there in that product. Here too, we must set an example. If you start from the examples, you can also ask citizens to be corrected in the purchase. We therefore ask the Government to move within the Community to ensure that everything that concerns Made in Italy and our agri-food production is seriously protected, without having any inhibition in terms of proposals to European partners. It is not possible that there is our subjection on these issues, given the quality of the food and wine production of our country, which stands out on the territories and which even leads Italy to have 261 products registered in the European Union register, which represent about a quarter of all protected European names and protected geographical indications. This represents, of course, a great value not to disperse and to promote. We must take into account the fact that there can be no quality of the product if there is no protection of the traditions and cultures that have produced these excellences. On this, therefore, we ask the Government to engage in appropriate campaigns of education, to make known the quality of our products and - as I said before - to engage, especially starting from schools, to promote with ad hoc campaigns feelings that lead to the prevention of food waste, starting from school canteens, to continue in families, where the person takes place and really develops. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u28	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I would simply like to speak because, since four motions and agendas have been tabled so far and there is convergence at hand, not on a single text, but to vote, probably and hopefully, in a favourable way on our part (we will then listen to the Government), we are asking for ten minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u29	As there are no comments, I suspend the sitting for ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.42 a.m. and resumed at 10.57 a.m.) I call on the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Dr Martina, to give an opinion on the motions tabled and on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u30	Madam President, I would like to begin by warmly thanking you and all the senators for the opportunity you have given the Government this morning to highlight the heart of the work that we are trying to carry out for the universal exhibition in Milan 2015. There is no doubt that at this particular time it is difficult to keep a close eye on the crucial issues that the Exposition must bring ever more to the fore, but it is precisely for this reason that a debate such as that which has developed in this House this morning is useful, and it is useful for Parliament and the Government to make mutual commitments. I would like to thank the proposers for the motions, and I would like to say at once that the main theme of the proposals and evaluations which are included in the texts of these motions and on the agenda which has been presented is largely acceptable. I think that we can first consider a point which is not very clear in the public debate, but which we absolutely must highlight: the great global food issue that we are already experiencing today is a crucial geopolitical issue that will redefine international relations, reconfigure the relationship between states and continents and will also redefine a large part of the debate that will be held within states on development models and sustainability, not only environmental but also economic and social. I really think that the Expo, if it is interpreted as it will have to be, i.e. as a platform for global dialogue on these fronts, will be able to help the international agenda, which is already structured and has its own timing and some crucial steps, to develop. You have rightly placed all your reflections within the more strategic framework of the international agenda of the United Nations and of what is being done to try, in autumn 2015, to redefine the UN objectives of the Millennium, as well as the whole discussion after the meeting in Bali, with some intermediate steps that, in particular, we can help to develop: I am referring to the FAO agenda and some appointments that, precisely in Rome, will be held in November of this year, and then, later, to a number of other steps. We must, therefore, truly conceive of our efforts to prepare for Expo 2015 in this key. We do well to highlight some crucial paradoxes of the global food issue that we are already experiencing, such as the great contradiction between obesity and malnutrition, the great theme of waste and that, not trivial and difficult to understand, of the use of agricultural raw materials not for food purposes, but to manage - for example - machinery, and the whole game that you know linked to the new systems of feeding these situations. I believe we can reflect on the fact that the Universal Exposition, by its nature, being an instrument to which the Governments adhere, can really be a platform of dialogue and comparison even more dynamic and more attractive than some classical institutional fora within which the use of some institutional instruments limits the scope of the confrontation. Here I would like to add a further element that I believe can be a fundamental feature of the Italian proposal towards Expo 2015. We are all too often used to thinking that international agreements and international discussions on some of these issues should only be developed within the public space, within the relationship between the institutions. Now this is indispensable. As I said before, when we look in particular at the international agenda, in particular at the UN agenda and at the whole major issue of redefinition of the objectives of the post-2015 Millennium, it is clear that it is the cornerstone of the work we must do towards the Expo. But there is a point above all on the great issue of the sustainability of development models in a food key, and therefore all the topic that has to do with agricultural productions and their sustainability - as was rightly said - in an environmental, social and economic key, which calls into question, rather than on other issues, a relationship with the private subject that we must focus on in the work we must do towards the Expo. I say this because, even in the hypothesis of propositions such as those recalled more or less by all the motions and by the order of the round about a manifesto in Milan that can highlight some commitments and some big issues, I think we can help to develop this discussion if we have the ambition to call into question also on these fundamental texts not only the institutional field, the public space, but in particular the large private subjects, who make the difference especially on some issues: think about food waste. Certainly much can be done on the side of public commitments, but it is quite evident - as has been recalled by some motions - that there is a point of challenge and confrontation with the private space that we must call into question within this work. So I'm very happy to tell you that we make many of the inputs and objectives that you recall in your motions and agenda and that they will be on this government's agenda for the Expo. I am referring in particular to the fact that we will try as much as possible to link the work that the Government will do during the Presidency of the European Semester and the Universal Exhibition. I am also saying here that the Council of European Agriculture Ministers, which will be informally held at the end of September in Milan, will be featured on the main theme of Expo. We have already discussed this with our fellow Europeans, and the attention of European governments and the European Commission will be great, precisely to bring the informal Council at the end of September to focus on the great theme of Expo, "Feeding the planet, energy for life". That will be the first step. A second fundamental step will be done during the six months of the Expo. In particular, in June 2015, we will host in the Expo a global and international forum of the Ministers of Agriculture of the 147 Countries participating in the Exposition. In that place there will be a point of maximum evidence of the confrontation that we can organize from now and also of the themes that have been recalled from the motions that have been presented. I imagine that in June 2015, also thanks to this appointment, we will be able to set some commitments and some shared objectives. I remind everyone that in that semester we enter in a formidable span of time because we precede precisely autumn 2015 and, therefore, the final stage of preparation of the discussion that will then be held in October 2015 in the UN. This, to talk about post-Bali agenda. There is no doubt that we can develop this work, particularly on the new international agricultural frontier, also calling into question, as I said before, the associations and the productive realities of the agricultural and agri-food sector. In this regard, I say with great positivity that the Italian agricultural associations are taking charge of organizing a schedule of commitments and appointments that meet this objective. There are already European and international milestones on the agenda that will call in Italy global and international agricultural associations and international agricultural networks to discuss some of the issues that have been mentioned before. This is no more than the definition of an Italian commitment that corresponds to the ambition, which we rightly have, to make the Expo a great opportunity for discussion. The European Commission, as you know, has already prepared a programme and some key lines of action that will also result in a strategic document of the same Commission for Expo Milano 2015, and we are working on this too. I think there are all the conditions for making the Expo an opportunity that highlights an Italian protagonism on a European and international scale within this general scenario. I also think that within this dimension we can highlight the characteristic features of the Italian agricultural model, which has peculiarities (we have said it several times), already only for the territorial conformation, for the fact that we are a peninsula within a closed sea, for the distinctive characteristics of our agriculture in its organizational models and in its quality productions. Here there is also a great theme that deals with a strategic title for us, that is how we can reconstruct a strategy, not only of defence, but also of expansion of the Italian agricultural and agri-food chain, and how we can leverage on some sectors of excellence of the Italian agricultural model, not only recognizing it for what it is, but developing some strengths within this new field. I would like to refer here to a number of points which we have already had occasion to discuss together (I remember in this House). If we are talking about defending geographical indications on a European scale, but above all on an international scale, we are talking about one of the great new fronts on which the debate on how we can really make a strategic positioning operation of the Italian agricultural and agri-food model is open. This work goes through a difficult trade of comparison in international relations, which has very clear precipitates: trade agreements. I quote one for all: the EU-US agreement which is being laboriously deepened precisely in these weeks. There we will have to prepare ourselves, and we are preparing ourselves, to organise a level of proposal-making that raises the level of confrontation with these great players. If we speak (as we rightly do) of expansion, that is to say of a stronger and clearer work aimed at engaging the international trade networks and therefore working on Italian agri-food exports more than we have been able to do so far (despite the good data that we all recognize), we have to put another great theme. Italian agri-food qualities must be protected against counterfeiting, but then there is one point: those qualities must be brought to these markets, because one defends against counterfeiting by removing from the shelf what must not exist, but then that shelf cannot remain empty, it must be filled; but, to fill it, one must organize a strategy that allows the true Italian agri-food qualities to go and fill those shelves (it is another great front). Can Expo help us? Certainly, because there we can try to start a new season, even setting up some new instruments. We are working on it, just as we are working on the connection between that exhibition site, that great appointment in that fundamental place of Italy that is Milan, and the whole territory. You will see that in the next few days will advance some projects that we have elaborated up to here (already today it is taken into account on the press), aimed precisely at this objective: to reverberate throughout the national territory the opportunity of Expo, allow the territories, specialties, specific Italian agri-food and the different Italian agricultures to connect to that appointment, linking in particular the Italian agri-food experience to the great theme of the valorization of our places and therefore also to the great receptive, tourist and cultural theme. We have taken concrete steps, we have started working with the Regions and we have organized a first path, not trivial. Can you do more? Certainly, yes, but there are facts that allow us to say that Expo is no longer just a theme for that Region and that city: it is already a fact for all the national territory today. I also say here that there are cities and territories that, without waiting for the Government (this must be recognized to them), have imagined how to connect to that great appointment, have put in the field of tools, have moved and have also produced working hypotheses anything but trivial. There are other territories, other cities that are more struggling: our task is to accompany this work, and we are doing so. Ultimately, I believe that, even through the debate this morning, we can truly recognize ourselves in a shared agenda that will make the Universal Exhibition of Milan an opportunity for the whole country, that will feed as much as possible the centrality of this theme and that will help not only the success of that event in those six months, but also a public discussion on how Italy thinks itself within this new world and this new scenario. I don't think we can say - and we never said this - that Expo 2015 is the panacea for all evils, but I think it's a mistake not to recognize this as a fundamental lever to redefine a piece of the development of this country. Since, on the table, when we measure the projects, ambitions, efforts and energies that we are all trying to put in place for this event, the positive elements clearly prevail, I think we can work together. I would add that the proven proof of what I am saying is also in the first practical results, which are however not trivial: 3 million tickets already sold, of which more than half a million sold in China (so the goal of touching 800,000-900,000 tickets with the only large space assigned to China in this exhibition is really within reach). One final point: let us really help to raise the level of ambition. There are problems, but problems are dealt with, solved and overcome. Before us, China, after us, the Arab Emirates. In between is Italy and therefore Europe, the Italy that will be the only European country to host from here to fifteen years a universal exhibition. Legitimately, we have had, up to here, a doubt regarding the effectiveness, in the new time, of a Universal Exposition: many have legitimately argued that the Exposition, at the bottom, is an instrument of the twentieth century and we need to reinterpret it, if we want to have a function in this time, because we do not move to go to a place to see a novelty, when just a click. However, the characteristics on which we founded this exhibition, the power of that theme and some originality on which Italy has worked to represent it are determining a new centrality of the instrument of the Universal Exposition. Think only of the enormous novelty, in the international comparison, consisting of clusters, which are spaces where for the first time a country does not represent itself but confronts itself on some fundamental food supply chains with other countries. I do not know if that is all, but I know that Italy can be seriously considered on the international agenda for this effort. I therefore believe that everything we can do in these classrooms to fuel this debate must be done. On the motions and on the agenda, I should like to ask for some rewording, so that I can give an opinion. On motion 262 (text 2) of Senator Pignedoli and other senators, I express my support without any emphasis. On Senator Formigoni's motion 269 and other senators, I would like to ask for a slight rewording of point 5 (a). After the words 'the creation of new varieties', I propose to insert the words: 'with the exception of GMO productions'. With this small addition, the Government's opinion is favourable. As regards Senator Gaetti's first-signed motion No 275, I should like to ask for a number of amendments: first of all, I would like to propose that points 3 and 12 of the proposal be deleted; in point 4 I would also propose a reorientation to this effect: to take appropriate steps to ban GMO cultivation on national territory, including open field experimental crops, in accordance with European law. As far as the G1 agenda is concerned, I propose two minor amendments. Firstly, in the paragraph in which reference is made to the consumption of food of quality PDO and PGI and the theme of obesity arises, I would ask, again in this case, for a recomposition linking the concept of obesity in relation to diets more than to products and eliminating the reference to pathological states, since it seems to me at risk of interpretation; in essence, it is a question of removing the final part of the paragraph, from the words "also" aimed at limiting up to "the younger age groups of the population". Secondly, in point 4 of the operative part, I propose to replace the words'main objective' with 'basic objective'.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u31	I would ask the authors of the motions and the agenda to accept the request for reformulation proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u32	Yes, Madam President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u33	All right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u34	I accept you, too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u35	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u38	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, my fellow Senators, Minister, Vice-Minister, I assure you with this speech of the vote of Civic Choice to the motions that have been presented, with the additions proposed by the Minister and accepted by the presenters. Expo 2015 is certainly an important opportunity for Italy but also for the whole of Europe and for the international community. Despite everything, the old Europe, which, wanting to defend its privileges, together with its civil and social conquests, lags behind in global competition, once again, as it did already in Kyoto, Copenhagen and Rio de Janeiro, calls the world to pay attention to the resources of the earth, to reason with different paradigms compared to growth without rules, to deal with the reality of a planet that is "finite" and not infinite, like its resources. Welcome, then, to a high reflection of the most representative institutions of the country on these issues and well come also a strong declaration of intent, a political direction to the Government, to the European governments so that the theme agriculture, food, fight against hunger, distribution of wealth is really the heart of the next universal exhibition. However, ladies and gentlemen, we do not fall into the rhetoric of appeals for goodwill. We are Italian legislators, the Government is European co-legislator. Seventy-three people, less than a month ago, were elected to our country in the world's largest democratic parliament to solve these problems. I would remind you that agriculture, fisheries and international trade are the exclusive competence of the European Union and that the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) and the CAP has recently been approved. Finally, I would remind you that the decision to proceed with bilateral trade negotiations is the result of the failure of the Doha negotiations, only partially corrected a few months ago, mainly due to the difficulty of addressing the agricultural issue at global level, or even the impossibility of defining at multilateral level many of the issues that have been referred to as desirable in these motions. Only a renewed European and international protagonism of Italy, fully aware of its task as co-legislator at European level and therefore participating in the decision-making processes at global level, will allow us to transform our appeals - which risk leaving the time they find - into norms, treaties, international agreements that really address the issues of access to the earth, the exploitation of land, respect for ecosystems, the distribution of crops, the reduction of CO2 emissions due to the demand for off-season goods circulating in the world, the right to food, the fight against waste and the fight against obesity. We are sure that the new Common Agricultural Policy, the new Common Fisheries Policy, the new system of generalized preferences in relations with the poorest countries, the bilateral negotiations within the WTO that are being defined, go in this direction and that these issues are at the centre of our attention, when, often bureaucratically, we accept decisions taken at international level. A few days after the assumption of the presidency of the European Union, the Italian Government has the opportunity to define a more concrete agenda, more incisive than our generic appeals, which forces the world to face itself on issues on which the old Europe is ahead but on which others - the emerging countries - anticipate development logics of which we know the defects but of which they have not yet been able to appreciate and enjoy the benefits. Hence the urgency of a revival of political protagonism at the global level of the world's first economic power, without which for a few hours we would have washed our conscience and then returned to old habits immediately afterwards. We have the instruments, if we think in a European and supranational logic. The national governments stop, on these and on other issues, closing in on their own egoism and becoming global actors and protagonists, co-legislators fully aware at European level, and then, perhaps, even these issues can find a solution in the only dimension in which they can really be addressed: supranational, and now even global. [[Applause from Senators Lanzillotta and Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u41	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, the motions before us, under the proposal of a 'Global Food Pact', have presented us with a picture of issues and aims that are certainly diverse, but also closely linked today, which photograph a problematic situation through the first alarming fact: 1.3 billion tons of edible food ends up wasted every year; an even more disconcerting figure compared to the 868 million people who are in malnutrition all over the world. These figures, together with others provided in the motions, pose a series of questions on different issues that revolve around some key parameters: environmental sustainability, the optimization of agricultural productivity, the careful management of resources and energy sources, the most strictly food issues; a multiplicity of themes that represent as many challenges for a country as ours, characterized by a precious natural environment and rich in potential that ask to be channeled into challenging projects. Surely talking about problems related to the so-called food deficit of our country may seem out of place but if you frame the issue not only national and approach these critical issues related to the crisis, it is possible to review certain approaches of an economic and regulatory nature, being these the new premises within which the Italian and non-Italian food supply chains will have to operate. As these are the new premises within which the Italian and non-Italian food supply chains will have to operate, it is evident that the very concept of food safety and availability must be revised and adapted to parameters that are constantly evolving, but that cannot neglect the needs and economic potential of the country, while guaranteeing the environmental sustainability and the definition of a culture able to counter the paradoxes that the data presented give us. With this in mind, Expo 2015 is an important opportunity for the valorization of new approaches, that know how to be innovative and alternative, that regarding the future of Italian agriculture allow to approach the production of quality food, in quantity, promoting our food chain in a framework of environmental sustainability. In such a complex, economically and socially, such as the present one, this is not only a challenge, but also a viable alternative, which integrates in a single perspective the need for and the possibility of coexistence between agriculture and the environment. These are two aspects that cannot and must not be seen as conflicting realities where the advantage of one coincides with the compromise of the other. At the level of the national agricultural system, security combined with the sustainability of agri-food production is therefore an important synthesis through which to ensure adequate competitiveness. All this, however, must go for the identification of development models that are also quality assurance. Italy is a model of excellence on this side, considering that it has made quality an indisputable condition of agricultural competitiveness, also given the impossibility of being able to count on large economies of scale. How, however, is it possible to preserve such a model of development, adapting it to the evolution of the economic-productive scenario and identifying appropriate regulatory and regulatory parameters? I believe that, within this framework, the legislator is primarily called upon to involve all actors, both entrepreneurship and research, in order to provide analyses and interesting ideas for improving the regulatory structure in this area. Moreover, a changing environment, like this one, requires a system of rules and controls, at international level, that are really effective, in order to avoid disturbing drifts, in speculative terms and in poor supervision. At the same time, however, these rules are required to reflect the territorial specificities of each national reality, balancing the needs of the different sectors, in order to avoid that sustainability becomes only an ideological flag, in the name of which entire production chains can be brought to their knees. I am talking, for example, about those related to agroenergy which cannot and must not be demonised, because their strategic nature is not taken into account. We must remember that we are not starting from scratch in this approach, because Community policies have long been moving in this direction. Precisely for this reason, at the moment, the priority should be to ensure the implementation of the agri-food measures provided for, for example, by the CAP, identifying or providing good practices that can arise as a European model or more generally transnational. I would remind you that one of the objectives of the CAP is to support agriculture in its multifunctional role in society, both through the production of food that meets safety standards and through the sustainable development of rural areas, the protection and promotion of the agricultural environment and its biodiversity. It may seem like a puzzle: on the one hand, the need to increase productivity by increasing demand and, on the other hand, the European commitments and the constraints of the new directives, which call for increasing attention to the environment. The increase in productivity must therefore go hand in hand with the identification of instruments and standards for environmental protection, because it is unthinkable at present to reason in terms of growth, competitiveness and development by neglecting the variable of sustainability, also because of food and environmental safety that is unavoidable. To this security we are reminded of responsibility for future generations, but also for the people who today are in unfavourable conditions. By accepting the validity of this new economic equation - if we want to frame it - we must consider how indispensable it is to open the way to innovative projects that make experimentation and research viable instruments of activity. All this well to speak, it must be translated, in concreteness, also in an indispensable valorization of the role of the actors involved, starting in this way a virtuous dynamic from below, that knows to interest the supply chains at all levels, also in order to trigger the necessary processes of monitoring and containment of the waste that affect the Italian agro-food sector. These processes must cover the entire production and marketing chain, including the packaging and disposal phases. All this can find a starting point in the figure of the farmer, whose role and potential should be framed to make it really guardian of the territory, the first guarantor of the safety of production and protagonist in the dynamics of production and marketing, marked by sustainability. A perspective that certainly requires further administrative simplification efforts. Probably this is one of the first steps of sustainable innovation in the agro-food sector: to rediscover or renew the rural protagonism of certain subjects deposed over the decades by intensive and speculative agriculture by identifying new practical tools, as well as adequate economic support, which would allow to carry out these new projects in the best possible way. Here emerges the responsibility of the institutions, first of all of Parliament, and of Parliament's confrontation with the competent Dicasteries. One example, among others: the Ministry of the Environment is the Dicastery for the recent directive on the sustainable use of plant health products, with its national action plan whose general objective is precisely the development of a sustainable intensive agriculture through the elimination, for example, of the risk and the promotion of a virtuous and integrated agriculture, with more careful monitoring of crop diseases, more targeted interventions for their control. This regulatory framework alone, however, is not enough: it deserves - to be more functional - to be implemented at local level in this synergistic perspective, which involves the whole system, from institutions to farmers. Certainly, in this perspective, the measure on the simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural and agri-food sector, currently being discussed here in the Senate, is also an interesting step ahead of Expo 2015. It is in this spirit and with this ambition that I declare my Group's vote in favour of the majority motion against which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. I would also ask that the remaining part of my speech be added. [[Applause from the PI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u42	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u45	RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, first of all, I would like to ask that I sign motion 269, which was first signed by Senator Formigoni. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Ruvolo. RUVOLO (GAL). Minister, in your conclusions, which I shared, you traced a somewhat realistic, somewhat futuristic, somewhat imaginary picture. I hope you're right in the end. If you are right, you will be right about farms, our farmers and the system of Italian and international agriculture. You said, referring to the European Semester under the Italian Presidency and to the Expo 2015 (and I agree in full), that it is very rarely that two extraordinary moments are contiguous. An opportunity like this may never happen again. That is why we must work hard, and that is why you, Minister, must cooperate more - let me do so - with the Commission on the substance, with the Senate House and the other branch of Parliament in order to be able to release the best resources, energy and ideas to do more and better. That is the final objective, as you pointed out in your speech. I agree with you. But we also need correspondence, comparisons and suitable ways of conceiving a project, a model of agriculture, first Italian and then international. Feeding the planet. Energy for life. We want to feed the planet, and we also want to feed it well, with all the difficulties, of course, with everything that is the entire global system, with very strong negative falls. The Italian Presidency and the great world event of the Expo represent an opportunity that must be combined, to be concrete and not always remain vague, with some precise goals. Question one. I would simply like to ask the Government to start talking, on the European table, about issues which essentially mark the interest of the Italian producer in labelling. We can't suffer anymore. We want the products to be labelled and the buyers to have the certainty of what they are comparing, to avoid counterfeiting, fraud, to prevent what is happening today. This alarm cry is not just this morning. We have already launched this in a previous question time when, with you, Minister, we talked about agromafie, which are no longer only Italian, but international. When products come from all over and without control, our ability to produce excellence and to give concrete answers to the real problems of Italian agriculture, which are linked to those of European and international agriculture, is brought to its knees. We need to be sure of what foods are being produced. Food security, you pointed out, I confirm it: it is a great battle that must be on the European table and on that of the Expo. When, on those two occasions, there will be that moment of confrontation with more than 140 countries, which you, Minister, are organizing, in my opinion will have to have a strong impact on food security. I cannot tolerate, and I will never tolerate, the conclusion at European level of an agreement with Morocco without having the certainty of how food from that country is produced. You, Minister, know better than I what is happening, and I also address the President. It happens that while our products are regularly treated according to a precise European protocol, products from Morocco are still treated with pesticides that are pure poison, medicines of the so-called class A. Is it possible to tolerate this? That meeting must therefore be a great opportunity to clarify these issues. On food education, of course we all agree: fruit in schools, great investments in Europe with the contribution of Italy. However, I cannot consider it a good thing that from Morocco and Spain we have to feed our children with fruit. Let's do something serious. Where possible, we apply the zero kilometer criterion to give our children and young people quality products and to encourage and make known our productions. I do not even want to talk about the prevention of food waste, as it is obvious. As for the system of controls, Minister, on the Government's agenda, I would add an international control mechanism. It is no longer possible for him to arrive and exchange everything and everything. We need to create an international control body on the origin of products, both those arriving in Italy and those exported. Safeguarding rural property has now become a categorical imperative. The large investments, which come from international sources (we all know this now), buy our land with low hands: but do we want to safeguard Italian agriculture, not by imposing duties and sanctions, but by creating a different model on the issue of agricultural property? Mr Minister, I would like to suggest something that you have not mentioned. Water, precious good: water is life, water is everything. For agriculture, above all, water is excellence, it is something important. Spend a word to avoid waste of water, but above all to encourage in the Italian system all those infrastructures necessary to help a quality agriculture. The Expo, as you pointed out, is a dynamic tool of comparison, outside the classical liturgies. I totally agree. Enough liturgies: this is a very important occasion, because it is confrontation, dialectic, even confrontation, but the only objective must be to imagine an agriculture that gives safety and certainty for the health of men, but also a income capacity for our farmers. I agree with the large private entities: let us make sure that there is a partnership, not just of the public, and let us help the private. Together we can create a great synergy to develop agriculture in the world, but - I support - in Europe and particularly in Italy. Let's create this model. I refuse, however, to imagine that in this great model it must always be the master of the large organized distribution. We also need to find appropriate answers on this issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish. RUVOLO (GAL). Madam President, one more joke. I am not against large-scale organized distribution, but this cannot make prices. So let's shorten the supply chain. The producer must have his income, the consumer must have a good price and those who have a sufficient income. It is not possible to put those who produce and consume in opposite conditions, creating truly extraordinary inequalities. Minister, we must involve the territories: we have already said so, and once again I confirm it. You want to cooperate: you will have all the cooperation you deserve and want, but you often confront this House, Parliament and the Commission. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u48	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is really the first time that the themes of Expo have arrived in this House, not from the media point of view, deformed by what is happening around you, but precisely because of the content. It is also true that the issue of food, in this case linked to agriculture, is absolutely central to us. He will understand, therefore, the Minister that we go even further than Expo, with political statements such as the one we have just made and that other colleagues have also stressed, regarding the importance of protecting the country's food supply chain. The Minister will not escape the attention that must be given, not simply as a substitute, but precisely because this corresponds to our history and to a culture that needs to be known in the world for its diversity. Minister, these days we are talking about constitutional reforms, and no one, of course (god, someone might be), questions the protection of minorities. We must make a very similar argument about agri-food: it is certainly not because there are large groups which, unfortunately, also through the European Union, tend to homogenise the agri-food supply chain. We must adapt to these definitions. On the other hand, it is necessary to protect, protect and - in this case, I acknowledge that I have rightly said this before - promote those niche productions, which are not simply such, but which represent an added value, especially for a culture such as ours which has always benefited from food and wine, both in commercial terms and in terms of health for food. In the illustration of the motions, a little has been said in all ways about the importance and need for protection against the dispersion of food and food waste. I do not deny that many of the statements contained in the motions are acceptable regardless, perhaps also because they are so obvious that they cannot find a contrary position. In this regard, however - and in this sense I appeal to the Government - I would not like the obvious statements contained in the motions to be an excuse for neglecting them later. It is obvious that neither a drop of water nor a gram of food should be wasted, but it is equally true that this happens every day and in any case. Certainly, Minister, if you have to leave, you have to start from Expo 2015; but you have to start from the education of the youngest, from the schools. We must also start from a country that must succeed in asserting itself within a world that instead tends to globalize and homogenize productions. This seems to stifle, in fact, with the need to feed the less fortunate part of the world, where reasoning on the protection of niche productions appear paradoxical at least. We must contemper the two elements and succeed in giving agri-food resources to large masses, but without losing sight of what has made us rich in the past centuries, in cultural and agronomic terms. We have put a lot on our agenda on the protection of the country's food supply chain, starting from its typical regional characteristics: we know that the Minister has committed himself to this, just as we know that the European lobbies seek in every way to hinder this path, which is not at all obvious, because what for us means affirmation of a tradition, for others obviously means confrontation of the market. It is also true that those who know our agro-food characteristics well know that an Italian product for the brand alone acquires a value in much greater commercial terms, up to three, four or ten times greater than that of other countries. A great deal has already been said about labelling, but basically we need a solution and a definition of the path, as well as implementation. I repeat, the thing that worries me most about these motions is not the content - on which, as I said, there can only be broad convergence - but the fact that, precisely because they are obvious things, so obvious that they cannot not be subscribed, they pass into oblivion, as happens with so many other motions. Madam President, Minister, we will insist that there be respect for our culture and that, above all, a market be defended. Expo is a great opportunity: there are not only the problems that have come out in recent days. That is why I believe that the very fact of having removed from the motion tabled by Movement 5 Stars the part relating to procurements does justice to a path that has nothing to do with today's debate. If we talk about the culture of food, we must do so not in a rhetorical but concrete mine, and on this we will of course measure the government's commitment. Having said that, I am voting in favour of the Lega Nord Group's motion for a resolution and our agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u51	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak in advance of my Group's vote in favour of the motions and the agenda presented, with the changes that have been made here in this House. I would like to give a particularly positive opinion, however, on the motion tabled by Senator Pignedoli, because I believe that it intervenes in a more organic way and with a system approach on a complex and delicate topic such as that of food and food that, at the time of the greatest food production in history, remains a central problem, to which an adequate solution has not yet been given. With all the motions, however, I believe there is an effort to exploit the force of attraction of an event that has worldwide relevance as Expo 2015 and that so far has jumped to the honours of the news more for judicial facts or for an insufficient organization and strategic vision than for the opportunities that it really represents. It is an event that has a relevance not only for the development and relaunch of the Italian economic system and for the promotion on the international markets of the agri-food products of our territories, but also to arrive to conclude with all the 140 countries that will participate in the Universal Exhibition a global pact for food. Not only, therefore, a showcase of products (of course important, but - as the Minister said this morning in this Chamber - almost anachronistic), but a place to translate ideas and contents into something tangible that remains even after the end of the event, with the hope that it can then be translated into concrete commitments towards Europe. All this I believe deserves more attention and support than we have seen in recent months and years: an attention and support that try to resolve some contradiction that I also read - I say not with a biased vision, but with a vision that I believe is objective - between what Minister Martina said here today about Italian agriculture as a fact of real competitiveness and the purpose of a unique brand that I believe would be a disaster for our Italian agriculture; between what has been produced following the agreement with the Regions on the CAP and what instead represent the ambitions of our agriculture that he would like to find, in a dialogue with the territories and the regions, the possibility of putting in place levels and standards of real competition. However, I do not want to repeat here the numbers and data that have already been recalled by those who intervened before me and which are widely reported in the text of Senator Pignedoli's document, but I would like to briefly highlight only two of the many significant aspects touched on in the motions. Firstly, I am referring to the need to give back to agriculture its own role and that in recent years I believe it has also lost its central role in the debate and agenda of the Government, which is to produce mainly for food purposes, and to restore a better balance between agricultural production to be used for food and agricultural production to be used for other purposes, such as energy. In fact, in recent decades, the political directives have unfortunately generated remarkable paradoxes, among which the expansion of energy crops also, and perhaps even more, in the areas where hunger dies. The experience gained suggests that we set aside this model of development to encourage sustainable agricultural practices that look more at traditional food crops: the motion Pignedoli moves in this direction, in my opinion appropriately. Secondly, I want to point out that today the world would produce more than enough food to feed its entire population, but paradoxically nearly 900 million people still suffer from hunger and almost twice as much are malnourished. The relationship between undernourished and overnourished is almost one by one. On the one hand, there is a world that suffers from malnutrition and, on the other, there is a world where the number of people with obesity and overweight problems is constantly increasing with all the health problems related to excessive nutrition, which, among other things, has negative effects on health spending, as well as causing a very high number of deaths. The really serious thing is that a third of what is produced in terms of food each year is thrown away. Something's not working. I believe that we are all called upon to take action to correct this distortion, to stop this scandalous phenomenon of food waste which affects a large part of the planet and which raises deep ethical and social questions. I am convinced that we can combine together the aspects of food production, responsible consumption and waste to overcome inequalities in access to resources, so that we can feed the entire population of our planet. I believe that it is possible to respond at the same time to both the need to exploit resources and the urgent need to safeguard the environment for future generations. It is for these reasons that we express our support for the measures before the House today with the changes introduced, with the hope and hope that through the commitments that we are asking for today, the Government will be able to move more quickly precisely in the direction set out to promote the conclusion of the global food pact. The challenge of nutrition is global and can only be won through a coordinated, harmonious and synergistic action of all nations. We also hope that today's debate, the Expo and, even earlier, the European Semester of the Italian Presidency will help and encourage the Government to change towards agriculture too. We cannot accept that our participation in Europe should become a noose around agriculture. We need to invest in an agricultural model that brings out our potential. It is no longer possible to participate in a Europe that preaches the recognition of quality and that, just to give an example, shows us the path of protected geographical indication when the regulation governing that symbol and that brand allows any economy to produce a mozzarella by buying milk from Germany, working in France and packing it in Campania or Puglia. This is a Europe we do not like and the Expo and the European Semester can be a useful opportunity to affirm these principles and potential. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u54	WRITER IN TOR (NCD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that as a New Centre we will vote in favour of the three motions and the agenda presented, with the changes that the Government has proposed. I also believe that the arguments expressed by the Minister in the conclusions are acceptable. To this end, I would like to point out that in our motion we call for the government to move above all on seven priority issues which we consider essential for the Expo and the agricultural policy. The first is to increase world agricultural production. Food needs will be increasing over the next few decades and, therefore, it is necessary to ensure balance and attention to ecological sustainability and to prepare programmes that address the essential issue of improving production yields through the creation of new varieties, more appropriate irrigation techniques, suitable production equipment and valid collection, conservation and transport techniques. It is also necessary to use the few margins available to extend the arable land through the recovery of the land to pasture or uncultivated with multi-year productions and an international discipline of investment funds aimed at the purchase of arable land, favoring re-greening and productive reforestation. The aim is to further reduce malnutrition and hunger. The second point is to safeguard the ecological capital of agriculture: the use of appropriate production techniques is linked, among other things, to agricultural programming, which must be oriented towards non-monocultural agriculture, which avoids highly intensive practices in developed countries and the so-called "minerary" agriculture (use of soil-plant resources in a non-renewable but exhausted way) in emerging countries. To this end, the interest in producing biofuels from primary agricultural production should be discouraged, while the recovery of the various available by-products for this purpose remains optimal. The third point is to address the pressing demand for animal and vegetable protein. It is very important to prepare programmes to develop efficient and healthy agro-zootechnical systems, especially in emerging countries, but also in advanced ones, in order to respond to these growing food demands, especially in urban areas. The consumption of milk, eggs and meat must be the subject of an appropriate food education, to which international organizations and governments must adhere. Plant foods of high protein value, including promotions of the use of vegetable milk (such as soy milk or rice milk), also produced from seeds of many other species, especially for vegetarians and for those who are allergic to various compounds present in animal milk, should also be promoted. The fourth point is to disseminate rural development experiences. Modern rurality is the result of an advanced form of development, in which rural space is not a spatial or economic periphery, but is part of a process of global restructuring involving an increasing number of cross-sectoral and international relations. This is the conceptual framework best suited to the development of rural and agri-food districts: rural areas are defined as a low population density area where a mixed economy is present, characterised by agriculture and other economic activities (crafts, small and medium-sized industries, tourism), which tend to integrate and maintain an acceptable balance with the rural environment. The salient character of the rural territory is the balance of the components and the distinctive capacity of the local places and products. The fifth point is to combat waste in the food supply chain. The waste of food includes two cases. Firstly, the loss of food, that is the unintentional reduction of the availability of food for the human consumption that derives from the inefficiencies in the supply chain, for different reasons, such as the inadequacy of the infrastructures and the logistics, the limits of the available technology, the insufficient preparation of the operators or the lack of financial availability for investments. The loss of food is found in the production chain, from agriculture to processing, from transport to storage. Secondly, the waste also includes the waste of food, assessed as the intentional loss of food products, mainly at distributors and consumers, due to company or individual behaviour. Each year, according to FAO estimates, food waste reaches an astonishing 1.3 billion tonnes, with an economic loss of 750 billion dollars per year. The sixth point is to promote the development of agriculture and aquaculture in emerging countries. Developed countries will have to develop efficient policies of technical and political support to increase the well-being of the inhabitants of emerging countries, through technologies that optimize the use of land, water and resources locally available. Only an increase in local well-being in emerging countries will be able to respond to the increase in the population and curb the emigration of their populations to developed countries. The seventh point is to involve citizens towards greater attention to nutritional models. The institutions will need to develop an incisive consumer education, which will have to be aware of the primary value of food. Unfortunately, misuse and overuse of food is particularly frequent and growing in urban conglomerates, causing obesity and increased organic diseases and dysfunctions. It will therefore be necessary to encourage the orientation to healthier nutritional models, such as that typical of the Mediterranean diet, through the strengthening of scientific and technological research, the preparation of a strong institutional campaign of communication and information to citizens (in the family and in the school) and the incentive to adopt lifestyles based on physical activity and sport. I believe that the approval of these points of our motion together with the other motions that will be approved today, I assume, unanimously, is fundamental for the great opportunity that we have to give a signal regarding Expo 2015, this great tool that not only can allow our country to face the global confrontation on these issues and to develop it especially in 2015, but can also be the basis on which we can decree a new development, more compatible, in our country. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u57	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, we find it creative, ingenious and paradoxical to say the least, starting from Expo 2015 and talking about food security or the development of agriculture, when the demonstration itself saw the change of use in favour of cement, at the very expense of those agricultural land that we should protect. Equally paradoxical and retrograde is talking about development in general, when these governments, always of broad understanding when it comes to drawing public funds, have felt the ancestral need to make such an exhibition in the age of the Internet, when today I can close a trade agreement with Japan or Australia in a click, while bringing together the various potential partners in a single place has a logistical caratura to say the least difficult. But we know: the concept of economic efficiency is not exactly the prerogative of this ruling class. Does the trade fair crisis mean anything to you? There are no visitors at the fairs, and what do we do? We organize a huge one, which costs a lot of money. This paradox is even more supported by those two or three little scanners that we never miss, linked to the disposal of illegal waste, mob association, corruption, scam and so on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I mean, for you, nothing new under the sun. Or do we want to talk about the real or supposed relations and favors between politics and now under arrest? I would like to make a particular remark to Mr Martina here, whom we have asked a question. Minister, I would like to address you: we will see if you are worthy to report to the Chambers on your alleged links, which have emerged from press sources, with Primo Greganti. He says he knows you very well, you have denied it, so there is one of the two who lies: and we look forward to your presence in Parliament to listen to your version of the facts, which seems to us quite in connection with this affair. Do I have to go on? But you know, our calls to integrity and honesty are now chanting to you, while for us they remain fundamental points, since we have no economic interests in your procurement. So much so, economic recovery always passes by the same companies and their satellites, friends of friends, an extended family, a family of saints'stinks. Companies involved in Expo 2015 that have judicial records certificates equal to the shopping list of a family of ten people! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The Expo means works of cementiferous growth that did not feel the need and, as usual, works that will see the light after the conclusion of the review and that therefore have little to do with all the beautiful words that we have said today. The cathedrals in the desert were not enough as the useless structure in the middle of the park of Tor Vergata or the examples deriving from the bridge on the Strait of Messina (by the way: are you convinced that it still serves?). As we have said and as we repeat, the Expo 2015 is uneconomic, useless, inefficient and absolutely inadequate for one of its objectives: the revival of tourism. But please: do we have the most important landscape and artistic heritage in the world and do we need Expo? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Monuments fall apart, and what will be told to these 20 million expected viewers? In the meantime we have brought you there, look at the stands; then, if any ribs fall on you, don't worry: breathe history. The whole world is focused on tourism without the Expo; we are talking about Expo, tourism and, today also about relaunching and developing food. Speaking of relaunching, for Expo 1.3 billion euros of national investments, taken from the pockets of the Italians, to cement the agricultural land where Expo will rise. We had stayed in Milan 3, thanks to dear Silvio, who no longer have the pleasure of having in this Senate, but we wait for the sequel to the saga: will it be a coincidence that in those areas the Milan stadium will come? I don't follow football, but maybe you can help me figure out who owns that stadium. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In any case, the motions under examination use Expo as a pretext; an Expo to which we are firmly opposed and continue to be so for economic, environmental, health and also commercial and agricultural development reasons. Let's talk about the government's commitments. These are entirely legitimate commitments, but to us they seem a way to endorse this great work; yet another public work based on estimates, whose unfoundedness filled the satire books (see the post-Olympiad 2006). Another known weapon of this Expo is the social blackmail and the new frontier of bargaining: that of rights, even those fundamental. You made us believe that Expo was the equivalent of jobs, and this is blackmail in a country with an alarming level of unemployment and the most dramatic social gap between rich and poor. If we really want to do a social work we begin to review the redistributive mechanisms of wealth, also related to agriculture, because we are talking about this, developing a real biological model, of zero kilometer, that safeguard the real made in Italy, and not that of your industrial groups. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] An education, as Mr Gaetti rightly said, from schools to universities. So between voting and not voting the motions - including ours, as it has been changed - would not change much from this point of view, given the inconsistency of the obligations for the government with respect to those commitments which, attention being paid, are completely legitimate and very important (sustainable economy, biological, no GMOs). However, it would be commitments that the Government must always implement, and above all put into effect before the allocation of money and not six months after the beginning of the exhibition. Well, it seems to be an apology for the useless, which is why, apology for apology, we believe that ours considered in this explanation of vote are worth more than the vote itself, as I imagine that even for the PD the praise of the Expo is politically worth much more than the commitments of the Government: perhaps nice words to make a pill less bitter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] After the Mose, after the arrests on the contracts, how do you still wave this flag? How do you do that? After a further day lost without taking care of the real problems of the country, do not come and tell us the usual fairy tale of the generation of jobs, because it was an insult to the social state the competition to seek thousands of volunteers available to work for free for the Expo (which, fortunately, has seen win the conscience of citizens who are now tired of working for free), fallen due to the absence of memberships. I was saying, on the basis of three hours taken from the nation, we note the sensibleness of the points concerning sustainable agriculture, the government's commitment to the position against GMOs, food policies. Therefore, while reaffirming our criticality at Expo, we announce our vote in favour of the commitments made, which, however, we reiterate, with the exhibition should have nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u60	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express the fundamental sharing of the Forza Italia Group on the urgency of the issues that the motions under discussion stress: the Government must take the opportunity of Expo 2015 to make Italy the protagonist of an international process that aspires to put into practice concepts such as food security, sustainable agriculture and the fight against food waste. Expo 2015 in figures: 20 million visitors expected, of which about 30 percent foreigners; 24 billion euros represent the estimate of the additional production activated by the event alone, for an added value of 10,5 billion euros in the period 2012-2020, and with a benefit on the gross domestic product of 0.18 percent. Nearly two hundred thousand new jobs estimated between 2012 and 2020. Expo 2015 was an unprecedented stimulus for the development of the sectors directly involved, among all those of agro-food. The perfect opportunity to increase the promotion of our food excellences abroad and to spread the models of Italian food and upstream production chain, which are also among the fundamental sectors of Made in Italy. The theme of Expo 2015: "Feeding the planet, energy for life" recalls the promotion of food culture, also understood as development cooperation. The international community must find solutions to reduce hunger, malnutrition and social imbalances resulting from multiple problematic situations: access to food, development of poor rural areas and development of urban areas in developing countries. Our country must take responsibility for a direct and front-line commitment in the battle for an inclusive global food system and a sustainable agricultural development model. Good Italian practices and experiences can be an example for an increasing number of governments in developing countries, while increasing the knowledge and promotion of our excellences in the world. The products and processes that distinguish the Italian agri-food sector in the world are a valuable contribution to a debate among the most important global players towards clear, achievable and non-relatable commitments to fight hunger in the world. We can talk about a complete success of the universal exhibition in Italy only if the cultural shock that the peoples suffering chronic problems of underfood and poor development ask us will be valued and translated into concrete initiatives. Italy, which hosts a world event with multiple interpretation dimensions, must be the spokesperson for a multidisciplinary approach to the issues at stake: the sustainability of agricultural techniques, the efficiency of production methods, the improvement of the marketing chain are issues to be dealt with jointly with those related to the protection of the ecosystem, the conservation of the planet's resources and the search for healthy and balanced food. To do this we must not invent anything: we must only value that Italy system which is composed of the most virtuous business models in the world and the internationally recognized and often unparalleled quality of our products. We must encourage partners who will take part in Expo 2015 to take as an example for future interventions those agricultural production systems and those experiences in food trade that emerge for efficiency and sustainability in our country. Even more on the occasion of the Expo, we have the moral duty to claim Italy a leading role in the agro-food sector worldwide and we must not forget that Italian excellence in this sector brings with it concrete repercussions and fundamental economic benefits for the recovery and growth of our country. Made in Italy food is in fact an indispensable source of our exports and a key point from which to restart the economic machine. On the merits of the commitments requested in the motions and on the agenda presented, there are fundamental and acceptable points for us too. First of all, we must say no to financial speculations that affect market volatility and lead to higher food prices, especially at the expense of producers. Secondly, it is necessary to discourage the use for energy purposes of primary agricultural production, instead encouraging the recovery of the available by-products; these realities which have had economic and fiscal benefits are putting into difficulty, in my specific case, as representative - for example - of the Lombardy Region, the processing sector with regard to dairy products. Therefore, we must discourage, not only in Italy, but throughout the world, the use of primary agriculture for energy purposes. It is also necessary to reduce waste in the production, transport and marketing of food; to provide technical and political support to emerging countries in order to improve their well-being in the food sector (this becomes fundamental, because only by increasing production capacity in emerging countries, especially in quality agricultural terms, is the problem of immigration and pressure from these countries towards the most developed ones); to launch an information and education campaign for healthier nutritional models. It has just been highlighted - and I share it - that the Expo must also be an opportunity to pay particular attention to the problem of food safety and therefore the traceability of products to guarantee European consumers and producers and above all Italians. Finally, I would like to appeal to the political forces, to the business world and to the social players. We must all work together for a full realization of Expo 2015, fundamental for the revival of the economy and the image of our country. This is not the time to use the sad events of evil - which are being dealt with by the prosecutors - to try to draw electoral and political advantages. It is certainly not speculating on cases of bad management and waste that produce solutions for export and for the country. We cannot afford to face the world's spotlight, which will soon turn on Italy, to appear divided into factions and quarrels, as has happened all too often in the past. Instead, we must set aside propaganda reasoning and calculations of interest in order to deal with decisive and common action the last months before the beginning of the event. It is time to look after the practical outcome and the concreteness of what we must achieve. We have an ambitious project to complete, crucial for the restarting of a real process of internal growth, fundamental for the international image of Italy and absolutely not expendable for short-sighted jokes of those who want to get special returns. Therefore, the vote of the Forza Italia-Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will be in favour of the motions and agenda presented, with a small detail: we do not agree with the intervention made by Senator Fattori of the M5S Group, nor do we agree with the initial part of motion No 275, tabled by the M5S Group, when contesting the opportunity and necessity of the Expo 2015. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zuffada, please conclude your speech. Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Since, however, we vote not on the premises, but on the commitments of the Government, we will also vote in favour of the motion signed by the Senators of the M5S Group, while remembering that the Expo is an opportunity and not a problem for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u63	RUTA (PD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Expo 2015 is now on its way, and it will be an extraordinary opportunity for our country to take full advantage of the role it plays in the agri-food sector and for Made in Italy, which is a pride for us. The title is emblematic: "Feeding the Planet." Energy for life. I would like to start by recalling some data: the world population has practically tripled over the last 60 years, from 2.5 billion in 1950 to 7 billion today, with the forecast that in 2040 the earth will be populated by about 9 billion people. Moreover, the number of malnourished people is increasing, a number that is now dramatically approaching the billion. It is one of those paradoxes that characterize human history: alongside people who daily die of hunger, a very large number of people live with the opposite problem of obesity or heavy overweight. These people amount to about 1.5 billion: twice as many as those living below the poverty line. More than 30 million people die of hunger each year; just as many die in the same period of time due to diseases resulting from excess food. The problem of food waste is also so serious that in Italy it is estimated at 6.5 million tons, equal to 108 kilograms per capita, with an average cost for each family of almost 1,700 euros per year. In the light of the picture presented and in view of the drama of the planetary situation mentioned above, the Senate strongly believes that it must commit the Italian Government to making the international community more aware of its responsibilities towards the whole world. That is why today the Democratic Party Group strongly supports the motions that have been tabled. Motion 262 (text 2), tabled by the representatives of the Democratic Party Group, has a significant value, an overall value that provides for a broad action aimed at promoting new policies in the field of agri-food, committing the Government in this sense to counter the use of financial speculation, encouraging sustainable agriculture to increase productivity in world areas that have so far proved to be poorly productive, with serious repercussions on the populations concerned. It also commits the Government to reduce food waste, so that a substantial part of the world's population can feed itself properly, and to fight, consequently, hunger in the world to make effective the human right to food, a right that cannot remain an empty formula present in international legal acts, but must become effective; to promote the culture of healthy food and balanced and balanced food styles, spreading the Mediterranean diet already immaterial heritage of UNESCO. In our motion we asked the Government to take action so that Expo 2015 will see the participating States, international institutions, public and private bodies forming part of the Italian system, on the issues I have referred to, as well as on the public policies and good practices that must achieve them, with specific objectives that achieve a real "Global Food Pact" according to the most important guidelines that we have developed in recent months together with our Government. On sustainable agriculture, we called for a commitment to develop public policies for productive growth in less productive areas of the world, in order to bring increased demand for food closer to the supply capacity through environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. We have called for a commitment on sustainable agriculture to define innovative practices that use high technology, methods indicated by organic crops, precision agricultural systems, also for the purpose of careful use of water resources, for example the so-called more crop per drop or more harvested for each drop. On the reduction of waste in the food chain, we ask to contribute to the ongoing work, coordinated by the WRI (World Resource Institute) for the definition of a global protocol (Food waste protocol) for the quantification and monitoring of food waste and losses along the chain, as well as to standardize the methods of quantification and monitoring of food waste and losses adopted by individual countries to the specifications that will be defined by the protocol. Finally, we propose to commit the Government to the promotion of the value of food and balanced food styles, to define a common commitment of the international community and its representative institutions in order to promote and affirm a new approach to food that emphasizes its value in the scale of the priorities of consumption. On the promotion of the value of food and balanced food styles, we ask to define, in agreement with the Regions and the local realities most representative of the system of Italian agri-food excellences, common guidelines that have at the centre the quality of the agri-food heritage, as central flywheel that integrates in a multidisciplinary key agriculture of precision, health, innovation and sustainability, local systems of efficiency in the food chain. But we are convinced, Madam President, also the commitment, asked by the League, to take advantage of Expo 2015 as an opportunity to promote the entire Italian territory and make known to those who will come to us the quality agro-food, of which our country is European leader. We are convinced by the commitment called for by the New Right Centre to safeguard the ecological capital of agriculture, the use of appropriate production techniques to be linked, among other things, to agricultural programming, which must be oriented towards non-monoculture agriculture, which avoids highly intensive practices in developed countries and so-called mining agriculture in emerging countries, discouraging the interest to produce biofuels from primary agricultural production. We must convince ourselves that the recovery of the various available by-products remains optimal. Just as we are convinced by the commitment requested in the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement, aimed at banning GMO production on national territory. On this subject, I would like to say that in this House we unanimously adopted a motion in this direction, and the efforts of the Government have gone in that direction with the latest European events. So it convinces us, because it is an integral part of our heritage of beliefs, obviously focusing on research in the laboratory, because we believe that important results will be available from research for progress, compared to which no step back must be taken, if anything three steps forward. But research must be done in the laboratory and not in the open field, to avoid contamination. We are also convinced that this House has made progress towards a unanimous vote. We are convinced by the method of finding a sharing on the big issues. I take this opportunity to say that the decree "free field," that decree that the Government has put in place goes in the right direction, that of a healthy use of our territory, encouraging the assumptions under 35, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, and not only, and putting in place the tax credit that has worked well in our country. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of the three motions and the agenda presented, considering that the widest possible method of sharing for major issues makes Italy proud to be a great country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u65	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u66	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, first of all I would like to announce the vote, and then I would briefly point out that I disagree. I shall vote against all the motions tabled, including those tabled by my Group, because it has been depowered. In fact, the qualifying points of the motion, i.e. to stop, where possible, cementification and give a firm spot to GMOs, have been removed. In fact, I should abstain, because the motions presented propose to the Government to commit to do what Expo should already do, so they are non-commitments, and for this reason we are faced with non-motions. On the other hand, I shall vote against it because of the total inconsistency between what is being said and what is being proposed. In fact, there has been no mention of the fundamental issue here. You say that Expo serves to nourish the planet, while it is a cementification, a real estate speculation: it is worth the equivalent of eleven average Italian farms, since an average Italian farm is equal to about nine hectares. Therefore, the assumption on which you want to feed people is wrong, because it is not done with cement. It's real estate speculation: you gave 148 million euros to the owners of a land that was cultivated to make us a concrete floor, which will remain cemented, and you will regenerate the area to the owners, with all subservices. So, if this is the idea of development or feeding the planet you have, it's wrong, and it's time someone told you. If, instead, you had a minimum of consistency in saying that you don't care about nutrition and food (you talked about food bars, vitamin C and Mediterranean diet) and you said that you only care about trying to bring home money with this operation, then I would have voted against it, but at least I would have said: "OK, you are credible and consistent." You didn't have the courage to do that either: you should be ashamed of yourself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 262 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 262 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pignedoli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 262 (text 2), 269 and 275 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 269 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 269 (text 2), tabled by Senator Formigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 262 (text 2), 269 and 275 presidents. Before moving to the vote on motion 275 in the reworded text, the Minister asked to speak for a clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u68	Madam President, I would just like to make it clear that, in agreement with the authors, the penultimate, the third and fourth points of the premises are removed from the final text by the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u69	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 275 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 275 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 262 (text 2), 269 and 275 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Appreciate the circumstances, also in view of the convening of the Conference of Leaders, we move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u71	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Wait a minute, Senator Puglia. Please, colleagues, step away without making too much noise. You're welcome, Senator. PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that the urgent question was presented today 2-00172 to the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, since on 16 June a violent air trumpet was struck on Portici, accompanied by heavy rain, causing irreversible damage to many structures of the Department of Agriculture. In particular, the precious botanical garden of the royal palace of Portici, historical memory of the Bourbon palace, built in 1872, was destroyed by the serious atmospheric phenomenon. We asked the Minister for prompt and urgent action. Then, Mr President, I wanted to call for a series of questions to be answered. I refer, in particular, to Question 4-00581, which concerns the Municipality of Ercolano: specifically, it concerns the assignment of professional duties. We want to understand very well whether there have been illegalities in the assignment of different assignments. Then there is the question 4-00983, concerning the palace of Portici, historical residence built by the sovereign Charles III as a royal palace for the Bourbon dynasty of Naples, which is currently not usable in its entirety. We therefore ask the minister responsible for action. Again, the question 4-01421, which concerns the hill of the Camaldoli, located between the districts of Pianura and Soccavo of the Municipality of Naples: it is an area at serious hydrogeological risk. We haven't had an answer to this today. Then there is also the question 4-01488, which concerns a motorway junction built for a long time in San Giorgio a Cremano (Naples), but which is still closed. Again, I would like to refer to Question 4-02094, which concerns the compulsory employment offices of the Province of Naples, with specific reference to an issue relating to the protection reserved for orphans of war and assimilated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, please finish. PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. I still remember the question 4-02054 (and with this closing, even if there would be others), which concerns the Supply Centre of the police station in Naples (CERCO). Finally, and I really close, there is the question 4-02032, concerning the beach of Cava dell'Isola, in the Municipality of Forio d'Ischia, the only free beach, immense, of this Municipality, which is currently still closed. There are many other questions to which we have not had an answer. The famous fifteen days have passed, so we are asking for the presidency's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u72	[[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u73	The Presidency will urge the Government to respond to the acts of inspection union presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u76	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I immediately join with what Senator Puglia has said, to which I ask that I be able to add my signature to the urgent questioning presented to the Minister and to the President-in-Office of the Council. Beyond what the press itself represented, I experienced in fact first person the moments of the passage of the terrible trumpet of air, with a cloud of really abnormal size and intensity. There has been damage to things (fortunately not to people) and has been affected in particular the artistic and cultural heritage of the botanical garden of the faculty of agriculture of the University Frederick II (better known as the faculty of agrarian Portici) that has unfortunately been destroyed and needs a series of extraordinary interventions with funds that probably the university Frederick II is not able to grant immediately. Let me also say, Madam President, that in a country in which tragedies are often experienced such as delays and inefficiencies in relief, in the city of Portici instead, in the immediacy of the calamitous event, for which the administration has probably requested the state of natural disaster (I too will make a request in this regard), the civil protection volunteers of the city, the municipal police and the forces of order immediately were able to lend those reliefs that the population needed. Therefore, in front of a dramatic page, difficult and with moments of terror and fear, we can praise and celebrate something that has worked also in a country, such as Italy, in which often and willingly we try to distinguish, even in tragedies, the South from the North. I am proud of the fact that those volunteers, those bodies of civil protection and that municipal police have been able to be worthy of a tragic and difficult moment that that population lived. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-264.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.
