ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u6	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, as a Parent Company, I would like to bring to the attention of this House, before the beginning of the work, an unfortunate fact which happened to a Member of our Group in Reggio Emilia. Our deputy Maria Elena Spadoni, after having made her complaint against the mayor of Brescello, who would have contact with a mobster, was approached by three individuals who threatened her telling her that the name of that mobster (Great Aracri) would no longer have to pronounce it. We issued a press release and asked that the policy give strong answers to these threats that parliamentarians not only of the 5 Star Movement (even if in this case it is a parliamentary one), but also of other political forces receive from characters probably related to the world of the mob, but in any case in mafia mode. We therefore ask that as soon as possible the policy responds with the calendarization of the anti-corruption package and with the anti-money laundering law, measures already deposited and which are also shared by the President of the Senate Pietro Grasso. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u7	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the government's information on recent alluvial events and related motions 1-00178 (text 2) presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00253, presented by Senator Fucksia and other senators, 1-00308 (text 2), presented by Senator Ruta and other senators, 1-00314, presented by Senator Tarquinio and other senators, 1-00316 (text 2), presented by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00324, presented by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, 1-00325, presented by Senator Bruni and other senators, and 1-00326, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, on the ground. I recall that during the afternoon session the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea was informed and the illustration of the related motions on the protection of the soil began. I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion 324.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Senators, climate change, including in our country, has been causing atypical, extreme and increasingly serious weather events for some time now, with storms and water bombs. They are phenomena that, given the presence of an already vulnerable territory, with their own fragile hydraulic and geological structure, poorly protected, with irresponsible and even abusive cementifications, are the cause of floods and phenomena of disruption such as landslides, landslides, erosions, with serious material, economic and social damage. The increase in disasters is certainly due to the incorrect use of the soil, due to the maladministration of the territory, but also to the abandonment of the same. The depopulation of the mountain and the small towns, the neglect of the territory are linked to the loss of contact with the same and here for all should open a reflection on the tendency that the fusion of the municipalities, especially those of the mountain, would lead to a further abandonment of the mountain areas. And what about the cutting of resources (what does it mean for small centres less services, less kindergartens, less schools and therefore the will to abandon families and weak groups)? Then there is the abusive construction of buildings on the margins, if not even in the riverbed or on landslides, perhaps later condoned instead of being demolished, which are one of the main causes of the breakdown. In these cases, it all comes down to the responsibility of the administrators who have authorized, if not even seen, the constructions. It is often the same regulatory plans that are distorted by a thousand compromises, which pursue partisan interests and not compatibility with environmental and territorial characteristics. The disaster in Genoa is the clear example of the bad administration of the territory: not only the Bisagno, but many other intubated waterways have shamefully allowed the cementification of entire districts of the Ligurian capital city. This morning the Minister recalled the events that took place from 9 October to today. But not only a similar event took place in Genoa in November 2011 with the loss of the lives of six people, there were also three other serious events: in 1970, with 44 deaths, in 1992, with seven deaths, and in 1993, with four deaths, which seem to have taught nothing to local administrators. Among the various alluvial events I would also like to remind you of what happened between the end of January and the beginning of February in the Veneto and Emilia-Romagna Regions, where there have been floods with negative consequences on the road, on the communications, with flooding of agricultural land and damage to economic activities and businesses, which have involved the request by the governors of the recognition of the state of emergency; the events on the Gargano, recalled this morning by my colleague Tarquinio, but also those happened from June to today in the Lombardy territory, subjected continuously to adverse weather events of extreme violence, storms and water bombs, which have provoked and cause the overflow of rivers and streams, making significant damage to the territory and bringing to the knees the economy of one of the most productive areas of the country. The Lombardy Region - I would like to remind you - has already for two months asked for the recognition of the state of emergency for 80 million euros of damages caused to private and public structures. Also in my province, Lecco, the estimated damage is about 5.6 million euros. Innumerable motions and resolutions have been tabled in the previous parliamentary term on the hydrogeological disaster, but also in this Parliament, such as the agenda adopted unanimously on 4 September 2013. They are all devices designed to emphasize the importance of the issue of the protection of the ground and the security of the territory, which confirm the awareness on the part of all and the necessity that the Government finance an organic plan of interventions for the safety and maintenance of the territory in order to pass definitively, and not only in words, to the logic of prevention compared to that of the emergency. In these two years, however, few resources have been allocated by the Letta Government and - I think I can say - by the Renzi Government: much less than those financed by the Berlusconi Government with Lega and PdL in the majority. There are also cuts in transfers to local authorities. Premier Renzi, how can we welcome the granting of 1 billion plafonds on the Stability Pact by the Stability Act when resources are then cut by 1.2 billion euros? How can we talk about protection of the territory when, even for the provinces, in the law of stability, there is a cut in resources of EUR 1 billion? These resources will certainly not only go to the heating and maintenance of roads, but also to the ground defense interventions both of municipal and provincial property. The North League has tabled its own motion asking the Government to commit itself to a few things but indispensable. The first, at the top of all, is the exclusion of the Stability Pact for absolutely essential preventive and maintenance measures. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Premier Renzi, with the law of stability, has put in place a maneuver in deficit of 11.5 billion euros, previewing little or nothing for the works of defense of the ground to which instead it had to give highest priority. The second thing we are asking for is for the extraordinary plan for the protection of the soil to be implemented immediately, as it has been signed for several years: there are 2.5 billion euros, for the most part allocated by the Berlusconi Government. Thirdly, the states of emergency required by the territories - where they are real - must be recognised quickly, without months, and once they have been recognised and authorised, the time taken to transfer the resources allocated must be speeded up in order to ensure certainty for damages to private individuals and local authorities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The fourth thing that we ask is that the Government identify specific initiatives to ensure the implementation by local authorities, who know perfectly the territory, of the interventions of safety of the same, especially for the areas at risk priority and of actions of reforestation, cleaning of the wooded areas and reuse of abandoned agricultural land, also through experimental projects that see as protagonists the young people. We also call for initiatives to be taken to provide financial incentives for maintenance of riverbeds by local authorities (Comuni and Provinces) and regions to improve the state of watercourses in order to prevent flood risk while promoting the use of woody resources for energy purposes. It is also necessary to provide in the law of stability for 2015 - as I said before, but I repeat again - additional resources to be allocated to hydrogeological risk prevention interventions, certainly on the basis of river basin district management plans and decisions of the unified State-Regions-Local Conference. From this point of view, we hope that resources will be allocated far more than is foreseen in the 2014 Stability Act, which only provided for 180 million in the three-year period and, in particular, only 30 million in 2014. Finally, with regard to the Stability Pact, I call on the colleges of the other groups, especially those of the majority, to share and vote in favour of this motion, because it contains seven commitments for the Government, seven of the 14 commitments - perhaps too many - contained on the September 2013 agenda, approved unanimously. Since this motion therefore refers to a small part of the content of the agenda, we do not see why the majority groups should not also vote in favour of our motion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u10	I call Senator Piccoli to explain motion 325.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we must once again see how the tragedy of entire communities must draw the attention of the Government and Parliament to the fragility and vulnerability of our territories. Once again, under the weight of the umpteenth emergency, one wonders whether the tragic events of these last days could not be avoided, as the head of civil protection Gabrielli pointed out. Once again we find ourselves discussing and redrafting operational guidelines to the Government. The motion that I present again recalls that the responsibility for the verification of such destructive events must be attributed to the lack of planning, to the absence of certain rules for the execution of the works of protection, to carelessness, to carelessness and to negligence and how it is necessary to take prompt and incisive action on the part of the Government. And to say that the problems related to the hydrogeological conformation of our peninsula have been known and studied for years! Just remember some figures: the areas most exposed to hydrogeological risk represent almost 10% of the peninsula and concern more than 80% of the municipalities; millions of Italian citizens are exposed to the risks related to calamitous events, which could affect, among other things, hundreds of public buildings. Such alarming elements are a corollary to reports of economic damage and human losses: from the second post-war period to today in Italy we have had more than 5,000 victims, compared with total damage estimated at more than 60 billion euros. All this represents a tribute in terms of both economic and human lives that a country like Italy cannot afford to pay. The long list of events gives depth to the need to intervene quickly, in order to plan with a plan at least ten years the interventions for the territory. The motion that we present to the Government recalls as our Country, being characterized by a very articulated drainage grid where the hydrogeological failure is a recurring phenomenon, strongly linked to the young geological age of the territory (especially mountain, moreover gradually abandoned), frequently registers alluvial episodes of serious importance that highlight the need to intervene on a national scale with greater effectiveness in the field of prevention and hydrogeological maintenance. The motion strongly wants to indicate that the continuous emergencies must be answered with the ordinariness of a structural plan and of targeted interventions. The measures to protect citizens, businesses and the whole territory from the events resulting from the hydrogeological risk require a constant, systematic and multidisciplinary approach that can make the processes of anthropization consistent with the specific environmental problems. It has now been established how the causes that for decades put at risk the delicate balances of the territory of our country must be sought in the following factors: urbanization, which does not save areas of natural expansion of watercourses, nor areas particularly subject, due to morphological characteristics, to natural disasters; the definition, for some cases, of risk analysis dictated more by short-term conveniences than by the needs of protection and conservation of the territory; the change of the intensity of weather events. We continue to witness the degradation of hill and mountain areas, the uncontrolled advance of deforestation, the inefficient maintenance of watercourses and riverbeds. In this regard, the motion points out that the excessive division of administrative powers for the optimal management of the territory causes difficulties in coordinating the action to be taken, hindering and slowing down the interventions and their efficient time schedule. For these reasons, it is stated that adequate simplification of these competences, accompanied by effective coordination of the actors involved, is a prerequisite for overcoming the current fragmentation, which proves to be the real barrier to the effectiveness of both ordinary and extraordinary maintenance. The motion also attaches fundamental importance to the opportunity to structure a system of governance of actions to protect the national territory, in which the logic of delegation as the only system for the management of activities is surpassed. In fact, attention is drawn to the fact that the inadequate and unconditional use of this instrument in recent years has rarely produced the useful result of a more direct activity of monitoring the territory but, indeed, has generated a mixture of skills, from which has resulted a frequent dereliction. For these reasons, the motion underlines the importance of overcoming the stalemate created by fragmentation, relaunching towards a unified and integrated direction for the management of interventions, as well as for policies to protect soil and water, ensuring adequate resources to the authorities of the basin of the river districts. Moreover, in the motion, a protocol of rapid and automatic interventions to deal with emergencies is essential, namely the development and concrete implementation of that extraordinary plan for the protection of the soil and for the safety of the territory for too long announced but obviously not implemented. It is necessary to make permanent and replicate those measures of simple common sense for all phenomena resulting from bad weather, be they floods, landslides or earthquakes. For example, on the civil protection front, our motion shows that it is appropriate that the best practices and techniques put in place by this or that Region for the management of critical issues can be resumed and repeated systematically, thus becoming mode of codified management of emergency situations throughout the Italian territory. Such management must be able to exploit and re-understand those voluntary associations that have proved to be valuable resources of aid to a territory that suddenly faces an environmental emergency situation. Another common sense initiative indicated in the motion - and requested - is to put in condition those who have suffered damage to the house or to their own shed to be able to almost automatically overcome the fiscal assault through suspensions or delays. In view of the declaration of state of disaster, mechanisms should automatically be put in place to enable the citizens of the affected territory both to have favourable fiscal discipline, by suspending the payment of local and national taxes, and to avoid continuing to pay mortgages or interest. To sum up, therefore, few commitments are required from the Government, which I quickly set out below. First, the Government undertakes to take on the commitments approved with the United Senate agenda approved at session No. 95 of 4 September 2013, assuming, in particular, appropriate initiatives to release from the Stability Pact all works with approved executive design and providing in the next law of stability adequate financial resources for the implementation of an environmental plan of protection of the territory of at least ten years duration, containing, inter alia, appropriate strict indications for the use and occupation of the soils. Secondly, the Government is committed to taking appropriate steps to ensure consistency in the procedures for the intervention of civil protection on the territory of the peninsula through the reuse of best practices of good technique successfully used in some areas of the country and, at the same time, to use all the tools that modern technologies make available for the information of citizens and businesses and environmental control. Thirdly, the Government is committed to overcoming the existing bureaucratic barriers, with a simplification of the regulations and administrative procedures, in order to allow a rapid implementation of interventions useful for the protection of the soil; among them, in particular, the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of the watercourses. The Government is also committed: to intervene, in the context of the management of volumes, for the rolling of the floods, intensifying the control of the capacity to invade the reservoirs through the planning of operations of detachment and disengagement and proceeding urgently to the realization of chests of expansion where previewed from the existing planning; to simplify and accelerate the procedures that determine the state of natural calamity and the consequent interventions on the taxation for citizens and enterprises; to render semi-annual reports to the Parliament on the state of implementation of the participations. The recipe is always the same, so our motion strongly reiterates what has already been said on the agenda approved by this House in September 2013. Of what has been said so far, unfortunately, to date there seems to be no trace of incisive and determined actions. We must put an end to the proclamations and move from words to deeds. The goal is clear, but not so is the path that is certainly articulated and needs, now more than ever, an adequate commitment of the Government, timely and, above all, capable of giving concreteness to the need for safety and quality of life required by families, businesses and the whole country. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u12	I greet students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico economico (Economic Technical Institute) De Fazio in Lamezia Terme, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u13	I call Senator Cervellini to explain motion 326.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, as is well known, in the night between 9 and 10 October last, a vast system of rainfall, albeit with characteristics of ordinary criticality (according to the forecasts of the regional center of the Department of Civil Protection), hit, in addition to part of the Regions of northern Italy, the Liguria and the city of Genoa, where a situation of serious emergency has been determined due to the flooding of the river Bisagno, only three years from a similar episode that has affected the same area. The Public Prosecutor of Genoa is investigating the works carried out and those not carried out in the hydraulic field, the maintenance of the hives, the missing alarms, the management of the emergency and the responsibilities of the administrative bodies. In fact, the execution of the works for the safety of that section of the river Bisagno was blocked as a result of an administrative dispute over the procedure of entrusting the contract. And, as they have always done, the Genoese found themselves shoveling mud, alone, in the general guilty awareness of the Ministers and the Government, who only know what should be done, without acting. And I repeat, Minister, they were alone. A short interval of time and place, serious phenomena of hydrogeological criticality have occurred also in Parmense and in the Tuscan Maremma, while the beginning of September they had registered in Gargano, confirming that the level of exposure of our Country to this kind of alluvial emergencies constitutes primary factor of alarm for public safety and concerns a territorial surface that is rapidly extending beyond the zones officially classified at risk. Someone paid with their lives this intolerable situation and the list of 2014, just to mention the floods, is dramatic: 19 January, Modena; 31 January, Ponsacco; 3 May, Senigallia and Chiaravalle; 8 July, Milan, overflows the Seveso river; 21 July, flood in Valfreddana; 2 August, Refrontolo; 4 and 5 September, in Gargano, where we know what dimension the tragedy had; 20 September, Imola and Alta Romagna; 9 and 10 October, Genoa; 11 and 12 October, Alexandria; 11 and 12 October, again, Parma; 14 October, Maremma. With regard to the victims, in some of these cases the tragedy could take on catastrophic dimensions. To frame in general terms this problem, therefore, involves having to admit that our country has more than 82% of the municipalities in areas with high hydrogeological risk, as can be seen from the "Ecosystem Risk 2013", the annual dossier of Legambiente and Civil Protection Department, which monitors the activities for the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk of more than 1,500 Italian municipal administrations. These are 6,633 municipalities (5,708 for the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research), where almost 6 million Italians live. This means that the fragility of the territory exposes citizens to the risk of landslides and floods, which are increasingly likely also due to the effects of climate change. This wretched, as well as irrational, land management is a sword of Damocles on people's lives. In 1,109 municipalities there are homes in areas at risk and in 779 there are even industrial plants. Despite repeated tragedies, even in the last decade new structures have been built in areas exposed to landslides and floods in 186 municipalities among those interviewed. The figures for 2010 are even more alarming: 100 percent is the share of municipalities at higher potential risk in Calabria, Umbria and Valle d'Aosta; 11 percent is the share of municipalities at higher potential risk in Sardinia (rather, what are we waiting for there, the next water bomb?); 10.000 is the number of victims, injured or missing in Italy, between 1900 and 2010, due to the hydrogeological failure; 350,000 the number of homeless and displaced; 8 the amount in billions of euros of flood damage in Italy, from 1998 - year of the tragedy of Sarno - to 2010; 480,000 landslides occurred in Italy. According to data provided by the National Council of Geologists, more than €27 billion was spent in Italy from 1996 to 2008 to deal with the effects of hydrogeological failure and earthquakes. However, 1.260,000 buildings are at risk for landslides and floods: of these, 6,000 schools and 531 hospitals. Only in the last three years, the State has allocated about 1 billion euros for emergencies caused by hydrogeological disasters in 13 regions. For prevention, however, only 2 billion have been allocated in ten years, where the need for the realization of the interventions for the overall settlement of the situations of disruption throughout the national territory is estimated to be about 40 billion. Soil consumption continues at impressive rates, with over 200,000 hectares per year affected by urbanisation. The absence of adequate spatial planning has also encouraged the growth of urbanization in areas not suitable with artificial interventions on the watercourses and constant subtraction of exondable areas that instead represent irreplaceable garrisons for the protection of the soil, while building abuse is still a constant risk factor, even for areas already formally subject to protection. According to this logic, even the tragedy in Maremma could have been avoided with structural interventions of contrast to hydrogeological failure. Not to mention the escaped danger, if the water bomb had also fallen on the coast. Of the 410 kilometers of coast (from Capalbio, to the border with Lazio, Marina di Carrara, to the border with Liguria) 181 kilometers, that is 44 percent of the total of the coast of Tuscany, have been inexorably modified from building interventions in the last two decades, canceling as many as 12,000 meters of coast. And the building boom doesn't seem to decrease. The government certainly cannot avoid a mea culpa for a avoidable tragedy, with ordinary structural interventions to secure the territory, necessary to counter the gradual but inexorable hydrogeological disruption of the area. Among these, in particular, especially in the light of the definancing of the Tirrenic Highway project, those on the Aurelia state road remain a priority in the most risky sections, especially between Grosseto South, Civitavecchia and Tarquinia, where there is much to do in terms of safety and restoration of a wonderful and fragile territory. Is it possible that this Government does or works useless, strongly detrimental to the environmental balance (such as the MOSE of Venice), forier besides of serious scandals and high rates of corruption, or abandons the country to nothing? At no to the Tirrenic Highway, private and paid, we of Left, Ecology and Freedom, the committees, the mayors and the province of Grosseto have always proposed interventions for the safety of the Aurelia and the territories crossed. At a lower cost these interventions could have been done (and they can, indeed they must be done). With the Left Ecology and Freedom we will continue to implement all the actions of contrast to this inertia, to protect the citizens and the balances of our territory. For this reason, with our motion we intend to commit the Government to consider the maintenance of the territory and hydrogeological defense as an absolute priority for the country. In order to ensure citizens' safety, it is improcrastinable to set up an organic plan for soil protection and adaptation to climate change. This should be the real great infrastructural work, able not only to secure the fragile national territory, but to activate thousands of yards distributed throughout the territory with important repercussions from the economic point of view, employment and quality. Above all, we want to commit the Government to predict, in the draft law of stability for the three-year period 2015-2017, adequate, multi-annual and reliable funding of at least one billion euros per year. In short, sometimes we have approved, even in the recent past, motions and agendas, even with great majorities, if not unanimously. Often, however, these have been solemn commitments, certainly challenging, but they have often remained a dead letter. To give examples, documents against the entry of large cruise ships into the Venice lagoon and for the protections in our country's strategic industrial systems have been approved, if not unanimously, by a very large majority. But now they lie there or, even worse, in successive decrees of the Government, operating and submitted to the cleaver of the armor of the trust, they have been totally contradicted. We have at the door the decree unlocks Italy, and the contents of this coming from the House are worrying. We're waiting for you. We wait for the tears to follow the coherence; that the solemn minutes of silence of the past weeks follow precise commitments; that changes towards and measures structural interventions, always to be done over the years, to save human lives and the most precious heritage of our country: the coasts, its mountains, the lagoons and the swamps. Our country is studded with historical and archaeological deposits unique in the world; a wonderful and fragile hinterland. We Italians are not the masters of all this: we must be its guardians for future generations and for the whole of humanity. You, Minister, opened your speech by saying that it is not acceptable that the consequence of a storm often becomes a catastrophe. It is true, Minister, that it is not acceptable: it is not acceptable for one hand to do one thing and the other to do the opposite; it is not acceptable for it to continue with the unholy consumption of the territory. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u15	Thus ended the illustration of the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u16	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words. My colleagues who have explained the motions have well described the phenomena that have affected our territory. I want to remember here the Tuscan story and the disaster of the Maremma, to which I am particularly linked, where the flood of the Elsa stream and the river Albegna repeated exactly as in 2012. I believe that in the events of this last month the elements that have been noted on several occasions in terms of the protection of the soil and the protection from its disintegration have re-emerged. It is a fragile and abused territory, which has a social priority, because it is necessary to guarantee the safety of citizens living in a situation of anxiety and precariousness in the most exposed areas, and an economic priority, because - as my colleague Mr Cervellini said - the damage that the State had to pay ex post (about 27 billion) for the effects of the floods and various environmental disasters would have made safe throughout the national territory. The short-term perspective prevailed in politics, compared to perhaps longer, little visible, dark interventions, but which have, then, results for the long-term country. Again, bad politics. Also in Tuscany there have been factors that we always find in these events: lack of resources (and we hope that the law of stability will intervene), failure and inadequacy of the institutions, fragmentation of competences. Those that happened in Tuscany we could call them "stories of ordinary federalism" or "of ordinary madness" in which the fragmentation of competences between Region, Province, consortium, Municipality produced a rimfallo of responsibility, a mutual ban, which has basically blocked available resources since 2010 and programs on which the institutions did not find an agreement. Dear Minister, I believe that these aspects have not been sufficiently noted in your speech. It is not enough to allocate resources if we see that they are not being spent effectively and quickly. I want to highlight two aspects. The first one. I believe - as I have already pointed out with regard to health - that it is absolutely inappropriate to appoint commissioners for land defense interventions, that the Regions have not implemented, precisely the Presidents of the Region, the same who have not implemented those interventions. I do not understand how we can entrust responsibilities to people who have already demonstrated their inability. Secondly, I would urge, in the process of simplifying the federalist chain, the abolition of reclamation consortia, which take money from citizens to make interventions that are not carried out. We place this responsibility on a single level, so that this level can respond and have the necessary powers; but we do not again allocate funds which we know will then encounter the same difficulties in their management. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Maturani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u17	Colleagues, please pay a moment's attention to the organization of our work. From a quick calculation of the speaking time, we should end at about 8:43 p.m. As everyone knows, the sitting must end at 8 p.m. Therefore, if there are no objections, let us proceed in our work with the debate, the Government's reply, the opinions and explanations of vote until 8 p.m., while the last explanations of vote and the vote are postponed to tomorrow's afternoon sitting, reminding everyone that tomorrow morning at 9.30 am there will be the communications of the President of the Council. If there is no opposition - and I do not know it - let us proceed in this direction. He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Presidency to give its permission to add to the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. In response to the need to tighten up the debate, I will make just a few comments. First of all, I would like to renew my thanks to Mr Galletti for coming to the Parma area on the days of the emergency. I think it must be emphasized first of all that that emergency has two shadows: on the one hand, the shadow of the lack of alert; on the other hand, the shadow of the failure to realize the expansion box of the Baganza river. The lack of alert, on which a prosecutor's investigation was opened, led to a situation that only a miracle could prevent it from leading to human deaths. Three and twenty metres of water arrived in a private hospital facility in which clinics were open and visits of sick people were ongoing even not self-sufficient. The event has recorded on Parma, Calestano, Corniglio, Compiano, Bedonia, Sala Baganza, Neviano degli Arduini, and I would not want to forget anyone. In the city were shocked by this event the Montanara district and via Shuttle. She had to evacuate a private hospital facility, with an important hospice for palliative care. Structure now evacuated, inoperative with about one hundred and twenty employees for which it is hoped that the fund will be granted by way of derogation. It had to clear Villa Parma, the most important structure of residence for elderly not self-sufficient. The city is recovering thanks to the Civil Protection and Fire Departments and above all to the great team of volunteers, who dedicated themselves to the recovery operation. There is a lot of damage to industry and roughly EUR 1 million. Serious damage has been suffered by some salumifici, agriculture and the road system. The traffic of the Province is interrupted in several points, with compromise of the road network, difficult to arrange in a short time. The president called for a state of emergency. I would like to stress the particular need for very prompt intervention in my own lands. I remember that the Province was bent by the events of the spring of 2013, the spring of 2014 and the last of this autumn. There are situations of general interest, such as road, and of particular interest, such as the many people who have lost their homes, who need to have an answer. I believe that it is necessary in relation to all this - and I realize that Parma is not the only disaster area - to have exceptional appropriations, which - as Senator Lanzillotta has just said - must then be promptly wound up and allocated to the local institutions, in order to be able to have the necessary answers in a short time. I believe that all this must find an answer together with the need, repeatedly represented, to have a strong prevention at the level of the works against the hydrogeological failure, paying real attention to recover control of the territory and the environment and to carry out an effective preservation of the same. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u19	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u20	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, the frames of the mud that swallowed lives and houses, animals and people, crops and roads, sheds and shops, which basically tore away the heart of so many of our lands, flow before our eyes without a truce. The last are those of the city of Genoa. Mud, water and debris have also fallen on Piedmont, the low Tuscany and some places in western Umbria and Upper Lazio. Forty days ago it was touched, for the umpteenth time, also to my Puglia, with the Gargano disemboweled by a quantity of rain so as not to give way. We mourn two deaths: a 72-year-old man and a boy, Antonio Facenna, a brave and far-sighted young man, who had chosen to put his studies to use by putting them at the service of his land, in the name of a proud rebirth and a deep and enthusiastic bond with his land. He was going to secure the animals from his farm when he was overwhelmed by that mud. Like him, there have been so many lives sacrificed to mud in recent years, because ours is also a story marked by death and destruction: news and stories from war bulletin. You don't need to go too far in time to understand it: just remember the environmental calamitous events from 2011 to today. It really was a war bulletin, which grieves us and mortifies us at the same time. Can we accept that those who happen are made unavoidable? No, of course not, because I'm not. They are not inevitable; at least they are not insofar as they have become, over time, tragedies announced by the poor care of the places, the absence of prevention and - above all - the systematic violence used in the territory. The hydrogeological failure of so much of our country is the child of natural phenomena - certainly - but often brought to the extreme consequences by inauspicious choices and chronic indifference of alarms launched, also at international level, on climate change. The Kyoto Protocol to date has not really addressed the real crucial issues linking the hydrogeological failure to the strong humanization of the places, to the urbanist instruments and to the atmospheric changes. Yet Italy is a country at very high risk of hydrogeological failure: the areas with high criticality represent 9.8 percent of the national surface and concern 89 percent of the municipalities, on which there are 6,250 schools and 550 hospitals. CNR's Research Institute for Hydrogeological Protection calculated that between 1963 and 2011, 5,192 landslide victims and 5,180 flood victims were in Italy: a total of more than 7,700 deaths. According to the Centre for Economic and Social Research of the market for the construction and the territory, 5.75 percent of the country's area is at high risk landslides and 4.1 percent of the area at high risk floods; more than 5 million Italians reside in areas at very high risk. Soil consumption is growing at dizzying speeds and the response, both in terms of prevention and safety, is still inadequate. You cannot leave entire territories unanswered; you cannot think, every time, of weeping the dead and the damages as if they were the cruel destiny, the inevitability of fate and the fatality to prevent us from putting an embankment to this massacre. The Gargano, brought to its knees by the mud of the essence of its social, economic and productive system, with about 60 million euros of estimated damage for tomato crops, of which the province of Foggia is leader in Italy and the production of olive groves and vineyards, awaits from the Government, for 46 days, the declaration of the state of emergency and the consequent allocation of the necessary funds to restore the places and its safety. Colleagues, gentlemen of the government, I do not want to argue, but let me say that if politics has a chance today to recover the good face of itself it must stop speaking the language of deception. Politics must regain its role and be followed up when it takes up commitments. We would like the promptness of the President-in-Office of the Council's speech, when he went to Peschici personally on 13 September, to be repeated in response times, which are still too late to arrive after almost two months: no state of disaster, no resources and no answers. I believe that on this side the tenor of the speeches that we have heard puts a renewed tension, in the awareness that the tenacious commitment of all political forces can allow us, perhaps even reaching the point of writing and sharing a single motion, to do more than what has been done so far, to speak the language of truth to the country and to assume commitments that exceed the emotional conditions of drama and tragedy, that still follow in our memory, and deliver to the seriousness of the commitments undertaken a new page capable of returning a reassuring perspective and hope. I have appreciated the words of confidence which the Minister has tried to carefully distill in his speech today, and yet I must say that we still have an absolute inadequacy of resources in relation to the necessary ones. In the law of stability we find an appropriation of just 180 million euros for the three years 2014-2016: a drop in the sea. The substantial sums that the Minister has spoken of may be a commitment, but they are still far from being reflected in the figures in the state budget. The commitment that we call on the Government in this House can be summarized in these points: to declare immediately the state of emergency for the Gargano; to exclude from the Stability Pact the expenditure made for the implementation of actions to restore damage (not only in Puglia, but in all regions of the country affected by natural disasters); to strengthen resources through the reprogramming of national and Community funds 2007-2013 late in spending; to allocate in the framework of the measures under examination and in this law of stability the appropriate resources for the reconstruction of the territories of the Gargano affected by the last calamitous events; to participate actively in the European institutions to draw on the European Union solidarity fund used for the serious disasters. Gentlemen of the Government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, too many times the work of this House has had to stop to give the extreme greeting to the victims of natural disasters; too many times in those half-minutes of recollection are chasing the frames of so many broken lives, of so many areas of violence, of tears that cross the desperate face of men, women and children looking for a reason. Our gesture of solidarity, the words of circumstance, the visit of the Government to the places of the disasters are absolutely not enough. They take on value and value only if we restore to them the strength of an effective action. Today is the time to do so. I recommend the government to gather the ideas and requests from the motions, also from the one presented by my party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u23	Mr President, this morning I appreciated the detail with which the Minister of the Environment described the various alluvial events of recent weeks, beginning with Genoa. On the other hand, I was frankly amazed and also embittered that the Minister did not devote a single word or a single digit to the flood that hit the Lower Alexandrine on October 13, 2014. He made only a mention of the rainfall of October 9, those of Genoa, but nothing on the following Monday, October 13, precisely. Fortunately, there were no victims, but the territory of dozens of municipalities has been hit hard, with serious damage to public infrastructure, roads, bridges, sewers, private homes, shops, crafts, industrial and agricultural enterprises. The Piedmont Region has already asked the Government for the declaration of state of emergency. I would therefore like someone to inform the Minister that, to date (source of the Civil Protection of Alexandria), there are still 54 displaced persons and 14,554 citizens of 13 municipalities who are still without drinking water. Until two days ago, it was over 40,000. Dozens of small and very small communities were brought to their knees on October 13 by a very violent precipitation that blew up the minor water system, that of the streams, that of the rii. The ARPA has already drawn up a technical report in which it can be read that the rains of 13 October were locally exceptional, with a probability of happening estimated in 200 years in terms of return time. In three hours they fell, for example in Lavagnina lake, Municipality of Casaleggio Boiro, 254 millimeters and in 12 hours the station of Gavi totaled 420 millimeters. The crossover centre between Gavi, Casaleggio Boiro and Castelletto d'Orba has cumulative values of over 500 millimeters. And again, the rains recorded in Alexandria on October 13 were locally exceptional for all detection stations. For all stations (Lavagnina, Bric Castellaro, Sardigliano, Garbagna, Castellania, Gavi, Brignano-Frascata), the associated return time is about 200 years. Mine doesn't want to be just a statement of testimony (although the failure of the Minister to quote the flood of Alexandria is a serious act), but it is also a critical and self-critical reflection on these events. Certainly in the cleaning of the hives you could and can do more. It is necessary to find resources and also to make cleaning operations in the minor grid easier for the municipalities. The climate has changed. I quote only one fact for brevity: in these days, the Ligurian Sea has a temperature that is three degrees above average. This produced, according to the ARPA, an extraordinary energy accumulation that was discharged with the precipitation numbers that I have previously remembered. Prevention is crucial both in terms of attention to hydrogeology and in terms of greater accuracy of weather forecasts. We are increasingly faced with extremely localised events and we need to refine the prevention system. It is not necessary to leave the municipalities, families, businesses alone and from this point of view the law of stability must find the necessary resources to refuse the damage and start the phase of exit from the drama. At the same time, it is necessary to exclude from the Stability Pact interventions to protect the hydrogeological order and also the amounts of orders that mayors are issuing in recent days for the measures to secure the rii. Finally, thanks to the thousands of volunteers (in these days in my lands we have seen so many young people), to the Civil Protection, to the technical structures of the Provinces and the Municipalities for the extraordinary work done in these difficult days. I conclude with a thought, which is not only addressed to my land, to the mayors, to the administrators, to the families who have had their homes invaded by water, to the farmers, to the entrepreneurs, to the traders affected at a time when the economic crisis seems never to end. The state cannot and must not abandon them and we will do everything to ensure that this does not happen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister and the Undersecretary for finally coming to the Senate today to report on the recent alluvial events that have taken place throughout our country. I would like to stress recently, because I would like to express, from now on, my deep disappointment at the repeated and renewed forgetfulness that this Commission has also demonstrated today, on this occasion, with regard to what happened in Puglia, in September, in Gargano and in Capitana. I can say, without fear of being contradicted, that with today we have abundantly exceeded 45. In fact, more than 45 days have passed since the calamitous event that fell on that part of the territory of Apulia and, despite the two victims, the destruction of 14 municipalities, the start by the Prosecutor of Foggia of investigations on the hypothesis of crime such as manslaughter, manslaughter, violation of urban laws and omission of acts of office, of the presence and action of the Government, for the Gargano, we have only the visit (someone, not me, wanted to define the catwalk) made by the President of the Council in Peschici, but also by ministers Galletti and Martina, when the mud was so much and still fresh, but also his inevitable series of promises on the immediate declaration of the state of emergency and the allocation of resources ad hoc. To date, therefore, we seem to have to be content to measure the commitment of the national government with ever new assurances. Last week it was up to some Apulian MPs to report on how Renzi would personally guarantee the commitments made by the Government with the Municipalities of Gargano, while this week it was the turn of the Mayor of Bari Decaro, who, just under 48 hours ago, reported that he had heard directly from the Presidency of the Council and that in the first Council of Ministers next week will be declared the state of emergency for the Gargano. Perhaps it was not enough to have seen with one's own eyes, both from Civil Protection and from President Renzi himself but also from his ministers, the sea of mud that devastated the Puglia subregion to declare the obvious as appointed state of emergency and state of natural disaster. Only the Puglia Region - I want to say it because it must be said - has carried out all possible initiatives to obtain the recognition of a status that is in fact, and has put in place an aid machine that has shone for efficiency and readiness, just as recognized during the first national civil protection meeting, held in Vieste after a few days. I do not intend to continue by making the list - easy and obvious - of the meetings of the Council of Ministers that followed after these sad events, to reiterate how much this Commission has failed to do and what this Commission has not intended to follow up so far. Allow me, however, to report only one fact: last 30 September, during the Council of Ministers, a resolution was proposed for the state of emergency in the Gargano, but it was decided - this yes - not to proceed to its resolution because there were not sufficient financial cover for the first, initial requests made by the Civil Protection. And then, the only certainty is that if Palazzo Chigi is silent, the news that comes to us, for example, from the Minister of Agriculture, Martina, certainly do not encourage. The inclusion of the Province of Foggia in the advance of the PAC prizes, as reported a few days ago in a press release of the Ministry, is not even to be counted as one of the half remedies for the economic and productive system of that area. Starting from the fact that this measure concerns all Italian agricultural enterprises, we do not understand the reason why to date there has not yet been a minimum allocation of resources due to the emerging situation that has invested a territory among the most suited to agricultural production of our entire country. I find no objection able to absorb and hold back criticism of the failure of the Ministry of Agriculture to declare a state of natural disaster for these territories. I am referring here to initiatives that allow, for example, the reduction of INPS contributions and the freezing of bank deadlines linked to agricultural loans, which are essential to stimulate a resumption of productive activity to farms damaged by atmospheric adversity or natural disasters. And, as if all this were not enough, I am forced to add yet another slap to this territory. Currently, in fact, the law of stability has not included the Gargano in the list of areas exempted from the payment of taxes. At this point, I really miss the reason for this obstinate ostracism against a part of our country. The only word the Minister said about the Gargano in his information this morning on the sublime alluvial events, in a crystal clear way, what the Government has done so far: I can only take note of it. The government agenda, as we know, is full of commitments, announcements, but also captivating innovations. Today - and I conclude - one has been reiterated, perhaps yet another. I would not, however, like to see even the non-deferable plan against the hydrogeological failure end up in the jersey of silence, that is, in that limbo that often combines the commitments that are not fulfilled with the promises that have not been fulfilled. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss hydrogeological disruption, our minds can only lead us to the images of the last few days: Genoa, Trieste, the Gargano this summer - it was remembered just now - and, before that, Senigallia, in my Region. The watchword is to prevent phenomena such as these from happening again, as happened in Liguria. The watchword is to give concrete and immediate answers to citizens. That is why I believe that the responsibility and credibility of the political class must go hand in hand with the need to address the issue of hydrogeological failure, an emergency that has not spared the people of the North, the South and Central Italy. In our country the risk of landslides and floods affects practically all the national territory. About two out of three municipalities have houses in their own territory in golenal areas, close to the beehives and in areas at risk of landslides, as the Minister said this morning; in one third of the cases they are even whole neighborhoods. Highly critical areas account for almost 10% of the national area and account for 89 percent of the municipalities. Global warming will lead to an inevitable rise in extreme phenomena. The Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has quantified in 40 billion euros the expenditure for the safety of our territories. Finding and finding resources is crucial. Relevant interventions that can also contribute to giving momentum to the economy of the territory, giving breath to the enterprises that can recover and create employment, concern the Regions. The Democratic Party, in the so-called competitiveness decree, has proposed that since 2015 resources intended to finance hydrogeological risk mitigation actions are excluded from the Stability Pact, on the basis of a programme agreement to be signed between the Ministry of the Environment and the regions concerned, which will have to provide for the co-financing fee. In Marche, my Region, thanks also to this measure, will arrive about 13 million to start work in the rivers at risk on the coast devoured by the tides and in the historical centers that crumble landslide after landslide. In this regard, we thank Minister Galletti, who signed the supplementary act to the programme agreement on the mitigation of hydrogeological risk in the Marche Region, fundamental signature for the transfer of funds to municipalities and for triggering the iter for calls for tenders. This act will allow to follow up the interventions for the expansion fund planned in Bettole-Brugnetto, for the defense of Senigallia from the risk of floods, a fundamental work in order to avoid the repetition of those events that unfortunately have already hit our territory heavily. Other resources can be found, through the reprogramming of national and Community funds 2007-2013 late in spending, for the implementation of a national plan of cantierabile interventions, to be agreed with the local authorities, and to resolve the environmental criticalities that affect the Italian territory and that are of urgency, such as hydrogeological failure, waste management, water protection, air pollution and coastal erosion. Also the so-called decree-law unblocks Italy and the law of stability will have to be the occasion to nourish this awareness. It is also important that Mr Orfini's proposal to use the resources of privatisation not to reduce debt but for urgent investments, starting from the prevention of hydrogeological failure, to secure the country, to create employment and to restart development. One priority, as explained by the motion tabled by some of the members of the Democratic Party, is that of the Italian Parliament to speed up the adoption of the law on land use to give the Commons clear and transparent legislative references on which to move. It is also a priority legislative initiatives that rationalise and uniform the procedures for the activation of national interventions of assistance to the populations and reconstruction in the territories affected by calamitous events, defining at best the role of the territorial autonomy in order to ensure the coordination of the action of government, the Regions and the local authorities. I close, President, by expressing closeness to the mayor of a small town in my Province, which in recent days has had to stage a striking protest. Two years after the flood that struck my Province in 2012, the reconstruction works of the castle walls have not yet begun. The President of the Marche Region has signed in February a decree that grants the Municipality little less than 1.2 million euros for the restructuring of the walls, but bureaucratic constraints and labyrinths, resorts to the TAR, Stability Pact and scarce resources are preventing the beginning of the works, with the risk that the population is again invested and overwhelmed by the bad weather. That is why we have a duty to act quickly. I agree with Mr Fornaro's words regarding gratitude to the Forces of Order and all the volunteers who at all times strive to alleviate the people and lighten the administrations on what to do. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u28	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u29	Mr President, illustrious Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have so much controversy to do, but I do not want to do it myself, because the citizens are doing it in Genoa. It is news of news that a few hours ago thousands of people gathered in the square, with the hashtag "#Ora Basta" and went under the palaces of the Region and the Municipality manifesting their anger in a strong way. Personally, I have decided to put this space at the disposal of the trade associations that have delegated me to bring to you, Minister, and to read to all colleagues a letter from ASCOM, Confartigianato, CNA Provincial Association, Coldiretti and Confesercenti, letter of which I read: The serious flood that struck our city once again saw many commercial and craft activities again affected that had already been seriously damaged in previous flood events of 2011. This is a new dramatic event that affects many economic activities of our city. What has happened again forces us to see the necessity that Genoa becomes a national case for a definitive intervention on our territory; intervention aimed at the safety of the torrents and in general of all the hydrogeological system at risk. It is necessary that the Government, the Region and the Municipality take charge of this emergency. The country must become aware that Genoa is in a state of extreme fragility from the hydrogeological point of view and that it represents a national emergency. Genoa is the site in Europe where there have been more floods in the last 50 years. This is why we are asking for a special law, as in the case of Venice, to define ad hoc interventions for our city, not only in the plumbing sector but also in the planning of alluvial emergencies. Genoa with its port is one of the fundamental nodes for the economy of the Country in relation to the sorting of the goods. If our city is blocked, the flow of goods is blocked throughout the North and in Europe. With regard to the payment of local taxes and taxes, we are not just asking for their suspension, but we are asking for a total exemption for all the companies affected by the flood. We demand that the laws relating to damages be changed, with a decree that immediately alters the bureaucracy foreseen for these events, making available the sums for flood victims within a few months. The Government must commit itself to allocating a sum capable of covering all the costs borne by companies due to the flood, in order to ensure its survival. We urge the creation of a credit fund through the Chamber of Commerce and the Region, through the trusted consortia present on the territory, which provides an emergency allocation in order to guarantee access to credit of flooded companies. In addition to this, loans should be granted at very low rates and depreciation should start not earlier than 2016, in order to facilitate the recovery of economic activity during 2015. Beyond the works that must be planned for our territory, Genoa will remain an extremely fragile site for which it is required that funding be activated for all traders and craftsmen who are in areas at risk for the installation of protection barriers in shops and craft workshops. The Small Business Table strongly calls for the provision of City Hall evacuation plans for City Hall, in collaboration with trade associations, which define the behaviour of each entrepreneur in the event of an emergency. It must be avoided that the panic situation created can be transformed into the launch of continuous alerts such as to prevent the performance of our activities as has occurred after the events of 2011. The letter is signed by the presidents of ASCOM/Confcommercio, Confesercenti, CNA, Confartigianato and Coldiretti. I, Minister, will now hand over this letter to you on behalf of the trade associations. I marry many of the things that colleagues have said, especially what Senator Lanzillotta said. We try to think seriously of putting Commissioners ad acta for a serious case like Genoa, because we have not been able in these thirty years to solve it ourselves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u31	Mr President, the figures we have heard in this House show that Italy is certainly one of Europe's most fragile hydrogeological countries. There are about 1,000 landslides every year and at least 100 floods occur in our territory, with or without victims; these phenomena affect an average of 300,000 people. The national area affected by hydrogeological risks related to landslides and floods is almost 10% of the total and the municipalities at risk are almost 6,000 (70% of the total of the municipalities of Italy). These are impressive numbers, which finally lead us not only to mere reflections or buffer interventions, but to tackle this problem once and for all organically and with the utmost attention. There is a very high risk of territorial exposure and it is a problem of great social importance, both for the number of victims and for the damage caused to homes, industries, infrastructure and crops. It is clear that the intensification, in recent years, of the phenomena of failure cannot be attributed exclusively to natural events or only to the weather, but also and above all to a model of intensive and poorly programmed exploitation of the soil and the territory. In many cases they are phenomena connected with the nature of the territory or closely dependent on the orography and geomorphology of the land and the funds; but in many other circumstances the failure appears instead as a consequence of the modification of the territory by man, with construction of infrastructures such as roads, bridges, railways and houses that often impact the natural environment, causing what is before everyone's eyes. The abusive houses built on the natural beehives of the rivers and streams, intensive agriculture on the edge of the banks, the wild harnessing of the streams with frightening streams of cement and still other human actions, such as deforestation, poor use of soils, waterproofing of the land, the abandonment of agricultural land (which our farmers were cared for with the manual regimenting of the water) and many other causes dependent on man's hand have contributed significantly over time to the transformation of safe places in areas at risk, areas that before of course were not. Liguria, as many colleagues have already said, has become the paradigm of this disaster. This is what is happening in almost all the country, where in recent months we have witnessed the loss of numerous lives and major damage in all the Italian regions. And, after every incident, polemics, bounces of responsibility and dumps in front of the legitimate protests of the citizens, tired of shoveling mud and counting the dead. Net of the structural interventions that will have to be carried out, where in Italy something works, happens what happened in the paradoxical case of the engineer Sciacca, already head of the civil genius of Messina. The man who in a short time, after the disaster of Giampilieri and Scaletta Zanclea of 2009, did in Messina what was not done in Genoa, was removed from the assignment with the usual escamotage of the promoveatur ut amoveatur, just because he launched alarm screams on the weakness of the territory of Messinese and blocked the construction of eight-storey palaces on ridges at risk. It is therefore necessary, Mr President, even more so today than before, to take appropriate measures to enable us to pursue our model of economic and social development, by optimising the available space resources and taking into account the fact that emergency costs can only be reduced if specific territorial policy choices are imposed aimed at prevention, constant maintenance, the use of the best construction techniques and the imposition of constraints and limitations of use. It seems appropriate to plan strategic and active policies to avoid being forced to cope with what is now a state of continuous emergency. The defence of the soil today is an inescapable necessity for all of us. These events, which are repeated now cyclically, show how it is a constant emergency throughout the national territory: floods, floods, backsliding of the shores, landslides and subsidies, as of course earthquakes, lead to loss of human lives and considerable material and environmental damage. Human intervention and human pressure on the territory have accelerated or triggered these natural processes or transformed the territory, making it vulnerable to destabilising processes to which we are all called today to give answers with concrete interventions to safeguard the entire territory, which is literally falling apart. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u33	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago I intervened in this House to talk about the damage caused by the flood in Emilia-Romagna: on that occasion too, I reiterated the need to cure the environmental wounds of our country, highlighting the absolute fragility, the hydrogeological failure, the damage caused by the savage cementification and, in the final analysis, calling for firm and decisive action by the institutions. A year later, we are still here discussing it with a pattern that is always identical to itself: the count of the victims and the economic damage, the despair of the people, the craftsmen, the entrepreneurs and the families who have lost everything, to whom our solidarity and our support naturally go. Never before does Italy appear to be a fragile country, which is not able to guarantee the security of its territory, of the people who live there and of the activities carried out there. Never before, in the eyes of the citizens, the State appears as the one who sang Fabrizio De André: a State that is dismayed, indignant, commits itself and then throws the towel with great dignity. We can't wait any longer. This government has given itself a thousand-day perspective to change the face of the country: you change it, but there can be no real change if you do not secure the territory. We have an immediate need for norms against building abuse and against everything that has challenged nature and still continues to scar it, knowing then that those who pay the most salty bill are the others. We need exceptional measures and funding to help the affected people, with a bureaucracy to which laziness and indolence must be removed from the pain of the citizens and the need to do things right and to do them quickly. We need a real Marshall Plan to secure the territory. A plan that represents a point of redemption of the country, the beginning of a path to get out of the sense of resignation and the economic crisis. We have signed for this purpose some motions, in particular No 308 (text 2), which was signed by the majority of the members of the Autonomous Group. Together with all this, we need a radical reform of the rules that restrain and harness the most stubborn will, even that of the most conscientious administrator. You see, Madam Undersecretary, the Minister's intervention appreciated above all a passage: that concerning bureaucratic delays or those situations in which, due to problems affecting contractors, the work is interrupted, with serious damage to everyone. On this subject, a few days ago, I tabled an urgent question in committee, and an agenda was presented to the House by my fellow self-employed Members. These acts concern procurement procedures which can be easily challenged by companies which have not proved to be winners, with the result that the realization of public works is almost always blocked, with all that follows from the point of view of the failure to secure the territory. We need to take prompt action to speed up the procedures for the award of works, but above all we need to reduce the time taken for appeals and the introduction of corrective measures; we must allow work to continue even in the presence of pending appeals, limiting the forms of protection to compensation per equivalent, in order to allow the continuation of work. Otherwise, every time there will be appeals, every time it will start again from the first degree and then pass to the second and so on; and meanwhile the years pass. Let us not forget that what happened in Genoa costs, at the treasury, three times more than the works that would have avoided it. Inestimable figures must be added to this cost: lost lives, the pain of people, the loss of hope and trust. The credibility of a country in the eyes of its citizens also passes from the ability to carry out a work. The safety of our country, at this moment, depends on these works. I don't think it's time to wait anymore. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u34	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u35	Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 October Genoa was devastatingly affected by an alluvial event: a victim, an environmental disaster of such size that in words it is difficult to make him understand and give his dimension. The flood of three streams has caused considerable damage to people, things, homes and infrastructure and to the economic fabric in a time of crisis such as what we have been knowing, unfortunately, for a long time. Every year the announcements are that the next one will come out of the crisis, but to date we are not given to know what the right year for this Government will be! As if that were not enough, in 2011 this territory had already undergone events of such magnitude as to cause death and destruction. But it didn't help: in 2014, after three years, we are at the same point, leaving the Genoese territories at the mercy of events, trusting in the wheel of fortune. But that can't be enough: here you don't choose a vowel, President Renzi, but you decide the future of people! Preventive maintenance, planning and investments are needed, interventions, now improcrastinable, to secure territories at risk, including an intervention decided and not referable to abuse and infrastructure problems related to it. 48 percent of the municipalities of this country are at risk of flooding: and it is not I who say so, but the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in particular with dangers related to the increase of cyclones in the Mediterranean and the rains in the Alps, to the climate changes of which it must be noted. Genoa is only the last of the most recent events, together with Parma, apart from the Maremma, to the area of Muggia in Trieste. Even here dead and devastation. And then damages to agriculture, as in Alexandria, where about 150 hectares of vineyards have suffered damage with the obvious heavy implications for the economy of the agricultural sector. And then damage to the tourism industry, like the Gargano events. The Lombard territory since June has been experiencing continuous adverse weather events of this violence and intensity, bringing to its knees the economy of one of the most productive areas of the country. Water bombs, storms have also involved Veneto, another productive reality of primary importance: snowfalls and floods in the Provinces of Belluno, Padua, Treviso, Venice, Verona and Vicenza, as well as air trumpets that have certainly not spared the Province of Rovigo. Big damage everywhere, so much to demand the state of emergency for which we of the North League urge the Government to act immediately, as a matter of urgency! And then obviously arises the question of why this Government, emphasizing in words the importance of the protection of the soil and the security of the territory in this Senate House in September 2013, has not yet put the country in conditions that can intervene concretely, allocating and releasing resources. We call for all the resources devoted to the maintenance and prevention of the territory to be excluded from an absurd Internal Stability Pact, which puts on its knees virtuous realities, capable of defending people and territories, infrastructures and productive realities; for the extraordinary plan for the protection of the soil, which provided for up to 2.5 billion euros, to be implemented, including by studying the increase with European funds. We ask that young people be encouraged through experimental projects for the maintenance and protection of the territory, creating new job opportunities, allowing them to stay at home, without having to go abroad in search of a now denied future, also through the reuse of uncultivated and abandoned agricultural land, the cleaning of wooded areas and reforestation interventions. And let us not forget to thank them, these young people, for the volunteer work they have carried out and continue to carry out in the city of Genoa. A thank you definitely goes to them! Investing means giving means and resources to civil protection, to the great and inexhaustible machine of volunteering that works for free, but with professionalism and coordination, for their community. But we need resources, certain and immediate, that to date you have to foresee in the law of stability for 2015. Not cuts, expensive cuts, which, as denounced by the Governor of Veneto Zaia, will clear the funds against hydrogeological failure. This is shameful and happens in a region that had put in place from 50 to 70 million euros a year just to counter the hydrogeological failure, also preparing a Plan for over 2 billion to secure the territory, after the devastating flood of four years ago. (The Undersecretary Degani talks with an official.) It would be nice if the government could show some attention to this intervention. I would like to thank the Government, Mr President, and perhaps it would also be a gesture of fairness. [[Recalls of the President]] A Region - I said - with cantierable works, works in the planning phase, ready to propose itself as a laboratory of virtuosity for the hydraulic works in defense of the territory. Instead, there are the cuts imposed by a government that did not understand the importance of investing in these works, a government that is only alarmed when the disaster has already occurred. And then we mourn the dead, we count the damage, we make speeches of mourning and closeness, but then in essence nothing is done to speed up these works. Already in 2010 the reclamation consortia and the Veneto Region presented a five-year plan of hydraulic defense with 629 projects, worth 1 billion and 350 million euros, inserted in the largest hydraulic defense plan of the Region: necessary interventions, no longer procrastinable, for the greater security of the territory. Then, with its motion, the North League asks for concrete acts; no more words from electoral ads, no more promises to the wind. We want the commitment of a government that up to now has only been able to commit our resources to give nothing in return! Don't wait for another disaster to say: We were doing it. President Renzi, it is time to do: then do it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u36	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u37	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what my fellow Members have said about the seriousness of the situation and the need for appropriate measures. For years she has put her head under the sand in order not to address at the root the problem connected to the total hydrogeological fragility of vast areas of the national territory. Unfortunately, Brecht's well-known reflection is as follows: Everyone sees the violence of the river in full, no one sees the violence of the banks that force it. And this sentence effectively describes what has happened, and continues to happen for too long, in Genoa, in Liguria, from the coast to the hinterland. It is an example of the dysfunction that afflicts this country. First of all, I thank all the young people and the Genoese for their great civic sense and their solidarity at such a dramatic time for our city. In Genoa, a city with less and less inhabitants and more and more elderly, it has been built too much and foolishly. While one imagines imposing infrastructures, moreover badly connected with those same areas that should serve, the entire hydraulic system has jumped and catastrophic phenomena continue to follow ever closer. Are we sure that the policies of containment of hydrogeological risk for Genoa, its Province and the whole of Liguria, are effective? To start giving concrete answers, we should start to wonder whether the climate situation is the same as it was forty years ago, whether the works that we imagine to protect the city are really effective and how much part of the city are actually safe. But we should also consider how the response of the urban fabric to alluvial events has changed over the years; how the extent of damage is changing and what measures, including regulations or insurance, should be taken to mitigate them. In Genoa we continue to pursue a design idea on the works of safety that goes back forty years, as if the city, economic activities and the climate had not changed in the meantime. The same safety work that cannot even be completed - and in some cases even to begin - is beginning to appear little compared to the scale of the problem. I hope to receive as soon as possible a reply to my urgent question on 14 October. The citizens of my Region have the right to know as soon as possible what extraordinary and urgent measures the Government intends to take to secure the territory. There is also a need to provide for appropriate tax measures to compensate for the serious economic damage suffered by individuals and economic activities. I conclude by wishing that, beyond the open emergencies, there is the concrete will of the Government to look to the future, to the safety from the hydrogeological point of view of Liguria and of the whole national territory. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u38	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have had this important and decisive debate. We did so - as other Members have already mentioned - on 3 October 2013, outside any specific emergency and closing that debate in the Chamber with the approval of a large majority motion. Today we are discussing in the aftermath of yet another devastating atmospheric event for the citizens and businesses of many municipalities and cities, in five regions of our country, and I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed information and considerations that he presented to us this morning. In addition to Genoa, of which much has been said, I think of Parma and Piacenza, the province of Alexandria, the Maremma and in particular the province of Grosseto, Trieste and the other territories already affected in the months and in the previous years, such as Gargano and the Marches, or like my Province last January. These are events that reminisce us a topic of pressing topicality: that of hydraulic and hydrogeological risk. This is only part of the series of impacts caused by climate change that will still affect our country. Yes, because not everyone is aware, even in this House, that climate change is one of the greatest challenges that humanity is facing right now and will have to face in the coming years. It is an increasingly pressing challenge, given the record concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, documented by the latest report of the UN International Weather Organisation, released on 9 September, which also showed a continuous acceleration of greenhouse gas emissions due to human activity and, in particular, the use of fossil fuels. 18.14 (Follow VACCARI). According to the scientific evidence presented both in the IPCC's latest evaluation report and in the 2012 European Environment Agency's report on climate indicators, the European region, and in particular the Mediterranean region, will face particularly negative impacts in the coming decades, which, combined with the effects of human pressures on natural resources, make the Mediterranean region one of the most vulnerable areas in Europe. Italy, therefore, is located in an area particularly delicate and vulnerable to the negative impacts of climate change that occur and will manifest mainly with an exceptional increase of the average and maximum temperatures, with increase of the frequency of extreme weather events and with the reduction of the average annual precipitations and river flows, with consequent possible decrease of the agricultural productivity and loss of natural ecosystems. In recent years there has been a repetition of particularly intense atmospheric events that, combined with fragility and too often carelessness and negligence towards the Italian territory, have manifested in a catastrophic way their danger, up to the loss of numerous human lives and with damage to millions of euros for socio-economic activities. I would just like to mention one thing: since 1998, the year of the Sarno flood, only floods have caused damage amounting to about EUR 8 billion. In recent years, various activities have been undertaken at European level to support national, regional and local climate change adaptation policies, which must be combined with the indispensable mitigation actions and, therefore, drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In April 2013, the European Commission adopted and published the European Adaptation Strategy, with the main objective of making Europe more resilient to the effects of climate change through better preparedness and risk prevention capacity for climate change impacts at local, regional, national and European level. The strategy must be a reference point for the relevant national strategies in Europe that have already been adopted and for those that are being prepared. To date, according to the latest Report on National Public Policies on Climate Adaptation in the European Countries, published on 14 October, 21 European States, including 18 members of the European Union, have adopted a national adaptation strategy, while the others have embarked on the development process. Italy is among the countries that are about to approve, by October, its national strategy of adaptation, as Minister Galletti guaranteed during the question time of last week here in the Senate. The elaboration was initiated in July 2012 by the Ministry of the Environment, which entrusted the Euro-Mediterranean Climate Change Centre with technical and scientific coordination to acquire the basic information necessary to develop the strategy. This process ended last July with the elaboration of a package of documents that are the basis of the national strategy: a technical-scientific relationship that analyses the vulnerabilities of our territory to the present and future impacts of climate change, a summary of the relationship itself and a technical-legal relationship that has examined the Community and national legislation relevant to the impacts, vulnerability and adaptation in which more than 30 directives and regulations are analysed. Finally, a document containing elements for a national strategy for adaptation to change was also delivered, which, based on previous reports, provides proposals for sectoral short-term adaptation actions (by 2020) and long-term actions (2030-2050). The events of Genoa and those that occurred first throughout the country due to repeated and concomitant weather events tell us that this country needs to adopt immediately this national strategy of adaptation: measures, actions, monitoring networks, forecast and alert - we have just incardinated the bill on the environmental agency that previews them - a new public governance, certain and multiannual resources able to plan interventions of maintenance and protection of the ground, of prevention of the failure and adaptation of the existing urban structures in order to face - sure - the consequences linked to the large and sudden masses of water, but also to the waves of heat, drought, water stress and the consequences on the health of the citizens. In particular, I would like to stress that the adoption of a national strategy can and should be the document from which regional and local adaptation strategies take shape. I am referring to the so-called 'Mayors Adapt', which is the action launched by the European Union in recent days, which is similar to the strategy of the Covenant of Mayors to promote the engagement of cities in the development of local strategies for adaptation to climate change. To date, 68 cities have already joined the initiative and, among them, 20 Italian cities: Bologna was the first Municipality and Lombardy was the first Region. Obviously it is not just about making plans and forecasts or looking for scapegoats to entrust the absolute faults of everyone and everything, but about knowing to prevent and adapt our territory and our cities to what can happen. However, not only hydraulic works and water regimation will be needed, as well as important and decisive, perhaps if realized with innovative techniques. In view of Expo 2015, we have an additional duty and responsibility: to find the tools to protect our enormous cultural wealth, biodiversity and typical productions from the upheavals that a changed climate can produce, stopping the consumption of soil. We need a new European project of sustainable development, fair and inclusive, capable of tackling both the economic and financial crisis, as well as the ecological and climate crisis, promoting new green production activities, transforming many of the existing ones. That is the only way we can apply to attract some of those development resources promised by Commissioner Juncker. For the first time in this country, the Government has made an important strategic choice by setting up the Mission Structure against Disaster at the Presidency of the Council, with the aim also to simplify and unlock important works and to invest in a continuous substantial resources on prevention. But now we need a framework law on natural disasters able to respond in a homogeneous way, from the Valle d'Aosta to Sicily, to the emergencies that will arise again, clarifying once and for all the modalities that must be followed in order to assist the affected population, to relieve it from the various tax and tax duties, in order to start parallel the phase of the reconstruction and restoration of enterprises, houses and public works, in order to equip the system of national civil protection of the necessary human and financial resources. In order to be in Europe, we also need to change step on this ground. Let's do it soon, let's do it well, let's do it together! [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mastrangeli and Panizza]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u40	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u41	Madam President, we have already said this. In September last year, we all presented motions, including one at the first signature of Senator Cioffi, which was also positively evaluated by the Government and yet was not voted by the majority. We have even signed a majority agenda in the Environment Commission because we want solutions to the problems and we do not have any preliminary positions, yet nothing has changed. We find ourselves saying the same things a year later, with unfortunately other disasters behind us (which have very high costs and involve the allocation of funds that we cannot invest in structural work and ordinary maintenance) and other deaths. What do you think of this? The first thing that comes to my mind is a statement made by Mr De Rosa when he said that one of the first things he had to learn by entering Parliament is that in politics we must distinguish what he says he wants to do from what we want to do: the first category includes initiatives aimed at finding consensus and are used to publicise an idea that will never be implemented; the second includes the works that are actually done, which must be taken into account, the only ones with which the work of a government and a majority must be weighed down. We can understand then why the proposals of law on the stop to the consumption of the territory lie; that of the Five Star Movement is certainly the most irony and more determined on the stop of the consumption of the agricultural soil, but it has been put aside to the point that the colleagues have had to resubmit a revised one. This does not surprise me either, given the decrees that are proposed by the Government, including the last ones are the so-called unblocking Italy or the future law Lupi on urban planning. We realize that as long as we are faced with a government that makes measures such as Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, that has removed the incentives for renewables to give more to fossil, all the words that the Minister used in this House and all those uttered by colleagues are vague words in the wind, it is propaganda that serves to show voters what they want to do, but it is not done. It is important that citizens have entered these classrooms and have carefully studied the documents, because it is impossible that with a future law on urban planning that drowns concrete from all sides we can talk about prevention in the territory. We are going against exactly what we are saying here. This is the case in all sectors, it is the case in energy choices. The unblocking of Italy, which we know will certainly come to this House with a matter of trust and it will only be an opportunity for us to vent our own Parliament for a little while and to which we will not be able to make any changes, is a hallucinating text. We realize that talking about the security of the territory is equivalent to saying falsehood, because in that measure there is other cement, there is another consumption of the territory and above all we move the energy plan from renewable energies still to fossil, in a determined and certain way, because these works are considered strategic works of national interest indeferable and unavoidable. So, gentlemen, we need to stop playing theater and using words as electoral propaganda. Here we are doing the facts and we must always measure ourselves by facts alone. The Minister said that the monitoring system, a very important instrument of detection and alerting, belongs to the regions and municipalities. That is certain, but we must also be honest with ourselves: we need to support these plans, we need the government to put in place a national strategy to support these plans, because we know for sure that we cannot prevent new similar events from happening again in urban areas, because the widespread environmental abuse that has come to generate over the decades is there and we cannot stop it, it would take 42 billion investment to get everywhere and instead we talk about three billion jobs that are not leaving, maintenance jobs that are not done. Investing in monitoring and alerting is the only possibility that can actually give us the certainty to save at least human lives. Yet I am echoed as a sinister sound by the memory of those laughter, the night of the earthquake of L'Aquila, which were recorded, because unfortunately the model of this country is the model of the emergency, which works in derogation for easy profits that speculate on disasters. That's why there is no maintenance, that's why letters come in asking, three years later, because the rivers have not yet been cleaned, because the beehives have not yet been released and we are really talking about the ABC. We have all repeated this, so none of us ignores the need to vigorously pursue the 2030 targets of reducing emissions, energy efficiency, developing renewables, reducing at least, says Europe, 40% of climate emissions, but we say more, because it is not enough and we must take initiatives that reduce CO2 emissions. But the industry resists, and the other day in the Commission I had to say that we have to take it slow, because there is the crisis and we cannot think of giving the industry additional costs. But why aren't the induced costs calculated, the costs of disasters, those of lost revenues, when it's necessary to give some oxygen to the territories where disasters take place and thus exempt them from paying taxes and taxes? We all agree on one thing: we must work in this six-month period to remove all maintenance and structural work from the Stability Pact, so that the municipalities and territories can actually invest. We have to stop doing minuets. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u42	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u43	I call the Government representative, Mr Degani, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u44	Madam President, I would ask for five minutes to be suspended pending the arrival of Mr Galletti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u45	Colleagues, since I believe it is in everyone's interest to listen to the Minister's reply, I suspend the sitting for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I call Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Land and the Sea, to whom I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u46	Madam President, I have listened very carefully to most of the speeches that have taken place today. First of all, I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken and who have participated in the debate, because I believe that the debate on a subject as important as the conflict with hydrogeological failure has also been useful for future prospects. As I said this morning, this is not a political issue: it concerns the whole country. If I put in line the speeches of most of the senators who have spoken in this House today and take away the polemics, which are rightly in a political debate, I find a great deal of convergence on the content and the things to do. In any case I find a great push for the Government to move forward with care and with the greatest effort in contrast to the hydrogeological failure, as an absolute priority. This is what I bring home from the debate I have witnessed today: I do not bring home controversy, but a responsibility, assumed by this branch of Parliament, to encourage the Government to move forward forcefully in all those acts and administrative procedures - and not only - that serve to combat the hydrogeological disruption. If my interpretation is true, I repeat the pact that I made this morning: there must be a pact between the Government and Parliament to go forward with responsibility, as soon as possible, so as to recover the time we have lost in the past years because of too complicated legislation - we said this morning - so, if one needs to simplify, on the other we must spend the resources that we already have and that we have seen there are many (a total of 2.3 billion). New resources must certainly be allocated, as I said, from the Cohesion Fund, to make other programme agreements with the regions that can set in motion other interventions, spreading in our country a culture of respect for the territory. In this regard, I would like to renew the Government's appeal to the two branches of Parliament to arrive, as soon as possible, at the adoption of two draft laws which I consider to be very important for the fight against hydrogeological failure: the one for the protection of soil and the one for the environment. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Di Biagio and Fucksia.]] Both of these bills, if approved, will be able to give a great help to the work that the Government will have to do. I believe that at this point there are all the conditions - and I hope this will happen - so that we do not share the content of the motions that you are going to vote on tomorrow. I think that if the responsibility that has emerged from Parliament today results tomorrow in a single motion, we will give the sense of a Parliament that responds very strongly to the right concerns of the people. I do not underestimate what is happening in Genoa in these hours: there is a great demand for responsibility on the part of politics. Today you have the opportunity to demonstrate by a formal act that you do not divide yourself on a motion or on a point of the motion, but you have the real awareness of a policy that is ready to respond to a strong call that - I repeat - comes in these hours from the citizens: we cannot underestimate what happened today in Genoa. It is clear - I say this - that the list of the last floods I made this morning responded to a request from the Senate: we have not forgotten the flood of Alexandria, which has the same value as the others and will have the same prompt and strong response from the Government. Many of you referred to the Gargano: the damage detection operation, which is preparatory to the declaration of the state of emergency, technically took time. I can tell you that at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers there will be a statement of the state of emergency for that area: I think this is an important fact, because from there all the operations and procedures will start to be able to respond to damages, with everything that this entails in terms of taxes and other things. I believe - and I renew my appeal to the Senate in this regard - that there are indeed all the conditions to be able to conclude the work carried out on this day in a dignified manner and to give a strong signal to Parliament on what I consider to be one of the priority issues of this Government and also of the policy of the coming months. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u49	RUTA (PD). Madam President, because of the intervention of the Minister, who seems to me to grasp the meaning with which we have written the motions, since I believe that they all have the will to give a strong signal, obviously through strong action by the Government, it would probably be appropriate to suspend the sitting to see if there are conditions for a united motion. If there were no such conditions it would not be serious and we could move on to the expression of opinions by the Government. However, from the first approaches it seems to me that we could surely reduce the number of motions, and so I think it is unnecessary to express opinions at this time because if the number of motions were reduced, even if there were not one but two or three left, the opinions should be expressed on the motions as rewritten by accepting the Minister's invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u50	Senator, I understand the intent, and it's commendable. We could therefore suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. to see if it is possible to reformulate or supplement the motions tabled, which would be a relevant political fact. Since there are no comments, this remains the case. (The sitting was suspended at 6.42 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.) He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u51	Madam President, since it seems to me that Mr Galletti's appeal has been accepted and that we are moving towards a unified solution, I would like to ask for the continuation of the debate to be postponed until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u52	Given the work in progress and appreciated the time, if there are no objections, I refer the continuation of the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and related motions on the protection of the soil to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u55	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, we have received information on the difficulty that President Napolitano has in signing the bill of stability, because it seems that there is still no boiling by the General Accounting Office of the State. The problem with the 5 Star Movement is that, first of all, this bill of stability is already in the hands of the European Commission, and it has come to it with some dots of suspension about the increase on VAT, which is due to start in 2016. We believe that, since the State Accounting had already indicated as random the coverage understood as spending... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Lezzi, I understand you should speak on another subject. Mr Lezzi (M5S). No, about that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His speech on bullying had been announced. Mr Lezzi (M5S). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unless you also mean this as a form of bullying. [[Laughter.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). No, Madam President, I may have alternated with my colleague, Mrs Montevecchi, but we had two different arguments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it, okay. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I was saying, Madam President, that the State Accounting Office has already pointed out several times that the coverage understood as a spending is uncertain. Among other things, we should deal with spending for the next few years for 50 billion, and we believe that it is impossible. As has been done with the cutting of the IRAP, which has been demolished, so it will basically be a retroactive rule since this year, we are afraid of the restoration of the previous rate, which will go to the disadvantage of small and micro enterprises, which are the ones most in difficulty, and all to the detriment of the announcements that Renzi makes on television, but of which we do not yet know anything here. It is also scandalous, as I said before, that this bill has not yet arrived at least in the relevant Commissions, even though it is already in the European Commission. Among other things, the circulation of drafts also states that the increased taxation on pension funds will be retroactive, in heavy and serious violation of the Taxpayer's Statute. We ask you to speak to President Napolitano and to report urgently to the Chambers on all the changes that are being made to the stability bill, as well as to send the text that was approved in the Council of Ministers on 15 October to the Commission immediately, because it has already spent almost a week. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u56	There will be a way to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u59	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, gentlemen, last Tuesday and Wednesday I passed them to Genoa, where, together with voluntary citizens (some of whom are also present in this House), we have shoveled mud and emptied roads, wineries and shops from tons of mud and destroyed things, so that we can also physically help our fellow citizens and better realize what it means to remain victims of a flood. We found ourselves in a city where the organization was entrusted to the common sense of volunteers and where the authorities were unable to cope with such a great tragedy. I remember that the neglect of the territory also caused another victim in Genoa. Thursday then I was in Maremma, in my Region, Tuscany, in the area of Albinia and Manciano, to better realize the disaster of the flood happened two days before. I would point out that this area had already been martyred in 2012, always by the flood. Then there was damage for hundreds of millions of euros: destroyed houses, business activities cancelled, in one night, especially in the area of Albinia. To date we are once again counting similar disasters, with two other innocent victims, two sisters of Manciano, Marisa and Graziella Carletti. One of them was a carpenter's wife. Since in this area I have left a piece of heart, because it is my second home, this event touches me very closely. These two ladies were overwhelmed by the waters of the Elsarella torrent in Elsa, in the locality of Sgrillozzo, which is little more than a rigagnolo. Two more innocent victims of the neglect of the territory. In that same road, the state highway No. 74 leading to Manciano, already there had been phenomena of similar floods. Since 2001 the dangers of this road have been reported too close to the level of the stream, and the experts reported that point as very critical. The Region of Tuscany writes this in the plan plan hydrogeological structure. Manciano is part of the regional basin of Ombrone, and in the general report of the IAP on the Ombrone basin there is a long list of interventions. At number 95 of the list of proposed interventions in order to reduce the risk, there is the altimeter and planimetric adjustment of the state road no. 74 (because it was then state) in the locality Sgrilla and Sgrillozzo, periodically submerged in the rainy seasons. In 2003 the State transferred the state to the region, which delegated to the Province the task of giving priority to the interventions. The resources to be managed are few compared to the 3 billion that would serve for Tuscany and, therefore, they make scales of priorities. But State 74 in that area isn't one of them. After the flood of 2012, the reclamation consortium cleans up and enlarges the bed of Elsa. But it is not enough, and at first full everything comes down, canceled in the blink of an eye. As often happens in Italy it is aimed at works of visual impact, great works and the maintenance of the territory is left at the top floor. The small works upstream are left out, perhaps also because it is difficult and of less advertising impact to organize ribbon cuts in the middle of the woods or fields! I would also point out that the terrible news these days is that on the victims of 2012 the prosecutor asked for the dismissal of the deaths. There's never a culprit for these deaths. It is only people who are guilty: to go out at the wrong time or to pass at that time on the wrong path. Currently the territory is managed by consortium of reclamation Tuscany South, born from the fusion between consortium OSA Albegna, consortium Colline del Fiora and consortium Bruna and Ombrone. The local administration is monocolor PD, with the blessing of Marras (former PD president of the Province of Grosseto) and Rossi (President PD of the Region of Tuscany). In these days have begun the rimpalli between the Region, with the governor Rossi, and the consortium of reclamation Now let's wait for the usual manfrina of the dischargebarile. But we know. If you lose everything or if you die of flood, the fault is of the rain god, of Jupiter Pluvio. It's the fault of someone who wasn't supposed to come through that exact place that day. Or perhaps, as someone in Maremma would say: "Piove, Government thief!" [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-335.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.09 a.m.
