ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the examination of all the amendments tabled in Article 1 continued. [[Brusio.]] I would ask my colleagues to turn down the buzz or leave the Chamber if they are not interested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, who are listening to us from outside, I would ask you, Madam President, to subscribe, if possible, to all of Senator De Petris' amendments and to be able to report on 1.68. I would also ask Senator D'Alì to be able to endorse Amendment No 1.1444 and to say a few words on this too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u10	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u11	SANTANGELO (M5S). Amendment 1.68 proposes amendments to Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution. I'd like to read them. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, believe me, it is impossible to move forward; if you prefer we can do so even later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u12	No, Senator, let's keep going. I ask all colleagues to lower the buzz because the accumulation of the various huts creates a total untenable noise for those who speak. I would therefore ask you to be silent or to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u13	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Article 56 of the Constitution states: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is six hundred and thirty, twelve of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. The amendment provides for the immediate reduction of the number of Members, so what we have been saying for a long time: rather than the unnaturalization of bicameralism with the almost elimination of one of the two Chambers, the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament both in the Senate and in the House would be the optimal solution, looking also at the report of Members in the two Chambers. At present, the number of Members is 630, 12 of whom are elected in the foreign constituency. With this amendment the total number would rise to 360, and of these six would be elected in the foreign constituency. That would keep an adequate number of Members. At the same time, the number of senators could also be reduced to 180, so that the relationship between senators and Members is one to two. This would be a huge reduction (I remember that the total number of Members is 945); if not, the solution could be to bring it to 750, but 800 could be an optimal number. This would certainly reduce costs more effectively than the current text, leaving the relationship between inhabitants and parliamentarians similar to that currently existing in Germany, France, the Netherlands and Poland. Moreover, with regard to the third paragraph of Article 55 of the Constitution, the right of passive electorate would be acquired no longer at 25 years but at 21. The amendment aims to eliminate an unjustified restriction suffered by persons under 25 years of age. These subjects will today be in a social condition increasingly close to the needs of society, having already carried out at that age associative experiences, volunteering or social service. Moreover, the most deserving - and that of meritocracy is one of the elements that we have been repeating for some time - will have already obtained the degree of three-year degree. However, there are very few Members between the ages of 25 and 30 to date, so this would make it possible to rejuvenate the political class throughout Italy. One of the fundamental problems that we have all faced is the malfunctioning of the machinery of institutions, not solely due to bicameralism or duplication of competences, but to the people themselves. Let me give you a practical example. At this moment, I am referring to the last about five or six months, a bicameral body (in this regard I also wonder what will happen to the bicameral Commissions with this reform) is without president, because President Gozi of the PD has maintained the double position for five months not allowing, with his resignation, to go to new elections. I am referring to the Italian delegation to the Assembly of the Council of Europe. Now, consider that from four sessions the Delegation is convened and a new election is requested. At this point, what do parties and people do? They do not appear because I am hostage to the former President, in this case a political majority force, the PD, who has not decided what to do and then the work of this Delegation is absolutely blocked. Madam President, consider that there have also been requests from the Presidents of the Senate and the House to unblock this impasse situation in which the Delegation to the Council of Europe has fallen for six months. We could then, by means of a common sense operation, establish a maximum number of convocations, within which we should proceed regardless of the guaranteed minimum legal number, so as to block these unacceptable obstruction operations, because a Commission cannot be held hostage by a single political force, but it must be representative of all other political forces. If a political force convenes these meetings and the others do not participate in them, because we are talking for the umpteenth time about the exchange of seats, and if there is only one person (at this moment it is undersecretary Gozi of the PD, I am sorry to say, but it is he) who is holding the entire Commission hostage, if we go beyond the people, through changes that could also be simple regulatory changes, we could have the election of the President of a fundamental bicameral body such as the Delegation to the Council of Europe after a number of elections and not forever. At this point I also wonder, because I understand that perhaps the majority cannot reach a synthesis and agree, what is the function of the oppositions in these Chambers. In this case, consider that even Forza Italia - here is President Romani - and the North League have been held hostage by the Government and therefore neither do they participate in the assemblies for the vote, not guaranteeing the minimum number required. I wonder what advantage the opposition can have in discussing and playing the game of the majority and therefore not presenting itself, without guaranteeing the quorum. Madam President, I also appeal to you if you can speak in any way. I am beginning to conclude, but I would also like to say something about Amendment 1,1444, tabled by Senator D'Alì. The work that is being done these days also leads to this: an amendment, in my opinion and of the 5 Star Movement, absolutely well done, because it is acceptable both from the point of view of the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, 315 in the House and 150 in the Senate, all elected, so this is an important thing, and both because it provides for a constituent Assembly that takes place with absolutely shared ways. I read the text of Senator D'Alì's amendment last night and I have to say that it is as if he had written it together with the 5 Star Movement. If you allow me to subscribe to it, Senator D'Alì, we will gladly give you our full support and support in voting for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking as co-signator of Amendment No 1.69 at the first signature of Senator De Petris, with whom the number of Members and Senators is reduced to 360 and 180. I must point out, however, that, contrary to what some Members have indicated, my idea of changing the Chambers differs from the method. My idea of democracy is centered on the representation of citizens, and therefore I define the perfect bicameralism the right representation of the management of res publica in a scale of representativeness that goes from anarchy, where everyone represents himself, to the dictatorship, where only one is represented. Here, many of the changes that are being made to our Charter push for this form of government, while, although utopianally, the first is the one closest to the complete freedom of expression of citizens. All intermediate degrees that deviate from bicameralism towards one or the other extreme do not do the good of society nor do they honor the history and culture that humanity has written since it began its evolutionary path. Now, the Constitutional Charter represents, even if only for the high value of dialogue by all the political forces that participated in its realization, passing obviously for the high human cost that had to be paid to get there, the highest example of guaranteeing the greater representativeness and protection of the rights of every citizen. I was saying, therefore, if we really have to put our hands on this text, we have to do it with the calmest possible sharing, ensuring that all, or at least most, of the different visions of possible democracies are satisfied. At a time when a party, that is, a party, is trying to put a hand in it, and this is not the first time it happens, it should have a particular care in the approach and method, seeking the maximum possible openness and leaving the opposition adequate space for the different political vision to be taken into consideration. This was also what the constituent Fathers hoped for, including in our primary law the possibility of using popular referendums in the event of the lack of a two-thirds majority of the votes in this House. Precisely because the Charter is fundamental for the life of the Republic itself, the reasons for putting in hand should be absolutely substantial and meritful, and not of a merely media nature and, yes, populist or, even worse, a simple calculation of seats to ensure absolute power. Making a Florentine cream is not already a good example of statesman behavior, but massacre it by pretending to create reforms, selling them for fundamentals, demanded by Europe and necessary for the exit from the crisis is almost criminal. The costs of politics, these are the reasons for helping us, they seem a little... but let's not. Incidentally, I must acknowledge the Premier's skill in selling his government program, but he still remains a salesman of pots, those of the worst kind, those who sell pots in which you burn the dish. Most of the foreheads have been copied from the program of the 5 Star Movement, and so far it would denote intelligence (politics is understood), then sin the development totally opposite to ours in the underlying part. That of the costs of politics, yes, is our theme, felt and necessary if you want to give a chance, a signal, to this tortured country. We have dealt with this issue and we are implementing it, for what is possible as a force of opposition and in all the fora in which we were elected; the Government's recipe is slightly different. Instead of cutting the costs of allowances, which we are doing, we want to cut on representativeness, eliminating direct election and/or numerically decreasing the components, effectively eliminating the representation of citizens and treating it as saving public money: the usual lie. I have indeed signed this amendment which goes in that direction, but at least it provides for a reduction in both branches of Parliament. Yes, because one thing is to say that we reduce the cost of politics by halving the allowance; on the other hand, it is to remove representativeness, in spite of constitutional dictates, by decreasing its representative factor in relation to the population; banally - don't get hurt - because the higher the number of chairs, the harder it becomes to buy them. This amendment is a compromise for me, it is proof that we want to contribute to a fair and equitable reform of the Constitution. I have added the signature to meet you, in order to mediate between my position, which is more guaranteed, and the one, more radical, which came out of the 1st Commission. It is a gesture of good will, and I expect you to return, not for us but for the Italian citizens. Finally, Madam President, allow me to thank you, the House and the Group leaders for having left the day of the next 26th of September free from sitting so that I can participate (in fact, I invite all my colleagues to do the same) in the No TAV march, which will take place at 2 p.m. on Saturdays from Giallone to Chiomonte, in the Valley of Susa, one of the last principals of democracy still existing in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u17	D'ALI' (NCD). Madam President, I asked for the floor because I was asked by my colleague Mr Santangelo. Of course, I have no problem with him and other Members signing my amendment 1,1444, which I have properly outlined in the general debate and which proposes the election of the constituent Assembly in place of this affair which we are now living in a somewhat Kafkian way. Therefore, if other Members want to do so, I can only be happy and grateful. [[Applause from Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u20	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I too would like to endorse Senator D'Alì's amendment 1.1444. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u21	Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1.70, first signed by Senator De Petris. One of the counter-reformer aspects of this reform is the overcoming of bicameralism through the definition of a new bicameral system, which sees the Titular Chamber exclusively as a body representing territorial institutions. The theme of representation, according to the Constitutional Charter, sees the Senate as the body of territorial institutions and must remain with elective representation. In European comparative experience, the reference to institutional territorial reality as a specific substrate of representativeness goes beyond the limits of the Senate's treatment as a hall of the simple representations of regional and municipal authorities. We believe that the distribution of seats and the reduction in the number of members of the two Chambers must and can be changed. The value of national unity should never be forgotten because it is the focal point of the same national reality, which today and now we of the 5 Star Movement want to protect. The aim of this amendment is to highlight the reduction in the number of Members. The M5S has proposed a reduction in both the number and expenditure and the saving of unnecessary waste and costs. It has been said that we are faced with a deep crisis of representation and lack of participation, certainly due to a lack of involvement, education, awareness since the first years of school, because of the absence of civic education and the implementation of forms of direct and participatory democracy, which instead in the school - and in the class group in particular - find the first and most important development, as in the assemblies of class and institution, where the children are stimulated and educated to a participation of direct democracy and are - or should be - encouraged to participate. This is the source of the protection of democracy, the protection of sociality and the protection of civil society. Today, however, we are witnessing something else; other from respect, other from the desire to defend democracy, other that is defined with sentences of immense ambiguity. I read the article of the Attorney General Scarpinato who makes a worrying analysis of how the sense of truth and protection of truth is being lost. He writes: I still have in my eyes the image of a President of the Republic who, coming to Palermo after the massacre in Via d'Amelio, remained prisoner of a huge crowd; a crowd that overwhelmed in its uncontrollable impetuation the cordons of protection of the police and from whose row stood the cry "murders" addressed to the highest representatives of the institutions. This is a testimony of what is manifested by the departure from social participation, because, twenty-two years after the massacre, we still do not know what story to tell to ourselves and our children. We are deprived of the truth and essential parts of it. The deprivation of truth is not only a vulnus to justice, but it is a deprivation of truth to society itself. This truth with the modification of the constitutional reform blocks and indisputably prevents the initiation of investigations on matters of public interest concerning territorial autonomy. It is clear that, from the constitutional point of view, there is a huge problem of a legal nature. Regional councillors and mayors, appointed by regional territorial reference councils, may act - or may not act - with the same powers as the investigative judiciary, although excluding matters relating to individual personal freedoms. Huge powers, therefore, deriving from indirect electoral legitimacy, which can carry heavily a local inquiry. Another piece that shows - in spite of verbal denials - the evident authoritarianism of the reform of the Renzi government. The amendment of the constitutional text before us presents a further problem. While the text originally proposed by the Government operated on the first paragraph of Article 82, conferring on the Chamber alone - and not the Senate - the power to set up committees of inquiry, the new text defined by the Commission states, in the first paragraph, that the Chamber of Deputies may arrange investigations on matters of public interest, while the Senate of the Republic may arrange investigations on matters of public interest concerning territorial autonomy. Only for the House is it established that the Committee of Inquiry is formed in such a way as to reflect the proportion of the various Groups. It follows that the bicameral committees of inquiry could presumably only concern matters of public interest relating to territorial autonomy. The new second paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution would seem to foreshadow different arrangements for the composition of the Committees of Inquiry in relation to each branch of Parliament, but for the part relating to the Senate members would be appointed in a manner not proportional to the representation of parliamentary groups. There would be bicameral commissions clearly unbalanced. And since the power of inquiry requires a clear balance between legislative and judicial power, these are not small issues. As far as the Senate is concerned, there is absolutely no doubt about the boundaries of public interest matters relating to the territorial autonomy on which the formation of senatorial committees of inquiry is permitted. If we were to assume a unique interpretative criterion, we should refer to Article 30 of the draft law, which identifies matters of state and regional competence. But unfortunately this article, which only formally eliminates the concurrent competence, presents an equally obscure formulation, where it attributes to the State (and therefore to the Chamber) the mysterious general and common provisions in a series of very important matters such as health protection, food safety, protection and safety at work, education, the environment and the ecosystem, cultural activities and tourism and the government of the territory itself. On these matters a general state competence and a regional competence come into play. It is clear that, given the general nature of the wordings adopted by the text, the State-Regions dispute could be transferred to a Chamber-Senate dispute on the Commissions of Inquiry, with a serious risk of uncertainty due to the overlapping of competences and the exercise of the delicate powers of the judiciary, which are inherent in the function of inquiry. It could even result in a multiplication of Commissions - and costs - in cases where it was not possible to form bicameral Commissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u24	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have asked to speak in order to announce the signing of Senator D'Alì's amendment 1.1444. I also ask that all the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the League be signed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u25	Madam President, I support Amendment No 1.73 by Mrs De Petris and I will also try to put it to the best of my ability. I would point out that this amendment deals with the reduction in the total number of Members, not only of this branch of Parliament, and also deals with the issue of the minimum age to participate actively in the political life of the country. In the course of last week's debate, but in part, I would also say amply, during the presentation of some amendments, much has been discussed about the problems related to the qualitative breakdown of the functions carried out by the Senate as foreshadowed by this historic constitutional reform, but also about the lack of substantial mechanisms of balance and democratic guarantee due to a profound numerical disproportion in the composition of the two Chambers. However, I do not wish to dwell on this aspect, because it seems reasonable to me from the content of the debate - as I have already pointed out - to think that not only my political side has concerns and concerns, which have already been expressed a great deal in the previous amendments. I must say, however, that I was very surprised when the rapporteur, at the end of the general debate, invited us to examine the content of the reform without dwelling on the new electoral law, which, since it is not yet law, will not displease the immediate effects of the reform, which is still uncertain and in the future. This would be the behavior of those who, by throwing a locomotive on a track in the opposite direction to the one of marching, did not worry about their own destiny because the train that will survive in front is late or still in a station still distant. I believe that this is the kind of attitude that justifies the current condition of our country: the specific will not to think I do not say to a next tomorrow, but to a time horizon of ten minutes. We do not have a certain time horizon for the choices that this country must make: we do not have it on energy, neither on work, nor much less on the future of our Constitution. Although, as I know perhaps to a small part of Italian citizens, the reform under discussion touches on different and complex topics, going to profoundly change the structure of the Constitutional Charter, this will probably be remembered as the provision that will change the Senate; and, specifically, that will change the Senate because it is not abolition, as we continue to listen to the information that is transmitted to us by the ordinary media every day. It is an institution, often represented as a useless and pachydermic duplicate of the Chamber of Deputies, almost an obstacle to this new idea of decision-making democracy - it reminds me of another type of democracy, but let's also say "decidealist" - that the Renzi Government pursues without pause for the alleged good of the country. But even before - and I am still referring to the Senate - it is considered as the only subject to which to apply in a valid, practicable and above all painless way the long-awaited cuts to the costs of politics, that in a fairytale world or at a time of poor lucidity have been quantified in 500 million euros. For Italians who are well sober and do not live in the middle land of Tolkeniana's memory, but in an economically miserable country, the actual savings, related in essence to the reduction of the number of senators from 315 to 100, settles permanently around 50 million euros. Probably missed a zero in a hurry to tell a new fairy tale. Another widely advertised motivation is to equip the country with a more streamlined legislative system that finds its point of entanglement in this desperate institution. I'm always talking about the Senate of the Republic. Well, the work carried out by my Commission (I am a member of the Finance Committee) on the subject of tax delegation, but not only, as well as what is taking place in recent days on the delegated decrees deriving from the delegation itself, is evidence in fact that a form of overcoming bicameralism can simply be achieved through efficient coordination of the work of the two chambers and greater commitment to the work of the Commission. Just organize yourself and don't be afraid to work with your head down when necessary, to give life to fast and quality work. To this I add what often happens to me to listen in these classrooms (but not by colleagues in my parliamentary group or colleagues in opposition, but usually by the majority or, indeed, by the government) when, in the face of messy measures or jams that cannot be resolved in our Senate committees or in the House of Parliament, we say the classic phrase: we will remedy the other side. Well, I'd like to take advantage of it to stimulate reflection too. Tomorrow, in fact, there will no longer be another party that will be able to remedy the mistakes made by the monopotentate of the House of Deputies. Therefore, this should perhaps lead to a more accurate reflection on the type of variation we are making to the parliamentary organisation. However, one wonders whether this one-sided cut, and the disproportionate result, does not come close to that of the tailor who, wanting to save on the fabric of the jacket but has already sewed a sleeve, decides to cut an arm to the customer: not being a doctor, it will not be his problem to have to repair the damage done! [[Applause from Senator Blundo.]] In fact, I have tried to imagine the unwritten reasons underlying the choice that is being made, despite the fact that practically every political side has been saying for years that it wants to reduce the number of Members as a whole. It is enough to go back with the chronicles, including the parliamentary ones, to note that the debate has always been about the total numbers of Parliament and not about the amputation of a branch of Parliament. I think I've spotted at least three. One is media. Attacking the Senate and turning it into an adjudication of nominations gives the idea of defeating the monster. A beautiful trophy to bring to the electoral campaign and a beautiful story to tell to the grandchildren on the winter evenings. I suppose I can say: I am the man who has transformed the Senate (repeat, transformed and not abolished) has more effect than to say: I am the man who has halved the parliamentarians and reduced the allowance. It is also a matter of practicality in the story, in short. One motivation is political. In short, changing this institution so drastically has a big counter-indication: drastically decreases the armchairs, and it is known that in traditional politics each armchair carries with it its package of votes. And these votes are on the right today, but tomorrow they can stay on the left. So, either we invent some new Region with its presidents, advisors and so on (but I believe that, in the current state, this would be a solution not digestible by the average Italian inferiture) or we maintain the numerical consistency of a Chamber (and maybe tomorrow we increase it, because we realize that to make higher quality laws we need more parliamentarians in the Chamber), in order to guarantee the most faithful or the most fruitful of votes a place in the front row. We guarantee votes and gratitude: it seems to me a masterful move. Finally, I also see a corporate motivation. From practical experience, and I say this with deep sadness, when a company, even healthy, wants to get rid of a plant that yields little to shareholders (or simply does not want it anymore for some reason hidden by the entrepreneur) but does not want to expose itself to exhausting trade union negotiations, does nothing but slowly empty it of its functions and tasks. At some point it can be said that it is of no use, that it no longer produces and that it must therefore be eliminated. The solution is soft and is made to appear almost inevitable and painless. This is perhaps the fate of our Senate: to be closed with the same reasons that led to its modification. We, on the other hand, in Amendment No 1.73 propose a numerical rebalancing of Members of Parliament, which will lead to a reduction and better functioning of the institution without sacrificing democracy. Perhaps we are just under the illusion that this is an authoritarian drift, but I, frankly, prefer not to risk it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I support and endorse Amendment No 1.75, which amends Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution, on the numerical composition of Montecitorio and the Senate of the Republic. I am pleased to support this amendment, because it provides not only for a reduction in the number of senators (as is already expected in this reform, which even wants to turn the Senate into another), but also for Members: from 630 to 300. We have talked many times about this half, but I think it is very important to consider, for real savings, the reduction of Members, because the number of Members is not even in line with the needs of the House, but perhaps very often it is in line with the needs of the lobbying around the House. So the savings would be if the Senate and the House both worked properly and fully, in a just size regarding the number of their components. I was convinced of this when I was elected and I continue to be convinced of it. The problem is absolutely not to kill bicameralism for the benefit of a Chamber of Regions, where politicians elect politicians. That's not it at all. Having said that, I should like to go further in explaining why I support the amendment. If we assume that in order to be faster, in order to meet the needs and needs of citizens, we need to reduce the costs of politics, this amendment really affects the costs of politics. It therefore proposes a reduction for both rooms, several times flagshipd in these years both from the center-left and from the center-right, but maintaining two principles that are fundamental for a good democracy: the electivity of the members of both rooms (this had been requested by the constituent Fathers) and the representation. Representation and electiveity go hand in hand, ladies and gentlemen, in a good democracy. But these days I constantly ask myself a question, without being able to give me an answer. Why do they only want to reduce the members of the Senate? Why is the Senate identified as the only symbol of an inefficient policy and is it decided instead to leave the number of Members unchanged? Before the vote, I would like to ask you colleagues to answer this question. I would also like to ask you this question, ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that we can have an answer in the course of the debate, in the light of some recent press reports, in which the poor work done by the members of Montecitorio (except ours, who have done a great deal) has been announced. Without the IRPEF decree on 80 euros and Mr Renzi's communications on the European semester, the Chamber of Deputies' activity was almost non-existent: in June only 15 sessions, of which three or four were significant and with great turnout. For the rest, there is nothing more: only secondary measures, such as - for example - a decree to ensure the smooth running of the school year or the bill of ratification on an agreement with the Government of the Republic of South Africa on police cooperation, motions on religious freedom and on the simplification of legislation and administrative. In addition to this, Parliament's convocations to the joint sitting to proceed with the vote for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary: sitting, moreover, colleagues, all of which have been empty, because the quorum has not been reached, and today we try again. It is before everyone's eyes the fact that we are faced with a cast Parliament - which we continue to keep plastered with the claim to treat this constitutional reform in haste and fury - now confined to mere executor and transmission belt of the Government in the era of Mr Renzi. If we examine, in fact, the five months of government of Mr. Renzi, we realize that from February 25, day of confidence granted to the Government of the secretary of the PD, to date, there are 13 decrees with as many votes of confidence. It is a number, moreover, that could increase with the next two decrees in expiration: the one on culture (art bonus) and the one on public administration. These are incontrovertible figures which explain the undemocratic spirit of these reforms and this majority. You consider Parliament and the Senate useless, because you are abducted from decree-law syndrome and you think, mistakenly, that you can resolve and intervene in any kind of sector or matter in this way. In your conviction you also come to tell us that the Italians appreciate this reform and appoggiate it unconditionally. The truth is that three out of four Italians want to maintain an elective Senate. Moreover, only a minority of Italians are aware of the content of the reform: only 3% say they know them in detail, 28% broadly, 33% just heard about it, but they don't know much about it, and 37% ignore the issue. Would this be the data that would confirm the support of Italian citizens for your reform? In order to speed up and reduce the costs of political activity, it is necessary - in your opinion - to amputate democracy and to lay the foundations, with this reform, for its authoritarian evolution. As far as we are concerned, however, in order to reduce the costs of political activity and to speed it up, the number of Members of Parliament must be reduced and, if anything, the tasks in which they are engaged must be diversified. It may be thought that the House deals with some topics and the Senate of others, perhaps more addressed to the interests of the Regions. One can think of a minimum representation of the territory present here, but not of a twist. You can keep Senate and House and get them to work together for constitutional reforms. It is absolutely not fair to intervene on the Constitution by keeping colleagues in the Senate Chamber to work until midnight, including Saturday and Sunday. This had to be done to speed up serious commitments for people who work, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for micro-enterprises, for craftsmen who are the backbone of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to explain the amendment 1,72 by Senator De Petris, which I have signed. The amendment, as my colleagues have already said, concerns the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. We have always wondered why, if you pursue a goal, you never choose the easiest way to reach it, but you do pindaristic turns to mask at the bottom what are other goals. With a view to reducing Parliament's costs, we must always start from the basis that this is an illegitimate Parliament and that, therefore, the less it does, the less damage it causes to this country. We must reduce the costs of a political class that has proved absolutely incapable, since, after 30 years, I have heard many speeches saying that we are not in a hurry today, because this is a reform that you have been trying to bring home for 30 years. After 30 years you realized that either you take her home now, or the Italian people will no longer allow you to put your hand, so imaginatively, at what is our Constitutional Charter. From the point of view of common sense, if you want to save two pennies, you could first follow our example and reduce your salary right now: this would be immediate, without the need to touch the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Otherwise we are going to reduce the Members and, in proportion, the senators, maintaining a perfect bicameralism at the moment. In fact, this is the only form of guarantee, considering that you do not allow us to change the current political class because with Italicum we go again to vote with the blocked lists, without being able to choose the representatives. We'll find the regent on duty - this time Mr. Renzi - the various followers of one or the other current. On the contrary, I would like to point out to the senators still in this Chamber that they are so keen to pursue this line, that those who entered and who at the time belonged to the Bersanian current will not find room in the House. When you go to the election, you'll put yours there. Since you are making all these examples of democracy and why you are carrying on this beautiful reform, even if you are saving the project of your new head today, you will not be rewarded. We are waiting to see if the reward will come to Letta, considering that Mogherini was entrepreneurial and that, therefore, probably, after defenestration from Parliament, will propose it in Europe. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). What does this have to do with reform? TAVERNA (M5S). Do I think there is still freedom of speech, or have you taken that out of the Constitution? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you speak respectfully of people, please. TAVERNA (M5S). I'm respecting people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue your intervention. TAVERNA (M5S). I didn't say that. Europe said that it was workable. Forgive me. If you can't even report the comments made by journalists! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's a question of language. Please continue your speech. AIROLA (M5S). It's a matter of rules, not language. TAVERNA (M5S). Yesterday we saw the attempt to continue to approve this reform as soon as possible. Since 10 o'clock in the evening was not enough to allow democratic discussion of the whole measure, we have increased until 24 o'clock and added Saturdays and Sundays as well. It is not a problem for us; I have almost the feeling, considering the few applauses that your calendar has received from those who proposed it or from the unhappy faces of those who have been approved of what he had proposed, that perhaps there will also be another Conference of the Leaders. From Monday I will have no trouble coming in suit and sneakers; I want to see how many of you will be able to maintain the tour de force you have imposed on this House and that you are imposing on this country exclusively to please the whim of a Premier who must make an arm wrestle with the parliamentarians and that, probably, must bring the first useful measure in Europe to prove that it is not a Fanfulla da Lodi, considering that in five months he has done nothing of what he had said. The first measure - look at it - is precisely the most important measure: constitutional reform. My colleagues tell me that... but all right, I'll spare you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You may proceed, Senator Taverna. TAVERNA (M5S). Yeah, I'll do it. I can also take some small pauses to reflect, considering the importance of the debate. In the ten minutes I am taking a few breaks, I reflect, they weigh the words so as not to be offensive to colleagues who feel offended by a few words, but not by the facts that continue to carry out safely and boldly together with their capobaston. The amendment concerns the reduction of Members of Parliament. Then we'll talk about how you want to elect them and after the immunity you intend to grant to various convicted people you want to bring here to the Senate just to avoid him going to prison. It is a project that we have already explained and that is clear to everyone. Even if someone continues to remain insufficiently informed, also considering that the press has decided that the only thing to be made known are the fantasies of your Premier as well as the proclamations. But we wait patiently. First of all to see this reform shipwrecked, to the full benefit of the Italian people. Then we wait for Renzi in October when we start talking about accounts, we wait to see the European semester finish during which, probably, it will remain good, not to tell the Italians that we are in failure. Finally, we are also waiting for the appointment with the bill of stability, when you will have to remove the skin of the Italians, because in these two years that we have spent together you have done absolutely nothing so that this country can recover and be worthy of being in Europe and the citizens of being in a truly democratic Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I see so many smiling faces, almost annoyed to be in here, as if it were a due act. Stay here, listen, push the button and bring home what they told you to take home. I hope that wasn't the initial project. If so, you could have avoided being elected. Maximum respect for all those Senators of the Democratic Party who had the courage to say theirs. To say that they were not happy, to say that all this project is actually just the will of a Premier and that, probably, not even the Democratic Party is convinced of what this Premier is doing. You are simply afraid that your constituents will realize who you are. Now you mask yourself behind the strong Premier, a Premier that allows you to look good on television. The facts will soon prove that you have neither a strong Premier nor a Democratic Party. I already said that. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). But what does that have to do with reform? TAVERNA (M5S). I never thought I'd be in this Chamber and have to regret not having Berlusconi because Renzi has arrived! Believe me, I never imagined it! I never imagined that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We threw one out... [[Comments by Senators Mirabelli and Ferrara Elena.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u28	We are in the process of explaining the amendments. You should stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u29	TAVERNA (M5S). The government wrote it! This is a measure that the Government has written [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] , is a measure that put us on the table Renzi government. So when I talk about this measure, I also talk about the Premier who forced me to read it, to look at it, to amend it. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] With a lot of greetings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u30	Madam President, allow me a small premise. The measure under consideration is a whim of Premier and Minister Boschi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not see the usefulness of all this haste when a little calm is enough, as the rapporteurs have asked, to discuss Articles 1 and 2 and bring home a reform that, although I do not like it in itself, would be acceptable. Another thing that I do not tolerate at this time is the steady and constant entry of the President of the Republic into Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] I wonder how this person can still afford to talk about what Parliament decides to do, not to mention the pressure it is allowing the President of the Council and all of us to do. I find it embarrassing to read in the newspapers (as I do not trust the statements - I would have liked to hear it in person - because they are often misrepresented, however, with the benefit of the doubt, I read) that constitutional reform is a commitment that the government has begun on a mandate from Parliament. We personally have never given this mandate and, to be honest, the voters in Prime Minister Renzi's primary office have never given it this mandate, because there is no trace of it in his electoral programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, it's a fake: lies in politics are not told. I read the Messenger, and I always quote him with the attitude of before. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Fornaro (PD). What amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are in the process of illustrating the amendments, Senator. AIROLA (M5S). You tell us what to say. That's what you do. Write down the things we have to say! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'd invite you to calm down. AIROLA (M5S). No, you have to shut up. Mr Fornaro (PD). Get the valium! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency decides who is to speak. Senator Marton has the word. [[Lively protests from Senator Santangelo.]] AIROLA (M5S). You write it so we can read it and you're happy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. AIROLA (M5S). You need to shut up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fornaro, please allow Senator Marton to perform his speech, so shut up. MARTON (M5S). I said I'd make a little premise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I'd invite you to stay on the subject. MARTON (M5S). And then I would invite you to call the senators to order who won't allow you to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has been done, so you proceed. MARTON (M5S). The last part of the premise is this. Renzi's anger: new Senate or urns; plus the swamp brakes, the more votes we take. The goal is: I'm doing a reform that pitys her so you flunk her, or at least put the sticks in the wheel, and I'll have the excuse to go to the election, I'll tell the country that you stopped me and you didn't give me the chance to do what I wanted, and I'll take more votes. Nice attitude of constitutional reform, congratulations, good. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of Senator Finocchiaro, who was here with us last night until the end, and to do so I took the trouble this night to read all the acts of Articles 55 and 56, which I will go to explain, of the Constitution. When I imitate Senator Morra, I will say that to deal with the well that I found there, I will say of the other things that I have given you. So, I'm gonna draw your attention. I'd like to read some passages. As a matter of fact, in the proceedings I also found, of course, totally opposite directions to these passages that I extrapolated, so I will read the parts that I agree with. The rapporteur, Mr Conti, stated that opponents of the restrictions on the number of Members were starting from a non-democratic criterion (I read this because the amendment is aimed at reducing Members, and at a small increase in the number of senators, compared to the basic text, by means of a supposed saving and a better functioning of the legislative machinery). I was saying that opponents of the restrictions on the number of Members are starting from a non-democratic criterion, because they reverse the concept of the new state which will be organized with the criterion not so much of representation at the centre as of representation on the periphery. With the new state organization the resolution of many problems will be entrusted to the Regions; if this point of view is not taken into account, we return to the concept of centralized state by entrusting all the tasks of the State to the Government, the House and the Senate. With regard to the issue raised by Mr Fuschini of the prevalence of the first Chamber over the second, he warned that in his view the legislative power must be composed of two bodies with perfect equality, and this is also because the two Chambers must, on certain occasions, merge into a single Assembly. It must therefore be absolutely excluded that the Senate can be subjected to the will of the House and vice versa. There will have to be a continuous exchange of deliberations, opinions and criticisms between the two bodies and therefore there will be no predominance of the House over each other. With regard to the number of members the first Chamber believes that the better it will be as it will be reduced: crowding does not constitute any advantage. He does not share Mr Fuschini's view of the MEP's ancillary functions, which loses sight of the role of the Member himself, the legislative role. The future Member will have to be a legislator, a little detached from the electoral corps, who will have as sponsors Members of the Regional Assemblies for his particular needs; not that the regional Assemblies will replace one of the two branches. The concept of the deputy guardian of the personal interests of the various groups recalls political customs of other times - so let alone! - that it will be good to abandon, if you really want to give a healthier impulse to the political life of the country. It is not in favour of Mr Cappi's proposal, nor of Mr La Rocca's view that we should not abandon the Italian people's habit of having 500 and more Members. The Italian people, unfortunately, have only one habit about Parliament: to talk about it badly, and we with our attitude, with everything we are combining is not that we are attracting sympathy from the Italian people; indeed! In the new Constitution, Parliament's prestige will have to be increased, which will only be achieved one way: to reduce the number of members of the future Chamber. Mr Perassi replied, in full agreement with Mr Conti: He has the impression that at previous meetings the concept of reducing the number of Members from the previous one has largely prevailed for a number of reasons and, first of all, because we will move from a centralized state to a decentralised one, with all the consequences that derive from it, among which, of great importance, the one for which local affairs will no longer be the centre's responsibility. This means that the scope of each Member will no longer be as wide as in the past, in order to reduce the number of members of the first Chamber. Other considerations suggest that the reduction, including the economic reduction mentioned by Mr Nobile, which is also important. Public opinion would be very impressed by a reduction in state bodies, also in relation to the financial situation of the country. As you can see, after several years these words are perfectly cut to the present situation. I did two small calculations, and other people did, too. The amendment aims to reduce the members of the Chamber of Deputies to 300, to reduce the passive electorate to 21 years and, in the fourth paragraph, to replace the word "618" with "288" and therefore to take account of those elected abroad. I would like to re-read how Article 55 of the Constitution has evolved, which, for the fourth time, we are going to amend. He started first with the following wording: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage and directly by a Member of Parliament for 80,000 inhabitants or by a fraction of more than 40,000. All voters who have reached 25 years of age on election day are eligible for Members. Very tight. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should come to the conclusion, Senator Marton. MARTON (M5S). Yeah, I got a minute, I guess. The 1963 amendment recalls: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is six hundred and thirty. All voters who were twenty-five years of age on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The distribution of seats between the districts is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by six hundred and thirty and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains. In 2001 we amended it again as follows: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is six hundred and thirty, twelve of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. All voters who were twenty-five years of age on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The division of seats between the districts, without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by six hundred and eighteen and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, I would ask you to conclude. MARTON (M5S). I was interrupted by the senator for more than a minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time stops when other senators talk. In any case, if you can kindly conclude, you will be given time to do so. MARTON (M5S). I shall conclude and thank you, Madam President. Now with Amendment No 1.74 we are going to amend it in this way: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of Members is three hundred, twelve of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. All voters who were twenty-one years old on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The division of seats between the districts, without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency, is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by two hundred and eighty-eight and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u31	This concludes the examination of all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u34	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. You said that time stops when other senators speak, but in fact I noticed that last night I had ten minutes, while I was speaking there were other senators speaking, so I ask if the Presidency can give me another five minutes. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u35	Your speech ended yesterday. If the senators were talking, he'd be off the wire. In any case, if they speak to the microphone or speak to the President, time is suspended. The debate has ended, we have also given your colleagues a chance to go beyond the time available and to speak even when, at the time of their turn, they were not present in this House, so a certain degree of flexibility has been applied. So let us proceed with the work. Before moving on to the expression of the opinions of the rapporteurs and the Government, I announce that, in relation to the premissive amendments referred to in Article 1, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals relating to Part I of the Constitution, where they do not relate directly to the text approved by the Commission. Therefore, amendments 01.1, 01.2, 01.3, 01.4, 01.5, 01.6, 01.7, 01.8, 01.9, 01.10, 01.16, 01.17 and 01.18 cannot be proposed. In addition, with regard to the amendments referred to in Article 1, the Presidency states that all proposals aimed at changing the name of the Chamber of Deputies, which have been tabled by me, are inadmissible, starting with amendment 1.1626 on page 679 of the dossier. The list of inadmissible proposals for this purpose is already being distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, before we begin with the expression of opinions, there is a very serious matter of order for our work, which concerns the fact that many senators have requested a secret vote on certain amendments. Madam President, since you have declared a series of inadmissible, some of these amendments are almost in the vicinity of the vote, and since yesterday President Grasso asked to have a list of all requests for secret voting because of course he had to take a decision, I would ask the President to tell us what his determinations are regarding the requests for secret voting that we made before we started voting, otherwise there is a risk that the start of voting might preclude decisions on secret voting. Furthermore, Madam President, the first request for a secret vote already concerns amendment 1.29, so, as you can see, after the declaration of inadmissibility of many amendments that are before, we are almost close. I would therefore ask that President Grasso come to the House before he goes on to express his views and tell us exactly what he is saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u39	Senator De Petris, you are quite right, in that the Presidency is considering the requests and the first is on Amendment 1.29. Before we proceed, then, the President will give his opinion on requests for secret voting, at least on those relating to the first block of amendments to Article 1. However, the previous amendments are only deleted and I think that we can proceed in the meantime. We shall then consider whether to suspend or not at the time of the vote. There is no doubt that a statement by the President on requests for secret voting will take place first. For the time being, it is possible to proceed with opinions regardless of the voting procedure, since this is a stage in assessing the substance of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u42	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am referring to the request made by Senator De Petris, because I believe that either we are beginning to have a minimum of organicity in examining the text or we risk, in a situation that is already tense enough, creating further obstacles. It is clear that, even with regard to the type of position that can be taken on this or that amendment, knowing from now on what are the amendments on which the idea of secret voting has been accepted would solve many problems. From this point of view, if we could get the President's communication first, it would be much, much better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u43	Senator Minzolini, I think we can agree to acquire this evaluation of the Presidency before we vote, so that the picture of how to vote is clear. However, this does not prevent us from running out of opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u46	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am always speaking on the order of business, since we are at the beginning of the vote, so that we can proceed as quickly as possible. We pointed out, at the beginning of the work - Senator Crimi spoke on this point - that there are several amendments which have the same number even though they are different proposals, and no changes have been made to date. Personally, I have found about twenty of them, so it would be appropriate to verify exactly the numbering before we proceed to the vote. In some cases, I believe these are just transcription errors (such as amendment 1.42, which is repeated and probably should be instead of 1.142), but they are repugnant that they will create a great deal of confusion during the vote. Furthermore, Madam President, since this is not a simple act, I would propose - and then consider the best way - that we give ourselves five minutes so that we can actually receive the list of inadmissible amendments or that they will be amended or merged. She says they're in distribution, but we have to go get them. At the limit also consider the possibility of granting two minutes of suspension; I say it only as a constructive input. In any case, Mr President, consider in particular the question of the errors in the file.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u47	As far as the list of inadmissible amendments is concerned, which are not many, the assistant will now bring it to him so that his Group will be able to take it seriously without going to get it. With regard to the numbering of amendments, the Offices have pointed out to me that, as there are errors in the press and it is not possible to reprint everything for reasons of time and cost, as soon as we arrive - the Presidency has the record of the amendments where the number needs to be corrected - it will be reported and told the House what the correct numbering is where there is a mistake. It has been noted, noted and will also be reported to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u50	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, all of us in this House are very keen to complete a reform that is useful for the country in a serious and concrete way, but with just reflections and ensuring that everything takes place in the normal way and respecting what is called rules in democracy. Mrs De Petris has made a reflection, also shared by my colleague from Forza Italia Minzolini, arguing that it would be appropriate (it is not that only Mrs De Petris or Mr Minzolini says so) to know before we begin the work, whether we should decide to express only the opinions or whether we should decide to vote on them, what is or what will be the will of the President of the Senate, that is, on what will give Parliament the opportunity to use the secret vote and on which will not. In my opinion, regardless of the positions each of us has in this House, this should be a rule of common sense. Having said that, since I am of the opinion that you, Madam President, love democracy very much and it is for the rules, I believe that you should review your position for a moment and give this House the opportunity to be serene before the proceedings begin. Having said that, in the light of what my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement have said, I would like to say that they certainly do not have the same responsibilities as those of senators present in this House for twenty or twenty-five years, because mistakes made in good faith or those that could be committed by some of the 5 Star Movement's colleagues could be justified; otherwise, the mistake made by someone who has been in Parliament for twenty years becomes unjustifiable. They're two completely different things. The experience is little, the 5 Star Movement tries to make a contribution, and certainly within this contribution some passages are often said in a hasty way and may not be perfectly useful to the reform we are doing; but one thing is to act in good faith and with the little experience they have, another is to support some thesis or assume some attitudes, as they make Members present in this House for twenty years and that should be points of reference for us who are recently in Parliament. I say 'noi' because I am in these classrooms for the second time: the first time I have been a Member and now I am a senator, but I am still young and I look very carefully at those who should be points of reference and instead take positions of great irresponsibility. Having said that, Madam President, in addition to the number of amendments, since we are not imprisoned and the numbers do not correspond to what is defined in jargon (I do not want to use heavy words, so I will try to find something lighter not to mortify myself that I am using them) the first signatory. I would ask you, therefore, to say the name of the first signatory. It would be much more correct, not only for those present in the Chamber, but also for those who are used to saying the number of the amendment, and also for repeating the name of the first signatory. This is in view of the work we have done and also because many amendments are similar and many, due to a printing error, are not reported as they should. I conclude by saying that democracy is important and there are no prices in democracy. I say this with great humility and apologise for what I am saying: sometimes we have to spend a few more euros in order to make this democracy more useful to our country and to the whole world and I believe that certain considerations on the part of someone in this House should not bring them to the attention of our fellow Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u53	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in the wake of the speeches that are already being made, I believe that, even for the proper development of our work and, above all, in order to be able to work properly, it is necessary to have first a list of requests for secret voting and their and eligibility. I would also point out this because there are obvious errors in the distribution documentation. I see that there are even articles that are not included in the file. It is clear that we are not talking about something secondary, but about an operational mode on which the Groups themselves must have clear conscience and understanding. In this regard, of course, we are going back to the Presidency, considering that, before we move on to the first vote, there must be clarification on the subject and we must also give the direction on how we will proceed with the subsequent amendments and articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u56	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask you right now to be able to sign, on behalf of the Senators of the Lega Nord Group, a number of amendments. If you think so, I can tell you now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It can also communicate it in writing, so that there is no error, even for stenographers; otherwise it can advance it by voice and then deliver the written list. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I prefer to announce the number of amendments. The subscription applies to all Senators of the Group. The amendments are as follows: 01.12, 01.13, 01.14, and 01.15, all signed by Senator Minzolini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of the subscription.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u59	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, again on the order of business, I note that Amendment 1.28 is not included in the inadmissible amendments and is not even included in the dossier. What happened? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is on page 15, because they are in order of vote. PUGLIA (M5S). It's on the next page, then? Was it inserted directly there? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has been put to the vote. The numerical order does not always correspond to the voting order, so sometimes the amendments are not in sequence. That's why. PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u60	We shall proceed, therefore, exactly as Senator Candiani said: let us move on to the expression of opinions by the rapporteurs, which have been exhausted and which the Presidency will give details of how to vote. As regards any errors in the press in the files - which we may understand given the number of amendments - they will come forward from time to time so as to make sure that the House is fully aware of the amendments being discussed and voted on. I therefore call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u61	Madam President, I express my views on the amendments to Article 55 of the Constitution and on the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u62	Excuse me, in order to avoid confusion, it is specific that we are dealing with the amendments to Article 1 of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u63	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Madam President, I shall indicate the page of the file, given its size. I begin with amendment 1,1713, first signed by Senator Fedeli, on page 704. I start with the opinions on the amendments that are being discussed and then I refer to all the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you will deal with a group of amendments regardless of the order. Of course, he will explain it to us as soon as possible, so that we can make the House aware of the method you intend to give as a sequence of amendments, otherwise it will be difficult for the senators to orient themselves. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. We propose a rewording of amendment 1,1713 and all the amendments dealing with the same subject (i.e. amendments 1.0.24, 1.0.25 and 1.0.26). The rewording, which incorporates the spirit of all these amendments, and the text of which has already been handed over to the Presidency for distribution, states: In the paragraph "Article 55', after the first paragraph, insert the following: "The laws laying down the procedures for the election of the Chambers promote the balance between women and men in representation." Of course, if this reform is accepted, the rapporteur's opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u64	I would point out that the amendment does not yet have a number because it is a new wording which should absorb, if the authors accept it, the spirit of the other amendments mentioned by the rapporteur. The text of the amendment thus reworded will now be distributed and numbered. [[Comments by Senator Scilipoti.]] Senator Scilipoti, the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, mentioned amendment 1,1713, as well as amendments 1.0.24, 1.0.25 and 1.0.26 that would be absorbed if his proposal for rewording were accepted by the rapporteur. I repeat that amendment 1,1713 is on page 704 of the file, but I would remind you that the rapporteur is indicating the number of amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u65	I would point out that these amendments are all related to Article 55 of the Constitution. Of course, there will be similar calls for the same amendments which have also been tabled to Articles 56 and 57, because the rule applies as a general principle, referring to Parliament and not specifically to the House or the Senate. On page 769 of the rapporteur's amendment 1,985, I voted in favour. With regard to amendment 1,1991 (text 2) published in the annex, tabled by Senator Russo and other senators, we propose a rewording that stops at the word "impact" and expunges the following, i.e. from the word "maintains" to the word "European." Then the new wording would become the following: It participates in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies and assesses their impact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u66	To clarify and confirm to my fellow Members: the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, proposes, with a favourable opinion in the event of acceptance, a rewording of amendment 1,1991 (text 2), which concerns relations with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u67	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Amendment 1.1926, on page 754, signed by my colleague, Mr Azzollini, deserves a little more attention. The rapporteurs spoke against it, even though they accepted one of the issues raised in his speech by President Azzollini, where reference is made to Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012 which refers to the Chambers. Of course, a reconnaissance is required and, in the final rules, a specific one if it refers to the Chamber of Deputies or to the Chambers. The rapporteurs will then table an amendment to this effect. After that, there are two amendments on which there is a different opinion from the rapporteurs. In particular, on Amendment No 1.1979, on page 767 by Senator Candiani, the rapporteur's opinion is in favour and the rapporteur's opinion is against. The same situation with regard to amendment 1.0.22, signed by Mr Candiani. The rapporteur, Mrs Calderoli, is also in favour of this amendment and the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, is against it. Finally, I am against all the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u68	I confirm the opinion of the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u69	I agree with that of the rapporteurs, stating that on amendment 1.1979 the Government's opinion is in line with that of President Finocchiaro, as well as with amendment 1.0.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u70	Before proceeding to the vote, I suspend the sitting for the convening, at the request of the President of the Senate, of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. The sitting will resume at 12.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u73	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, since there have been problems with the audio system and it was giving extremely important communications to everyone, I ask you to be able to repeat them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u74	Before voting, a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which the President immediately convened, will take place. Therefore, the sitting of the Assembly is suspended and will resume at the end of the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In order to facilitate the senators, I gave as an hourly indication that of 12.30, knowing that the resumption of the work could be further postponed if the Junta had not finished its work. With this clarification, I suspend the sitting, which will be resumed in the above terms. (The sitting was suspended at 11.12 a.m. and resumed at 12.30 a.m.) Colleagues, the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is continuing, as was likely to be expected. Then it is necessary to remove the afternoon session. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-288.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.30 a.m.
