ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1213. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general debate began. Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, today you take on the role of plastic surgeons, experts in facial surgery, because you have to rebuild your face. These are not my words, I would like to say this: I am not the one to say it, but you have written it yourself in the introductory report to the decree on the financing of parties, where you clearly say that the aim is not to reduce the costs and costs of politics, that is what the Italians are asking for. No, absolutely not: your goal, declared without modesty, is to restore your dignity. It is a difficult operation, but it is a real reconstruction of the virginity applied to the parties, and I also tell you why. Here's what you write: The basic objective is therefore to strengthen the relationship between parties and the electoral body, through a renewed orientation towards the common good and the guarantee of citizens' participation in political decisions. You have written it, not us, but you go even further, and I read these words to you, which seem to be written by the most aggressive of our activists: to bring the parties back to their raison d'être: a vehicle of articulation, aggregation and representation of interests and not a means of occupation, sometimes irresponsible, of public and private spaces. You wrote it, I would like to say it: it is an admission of guilt, as you self define yourself an irresponsible occupation of spaces. Go and review the report, I add nothing else. But let's go to the merits of this plastic surgery operation, starting with the title: "Abolition of public funding to parties." How is it possible that funding for parties had not already been abolished? Have you not instilled in us for two decades that funding has been abolished and that these are reimbursements for election activities? It is always you who write that it is necessary to give full effect to the indication of the electoral body expressed in the aforementioned referendum - the referendum of '93 - and which can still be traced today by anyone paying attention to the expectations expressed by the public. We note that, twenty-one years after that referendum, if you finally want to respect the people's will. Why now, colleagues? The answer is yours, when you state in the same text that the expectations of the public always frustrated, could determine the exponential growth of demagogic and anti-system drives. "Demagogic and anti-systempulsions": who knows what these words refer to? Do we want to add populist, fascist, potential rape drives? It's wonderful, you're talking about us, about the 5 Star Movement, because it's us you're referring to in that relationship. You are afraid, that is the truth: you are afraid that the advent in Parliament of free citizens who renounce electoral refunds endangers the democratic legitimacy of the parties, so defined, who - you hear, always in the report as they say - are called to revisit their organizational models in order to optimize the expenses of the related apparatuses. Here is the real goal: to revisit, rebuild and redo a facade. But let's get to the point... [[Brusio.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, can you call the House to silence? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please listen to the speech and follow the proceedings with order. Thank you for your cooperation. CRIMI (M5S). This is yet another scam, Mr President: to call voluntary financing what is actually a genuine public funding and continues to be so. Initially it was 91 million euros, of which now 45 are allocated to 2 per thousand, which are defined as voluntary destination: let's remember, however, that these are taxes already paid and due, therefore money no longer in the availability of citizens, but that could be allocated to other services (to school, to businesses, to workers, etc.) and that instead they are set aside to be destined for parties even if not all the 45 million euros should be destined for citizens (which is very likely), you are careful to put them back in the coffers of the State - for charity - but you keep them as a residue, for the following year, of the same fund (pursuant to the last paragraph of Article 12). Basically it is a superbonus, a jackpot, so close to gambling that you decide to apply it also to your financing. On this point I invite you, and also the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, to reflect on your views. But of the remaining part of the 91 million euros - taken away the 45 million euros allocated to the 2 per thousand - about 12 million euros serve to cover the social shock absorbers, that is the fund integration for the workers of the parties that following this reformulation of the financing modalities had to lose the job. For goodness sake: maximum protection for workers - always - but we cannot deny that these same workers have been hired and paid with public funding and nothing forbids us to think that tomorrow these funds will be entirely used, regardless of the real needs, putting into fund integration the workers of the parties, who will always be able to continue to carry out their voluntary activity. On this point, I invite you to be vigilant. Finding money for the integration fund is always difficult; in this case, however, everything went smoothly like oil. Moreover, the remaining part of the 91 million euros - deducted from the 45 million euros and deducted from the 12 million euros for the workers' integration fund - is used for tax deductions: that too is a public financing, not to mention the postal facilities, for which you expect even 9 million euros per year. In my view, all the legislation on the financing of parties should be taken away from this House and from the parties themselves: you cannot be free about how much money you have to collect from the State. It is as if the workers of a company decided in the assembly their salary: perhaps it was possible to apply this scheme to each company. I shall conclude, Mr President: the whole legislature, from financing parties to electoral law, is part of the wake of this titanic party reverging enterprise, in order to create barriers so that a spontaneous movement of citizens is prevented from participating in democratic institutions. You're creating antibodies, the caste is perched in defense of the siege of the citizens. But people have understood, people have opened their eyes and you can no longer deceive them: we win! To see the stars again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u6	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u7	Mr President, in discussing this decree, we must start with two necessary prerequisites: firstly, the revision of public funding to parties has become a top priority because of the economic crisis that has hit deep families and businesses; secondly, the parties, or rather some parties, have shown that they have too much money, at least judging by the Margherita's budgetary surpluses, then used in a way that is not clear from the party administrator. In the face of these scandals, many have called for a law that would solve all the problems. It is an old habit to intervene with measures taken under the emotional wave of popular indignation. Establishing rules on the functioning of free associations between private citizens and possibly allowing the judiciary to interfere with the use of resources could actually create new problems and difficulties. But undoubtedly, the transition from public to private is a step forward in adapting to the referendum against public funding to parties approved by a Bulgarian majority in 1993. However, first of all, there is a problem, namely the compatibility of this decree with the provisions of Article 49 and the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, because it is clear that any choice can be made must deal with the right that every citizen has to be able to associate himself to make freely political. I remember that the Berlusconi Government, in the last parliamentary term, had already started the path to halve public funding, paving the way for private financing. This decree undoubtedly goes further, because it ends up completely abandoning public funding, starting from a fundamental assumption: a demonstration of the ability of the policy to self-form itself, to listen to the voice of the country in a moment of serious crisis and extreme social distress. The free contribution to the parties is undoubtedly a contribution of democracy. This introduces forms of voluntary fiscally facilitated contribution and indirect contribution, based on the free choice of citizens. But the amendment approved in the Commission that completely upsets the bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies, then transformed by the Government into a decree-law, limits the deductions to amounts ranging from 30 to 20,000 euros, excluding deductions for each additional sum. This is a ratio that we do not understand and to which we are totally opposed. We are therefore moving towards greater transparency and this is good, because transparency means strict discipline of private funding to parties, inspired - precisely - by a criterion of maximum clarity that obliges parties to greater responsibility in the management of resources. One point, however, must be clear: there can and must be no interference of external powers in the internal life of the parties, otherwise one of the cornerstones of liberal democracy is killed. Transparency must therefore be associated with the right to confidentiality of political views of parties' funders. This is especially true of the 2 per thousand. Attention: no one thinks that they can give, even in the form of suspicion, a fumus of crime to the financing of the party with their own money. In short, it must be avoided that the judiciary, while having to carry out every investigation, does not consider the funders of the parties as automatically suspects of crime. This is a crucial point: it cannot be ignored, in fact, that there are cases, such as Article 323 (office abuse) and Article 346- bis of the penal code (influence trafficking), which could be used by some unscrupulous prosecutor to consider private financing as the background to a crime. There is also one point that does not convince us at all: I am referring to the ceiling for liberal payments, which has fallen from as much as EUR 300,000 to EUR 100,000. In fact, we do not think it logical to link the abolition of public funding in favour of transparent and traceable private financing with the introduction of a ceiling, a limit, a threshold to the will of citizens to contribute to the political life of their country. In the liberal party idea that we have this roof can not be there and we have the well-founded suspicion that that place is a roof ad personam to penalize a well-identified political force. The abolition of public funding to parties is also and above all the response to the rising tide of anti-politics which, in the last elections, has found strong popular support and significant representation in this Parliament. We are faced with a concentric attack on the party system and parliamentaryism, and we know that anti-parliamentaryism - the attack on Parliament - always leads to negative signs. The difficult economic crisis we are going through has further accentuated this trend, fueling insidious demagogic drifts. History teaches us all that totalitarian regimes - unfortunately - are always born of a wise and repeated cultivation of anti-parliamentaryism. When we are asked for sobriety, transparency and a sense of responsibility in the management of public resources, and at the same time sharing the sacrifices that citizens are called to support, we must respond positively, but we must strongly oppose the populism that describes parties and politics as absolute evil, because the alternative is not anti-political, but anti-democracy. If we have come to this, politics certainly has its faults, but we cannot forget that all countries that are indisputably democratic provide for a form of public funding to political parties. Even in the United States and Great Britain, where there is also a traditional wide-ranging freedom for individuals to finance parties, some form of state support for active politics is envisaged, because parties are evidently considered indispensable instruments for the conduct of a proper and orderly democratic dialectic. A reasoned forecast can be made, given the climate that is breathed in Italy: private individuals will not contribute satisfactorily to the livelihood of the parties, at least until they are glass houses, to whose purpose their legal recognition is necessary, in implementation of the constitutional provision that has been disappeared since 1948, which guarantees transparency and democracy, just as provided for by this decree-law. Nothing new under the sun. There are dozens of legislative proposals in Parliament to define the legal nature of the parties, but nothing has ever been done about them. Mr President, I would like to highlight one last and paradoxical aspect of the political debate over the last few months: the return in style of the party of preferences, which, on the one hand, calls for the reduction of the costs of politics and, on the other hand, encourages it with the return - precisely - to the preferred vote, which was also demonized by a Bulgarian majority, by another referendum. Well, the decree on the financing of parties and the Severino law on the vote of exchange make behavior to hunt for preferences likely to be sanctioned by the judiciary. Preferences cost and do not necessarily reward the best and the most competent. Preferences do not exist in France, Spain, Germany and Great Britain. There is no more hypocrisy than that of those who one day thunder against the thousand Batmans of Italy and, the next, try to defend the teutonic right of citizens to choose the elect, as if this right were guaranteed only through preferences and was therefore denied to the English, French, Spanish and German voters. The truth is that preferences are an all-Italian specialty, which increases the costs of electoral campaigns - and their illicit financing - and which, if reintroduced, would inflate the ranks of the politicians inquisitioned even before they were elected. Let us be serious, then, or rather, consistent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in assessing this measure, which is the first real institutional reform, we should not overlook the fact that, if we have reached this point, it is because public funding of parties has degenerated in an absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable way. Responsibility cannot but be of politics and politics cannot fail to take responsibility for what has been done. Politics must show that it is able to regenerate; it must show that it is able to go beyond its own mistakes and must therefore accept the challenges of this measure. This means that the measure to our examination everything is except demagogy; it is a bet that the Government has called us to make on a new perspective, which certainly gives a different dimension to the function of political parties, but which also offers them the opportunity to reaffirm their role and return to being central in a political system, in which they are no longer central. This is the subject that accompanies, on the other hand, the same issue of institutional reforms. We have come to this point because the political system, over time, has not been able to implement the necessary changes and corrections to a process of degeneration and inefficiency, which was marked and which has become more and more accentuated. I believe that this measure has positive aspects. Meanwhile, even if it is not the law implementing Article 49 of the Constitution, it is still a provision that declines a statute of parties, which are in the sign of Article 49 of the Constitution, that is, they compete with a democratic method to determine national politics. It is also a measure that, like it or not (and certain criticisms have only the sense of spite because others have reached certain results) however clarifies the perspective of the financing of parties in the coming years, that of the only contribution of private individuals that comes from civil society. It is a delicate and complex perspective, which certainly also has in itself the risks that have been feared from many quarters in this House. The bet, however, is essential for the political system, in order to regain its legitimacy and, above all, in order to truly recover a capacity for action, direction and centrality in the political system. Politics must regain authority, autonomy and independence and paradoxically this can only happen in the context of this measure, which tests the political system with respect to the full recovery of its dignity and its ability to relate in a correct and physiological way with society, with lobbying and with the whole system. The measure certainly contains some measures that are also innovative throughout the discipline and on which I believe, however, the debate has not focused, perhaps because it is difficult to recognize that the effort made is true reform. Like all real reform efforts, there is no certainty; certainty will be given by the implementation of the measure. But I believe that in this respect the challenge is really important and only concrete experience will show what are the limits and the advantages of this reform. However, I believe that the latter should be welcomed precisely because it offers the parties the opportunity to close the brackets of an indecent season, to put behind them the many episodes that have delegitimized the political system precisely in terms of the use of public funding funds, thus opening up a completely different perspective. From this point of view, I believe that the ability of the parties themselves, in close relationship with society, to completely overcome the system which, through public funding, which may have its theoretical justifications, had led to the conception of public funding as private money to be used for all purposes and, therefore, as money unduly used. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u10	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u11	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contribution, which has certainly been important and fruitful, on a sensitive issue such as the issue of funding parties and, above all, a different approach to supporting political parties and movements. It is clear that this is a radically different system than in the past, because we are moving from financing which consists of electoral refunds to one which is attributed, so to speak, according to merit, so I consider it natural that the different political orientations should be expressed in a different way, also - why not - within the framework of the same parliamentary group. However, we must also understand that this is a challenge that we must be able to grasp. As I said, we move from electoral refunds to a system that is explicitly based on the consent of the citizens, so it is normal that, in order to achieve this, there must be a transitional phase, a phase that allows us to move from one system to another, and this - in my opinion - must also lead individual political parties and movements to attract the consent of the voters, not only during the phase of electoral competition, but also throughout their activities. I would like to make a comment on the ceiling for liberal payments, because the Commission's position was to standardise the maximum ceiling for both individuals and legal persons at EUR 100 000, which was also done for companies with Amendment 10.4. Instead, it can actually be recognized that there may be a problem, as Senator De Petris points out, about the seats of the parties. In fact, if there is not enough money to continue, as is currently the case, with the maintenance of the seats of the parties, it could in fact be possible to make available to the parties, by the local authorities, rooms free of charge. Another point concerns the trade unions, referred to in Senator D'Alì's speech. In this respect, however, I would point out that this is a foreign matter, so much so that two amendments which have been tabled specifically with regard to trade unions have been declared inadmissible. In order to arrive at the final considerations, I think that the path we have taken, first with the law 6 July 2012, n. 96 and today with the decree-law 28 December 2013, n. 149, is required by all citizens and that with respect to this request we must be able to give a specific answer. But I also wanted to say something about the same parties and the importance they must maintain in our social life. The parties are non-recognized associations (as mentioned and recalled in the same decree), but they belong to a wider category, which is that of social formations, recognized by the same Constitution. They are those formations in which the individual expresses himself and, in a collective context, participates in an activity. I stress this: it is a collegial activity that cannot be sporadic, but must be continuous, respecting the values that are protected by the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u12	As Secretary De Camillis does not intend to reply, I would ask the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u13	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in title and the amendments thereto, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments submitted by the Assembly relating to the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the amendments: 1.0.1, 11.2, 11.10, 11.17, 11.29, 1.0.1, 12.1, 12.2, 12.5, 14.5 (limited to paragraphs 5-a), 14.8, 16.1 (text 2), 16.3, 5.0.1 (text 2), 12.100-A, 16.100 and 16.250. On Amendment 3.0.100, the opinion is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion, in paragraph 5, at the end of the following period: "The provisions of this paragraph shall not entail any new or increased burden on public finances." On Amendment 10.3 the opinion is also conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the replacement of the words: "with the exception of i" by the following: "with the exception of." The opinion is of simple opposition to proposals 11, 4, 11, 100, 11, 6, 11, 7, 11, 8, 11, 19 (text 2) and 12,750. In relation to Amendments 10,27 and 10,29, the opinion is of no objection, noting that, however, the financial coverage of both proposals is ultroneal, as they are part of a measure built up as a ceiling of expenditure. Therefore, the two covers in question should be deleted as part of the further examination of the measure. The opinion is without prejudice to all remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u14	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u15	I am against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u16	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u18	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators Sposetti and Gotor. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.0.1 is impervious. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u19	I call on you to withdraw, otherwise I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u20	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u21	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u22	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u23	Mr President, the measure we are examining concerns not only the financing of parties (Article 3 deals specifically with others), but also the way in which we intend to regulate the internal life of the parties themselves and, more generally, the movements and political forces. The amendments I have tabled, and in particular the amendments to insert Article 3-a after Article 3, concern precisely these aspects: how to make democracy within the political forces effective and well-functioning? The question was also raised by the recent decision of the Council, where it states that for the nominations the blocked lists, where too long as in the case of the rejected electoral law (the so-called Porcellum), prejudice the right of the elector to choose their representatives. As the 5 Star Movement has long denounced, the absence of preference voting, which unites Porcellum with the Italicum model currently under discussion in the House, confers in the hands of party secretaries, and more generally at party leaders, the power to decide in fact who will be elected representatives in Parliament. The choice not only of who, but to what height of the lists, as well as in which college, places, predetermines who will be elected regardless of the will of the electoral citizens. From here come the party alchemies, the exhausting pre-election negotiations on the positions on the list and in the colleges. This aspect of the previous electoral law, rejected by the Council as unconstitutional, has helped to fuel the now very serious disaffection of citizens from politics and the deep distrust that citizens put in the possibility of real renewal and change. It is our duty to live up to the great political and constitutional responsibility to which the Council has referred. This wound must be healed. The purpose of the amendment I tabled is to give back to the citizens the choice of elected representatives, in order to restore both the trust between representatives and representatives, and the right of voters to choose their representatives, as enshrined in the Constitution and reaffirmed by the Council. The amendment therefore acts upstream of the electoral law, as it requires that all political forces wishing to appear in elections should select their candidates after consultation of members and citizens, in accordance with the provisions contained in their statutes. The amendment also regulates how this selection should be carried out, so as to ensure equal opportunities for all candidates. At the same time, the text of the amendment leaves wide freedom to any political force regarding the organizational details of the selections, which I have defined as internal participation. We are therefore discussing a problem which concerns not only Italy, but also Western democracies in general. In the public debate many critical voices have analyzed the growing gap between parties and social realities, to the point that some openly speak of cartel parties, that is, parties like mere electoral cartels that have lost their vocation to representation, or even post-democracy. According to these analyses, the distance between parties and civil society is due to the fact that more and more parties have linked themselves to groups of consolidated interests, thus detaching themselves from the relationship of trust with the electorate in order instead to rely on particularistic bonds of trust and connected to economic interests. Already Berlinguer denounced the urgency of the moral question, which is not separable from the question of representation and real democracy, namely that it is not confined to the mere exercise of the vote, but to wider responsibilities towards the community. Today we have the opportunity to show that we are not in a post-democracy, and that we do not want to conceive parties as mere electoral cartels. Let us demonstrate that politics can regenerate itself and change when it is necessary. We are being asked by the citizens, and they are telling us that there is no more time. As the Spanish indignados and many civic movements in Italy and Europe claim, we need a real democracy now. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u24	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u25	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u26	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.1 and 3.2. I am in favour of Amendments 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 (text 2). Amendments 3.6 and 3.7 are incorporated into Amendment 3.5 (text 2). I am in favour of Amendments 3.8, 3.9 (text 2), 3.10 and 3.11. With regard to Amendment 3.12 I call on the proposers to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendment 3.13 and I am against Amendment 3.14. As regards Amendments Nos 3.15 and 3.16, I would like to call on the proposers to withdraw. Otherwise, I am against them. I am in favour of Amendment 3.17, and I call on the respective proposers to withdraw Amendments 3.18 and 3.19, otherwise the opinion on both is against it. I am against Amendment 3.20, in favour of 3.21 and against 3.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u27	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. On Amendments 3.8 and 3.14 I turn to the House instead.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1, which is identical to Amendment 3.2. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Bruno, identical to amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Nencini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 3.3 by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 3.4 by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.5 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.6 and 3.7 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 3.8 by means of electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.9 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.9 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senators Bisinella and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.14 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Senator Biinella, on Amendment 3.15 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept this? Bisinella (LN-Aut). No, President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Senator Biinella, there is also an invitation to withdraw on Amendment 3.16. Do you accept or insist on the vote? Bisinella (LN-Aut). I insist that it be put to the vote, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Comaroli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission's amendment 3,17 was voted by electronic ballot at the same time. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 3,18.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u31	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, we are prepared to withdraw and transform the amendment into an agenda which emphasises that policy is transformed by engaging the younger generations. That's the point. We think a lot about gender balance and perhaps we are not careful about investing in young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u32	This amendment concerns the presence of at least 10% of young people under the age of 30 in the non-monocratic organs of parties as directorates and assemblies. What is the opinion of the rapporteur and the Government on the change of this amendment to the agenda? DE MONTE, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion. Mr De Camillis, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The government accepts the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u33	I greet the students of the Istituto Superiore (Ezio Vanoni) in Vimercate, in the province of Monza and Brianza, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u34	Amendment 3.19 calls for withdrawal. Senator Crimes, do you accept this invitation? CRIMI (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. On Amendment 3.0.100 there is an opinion of nothing against the 5th Commission subject to a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u37	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 3.0.100 practically provides for the introduction of legislation for the primary elections during each electoral consultation. We know that already several political forces, each in its own way, have adopted a certain form of choice with primary candidates for elections. They did it SEL and PD, we did it and we did the 5 Star Movement, even if in a different way. From these political forces I would expect a vote in favour, since they already apply these criteria. I would be surprised if SEL or PD voted against something that they already apply within them. It would also be a public surprise. Then the Democratic Party should go and explain why it does the primary and then does not want to put them in regulation. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Albano]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u38	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 3.0.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments in consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u39	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 4.1 (text 2), 4.3, 4.4 (text 2) and 4.5 (text 2 corrected) and against Amendment 4.2. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 4,100 (correct text)/100 and 4,100 (correct text). I would like to call on the authors to withdraw amendment 4.8, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendment 4.9. Finally, I am in favour of amendment 4.10 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u40	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1 (text 2). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, on all the amendments tabled in Article 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.2 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 4.3 by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4.4 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 4.4 (text 2) by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4.5 (text 2 corrected). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.5 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.6 and 4.7 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100 (correct text)/100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4,100 (correct text)/100, tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100 (correct text) in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 4,100 (correct text) in the amended text by means of a simultaneous vote by electronic procedure. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.8 and 4.9 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.10 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 5.0.1 (text 2) which is, in our view, particularly important. It concerns the subject, on which we have quite focused today, of transparency, especially of these contributions. This amendment carries out a very simple operation and provides that anyone holding an elective office, at any level (from the municipal council, circumscription, to Parliament), is required to declare, within three months of receipt, any type of contribution received by companies or persons over 5,000 euros. The obligation exists (and this is what I would like to stress) also in the case of contributions (maybe not given directly to the chosen person), paid to foundations or committees, which were in some way established in favour of the political role played, and extends to so-called non-interest-bearing loans. In the Commission - and I am addressing the rapporteur in particular, stressing that this is why the amendment has been reworded - the text had been shelved, as the original wording was intended to give publicity either through the press or via the candidate's website. We have reworded the amendment by indicating the procedure, which is also provided for all contributions, by means of a communication to the President of the House. I would like to stress the importance of this amendment because, as you know, at this time it is intended to be made public with the obligation to communicate to the President of the House only by the parties: in essence, all parties that have received contributions must give notice of it. However, since we know exactly what has happened and - alas - it continues to happen, we consider it absolutely necessary from the point of view of transparency to add also to the obligation for the individual elected to give communication, not only of the direct contribution, but also of that paid through foundations, associations and committees, in addition to the so-called non-interest-bearing loans. As we have seen from the judicial reports, illicit financing has often been hidden behind these latter instruments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u43	Mr President, I have tabled a new wording of amendment 5.2 (which I have just sent to the rapporteur and to the representative of the Government), but which should be moved and examined in Article 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u44	I call on the Offices to take note of the fact that Senator Bruno has reworded Amendment 5.2 and moved it to Article 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u45	Mr President, Amendment 5.7 concerns a subject which, despite the strict discipline of the financing that is being introduced, is totally ignored by the measure under consideration. It covers the whole network of associations, institutions and foundations, known as think tanks, which, at national, regional and local level, increasingly contribute to the development of public policies, in the absence of such activities by the parties, which have gradually disappeared this role. Therefore, these structures play an important and meritorious role in the construction of political formation. However, think tanks (I will then remember some, with their presidents) do not represent only this, because in Italy they are also places where that relational system is realized, which is also one of the constituent elements of the political, economic and financial system of our country. Moreover, given the leadership role of some leaders and leaders of these think tanks, they are also a very important platform for the political activity of individual personalities and political groups that refer to it. The amendment that I propose does not want to limit the activities of these institutions, anything else: instead, it raises a question of transparency, public ethics and linearity of the relations between politics, economy and the system of the public economy, providing that companies and companies which are directly or indirectly involved by the State, the Regions or local authorities cannot finance these institutions. We do not see why public institutions should finance the political activity of individual personalities. The second part of the amendment also provides that managers and managers who are appointed through the influence of state, regional and local politics cannot give a share of their emoluments to such societies, otherwise we know which short circuit is created at national level (and that we know how to create very frequently also at local level): the audience of the appointees is restricted only to those who will be willing to give a part of their salary as a contribution to the institutions owned by those who helped to appoint them. Dear colleagues, we are on the watch for a round of public appointments, and most of the institutions involved, especially those at national level, are funded by ENI, ENEL, Ferrovie dello Stato, Poste and Finmeccanica, as well as by the major dealers such as Autostrade. This system is not good: we are strict in the financing of parties, but then we leave these shadowy areas, which create unvirtuous circuits between politics and the economy. This amendment, therefore - which I commend to colleagues - tends to break this perverse link, supporting the activities of these institutions - which are known to carry out an important work of elaboration, cultural growth and the introduction of ideas into the institutions, but encouraging the subjects of the public economy to have a relationship of autonomy and independence, without creating mechanisms for feeding conditioning powers. For this reason, I recommend the adoption of the amending proposal in question, and I would like, if you do not feel that you can converge on it, to know in a justified way why. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u46	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u47	Mr President, I announce the tabling of an amendment to Article 5 - the text of which will be available shortly - on the indication of the Privacy Supervisor, in order to protect those who pay these sums, with regard to the obligation to publish contributions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you to send the text to the Presidency so that it can also be distributed to the Groups. DE MONTE, rapporteur. I am in favour of Amendments 5.1 (text 2), 5200 and 5.5, while I am against Amendments 5.3, 5.4, 5.6 and 5.8. Amendment 5.2 calls for provision, as well as 5.7, with the possible call for reformulation. On Amendment 5.0.1 (text 2) the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u51	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law. I would also ask you to give the groups a few minutes in time to assess the incoming amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I agree with the request, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Amendment 5.0.1 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, uses the same procedure as Article 5 (3) which does not provide for any kind of cover: let us also look at the technical report. In that paragraph it shall be written: The provisions of the third paragraph of Article 4 of Law No 659, as amended, shall not apply to financing or contributions to political parties entered in the register referred to in Article 4 which do not exceed the amount of EUR 100,000 in the year. In the cases referred to in this paragraph, the legal representatives of the parties benefiting from the disbursements shall transmit to the Presidency of the Chamber of Deputies the list of entities which have provided funding to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to address the President of the Budget Committee: perhaps I am wrong, but I have not seen the financial coverage of the rule contained in this paragraph indicated. In redrafting the amendment, as requested by the Commission, I have used the same procedure already provided for in paragraph 3 as regards parties. This is not a trivial point. Therefore, if the President of the Budget Commission is present in this House, I would like to have a clarification on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must keep to the opinion that has been expressed. If you consider it appropriate, Senator De Petris, with the support of the proposed number of senators, may ask for the amendment to be put to the vote. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I would like to know what the technical report covers in Article 5 (3) because I have done nothing but apply the same procedure in the redrafting of the amendment. Otherwise, I would ask you to return to the original wording of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, the opinion of the Budget Commission on this text needs to be examined. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It could hardly be an opinion of opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I would therefore ask you to return to the original wording of Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u55	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator De Petris: then we will verify the opinion of the Budget Commission on the original wording of amendment 5.0.1. The amendment announced by the rapporteur will also have to be submitted to the opinion of the Budget Commission. I would remind you that Senator Montevecchi requested a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for the Commission's amendment 5.1 (text 2) to be voted by electronic ballot at the same time. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5,200 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Bruno, will be voted on in a different wording as an amendment to Article 15. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.4 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 5.5 by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We now come to the rapporteur's amendment 5,400, of which I read: 'In paragraph 3, after the seventh period insert the following: "The obligations of publication on the websites referred to in the fifth and seventh periods of this paragraph relate only to the data of the subjects who have given their consent, pursuant to Articles 22, paragraph 12, and 23, paragraph 4, of the Code on the protection of personal data, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 196 of 30 June 2003." The rapporteur noted that this is, in fact, an obligation due to the rules of which the Data Protection Authority is the guardian and guarantor. The amendment must be examined by the Budget Commission and I therefore have the provision. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 5.7 calls for provision. I therefore have the provision. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Pending the opinion of the Budget Commission, I have the provision of amendment 5.0.1. Amendment 5.0.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u56	On amendments 6.1 (correct text) and 6.2 (text 2) the opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u57	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1 (correct text). Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.1 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.2 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u59	The opinion was in favour of Amendments 7.1 and 7.100. I call for amendment 7.2 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. On amendments 7.3 (correct text), 7.4 (text 2) and 7.6 the opinion was in favour. Finally, the opinion is opposed to amendment 7.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u61	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1, which is identical to Amendment 7,100. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on Amendment 7.1 and all other amendments to Article 7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by the Commission, which is identical to Amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator De Pin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.3 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 7.3 (correct text) by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7.6 tabled by Senator Pagliari. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established during the examination in the contact person, declares that amendments 8.0.3 and 8.0.4., pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u62	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 8.1, 8.7, 8.0.1 and 8.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u63	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on Amendment 8.1 and all other amendments to Article 8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.1 tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5 and 8.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8.7 tabled by Senator Bruno. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.0.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 8.0.3 and 8.0.4 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u65	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 9.1 and 9.2, while it is in favour of Amendment 9,100. It also opposes Amendments 9.5 and 9.6 and supports Amendment 9.7. Finally, I am against Amendment 9.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u66	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's view on all the amendments, except for Amendment 9.6 on which the Government refers to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.1 tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9.3 and 9.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,100 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.5 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u68	Mr President, I support and endorse Amendments 10,17 and 10,36: the first concerns the maximum amount of donations to political parties by natural persons, while the second is always about donations, but we are talking about legal persons, therefore companies and societies in general. In these months we know well how this argument has been the subject of discussion, of a real negotiation: on the one hand, those who challenged the very usefulness of the maximum ceiling, perhaps treating it as illiberal; on the other, those who demanded it, but without exaggerating, in order to avoid - in their opinion - the boss of political parties. Finally, in the Commission it was argued that it was necessary to lower the ceiling in order to prevent excessive figures from generating further public resentment. We had to be content in short - we do to say - not to take more than 100,000 euros (if you think little like donation 100,000 euros!). Instead, the 5 Star Movement's amendment calls for this limit to be raised to EUR 10,000, a tenth of the 100,000. He doesn't ask to throw sugar to the glued subjects or to harm other political forces: he asks to defend a democratic principle of equality, to support a true change of politics. Politics must return to seeking the involvement of citizens and not just their vote in elections. Every citizen deserves equal listening and must be as democratic as anyone else, regardless of their financial availability and how much money they pay to the parties. We want the participation of citizens without maximum ceilings, but we do not want a rich or economically interested donor to influence a political choice. Ten euros, one hundred euros, one thousand euros are the maximum that we expect - at least we of the 5 Star Movement - from our supporters. Proposing 10,000 euros as a limit for us is a moderate and reasonable choice. In Europe, the limit to private donations to parties is 12,000 euros, even though it is currently being discussed to raise it to 25,000 euros. However, we are much more in line with our choice, saying that the ceiling is EUR 10,000 (it is closer to EUR 12,000 in Europe), as we are in line with our view of the transparency obligations associated with the proposal to increase these limits. How, then, would a ceiling of EUR 100,000 be justified, or even higher (there are those who proposed EUR 300,000, who proposed EUR 500,000), when we are talking about EUR 12,000 in Europe? We can correct this mistake by voting in favour of Amendment 10.17 and consequently also Amendment 10.36. Ten thousand euros is a maximum limit: a higher limit is an obstacle to the participation of all citizens in political life under equal conditions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u69	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u70	I am against Amendments 10.1 and 10.2. I am in favour of Amendment 10.3. I am against Amendments 10.4 and 10.5. I call for the provision of amendment 10.6. I am also opposed to Amendments 10.7 and 10.8, while I am in favour of Amendment 10,200 (text 3), with amendments 10,9 and 10.10. I am against Amendments 10.11, 10.12, 10.13, 10.14 and 10.15. I am in favour of Amendments 10,500 and 10,300. I am against Amendments 10.16, 10.17, 10.18, 10.21, 10.22, 10.23, 10.4, 10.26, 10.27, 10.28, 10.29 and 10.30. I am in favour of Amendment 10.31. On Amendments 10,32, 10,33 and 10,36 I am against this. I am in favour of the identical amendments 10,34 and 10,100. I am against Amendment 10,101. On Amendment 10,102 I propose a rewording replacing the words: "movements, associations or similar functions" with the following: "Parties or political movements" (in this case the opinion is in favour). On Amendments 10.37, 10.38 and 10.39 I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u71	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u72	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1, which is identical to Amendment 10.2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 10. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.3 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 10.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Esposito Giuseppe. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.5, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.6 is set aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u75	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u76	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,200 (text 3). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10,200 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.9 and 10.10. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.11 tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,500 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of amendment 10,500 (correct text), tabled by the Government. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 10.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.12, tabled by Senators Bernini and Bruno, until the words: "Article 10 of this Act" are mentioned. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. The remainder of Amendment 10.12 and Amendments 10.13, 10.14 and 10.15 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,300. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10,300 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. The subsequent amendments to Amendment 10.30, with the exception of Amendments 10.19, 10.20 and 10.25, which have been withdrawn, are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.31 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.32 tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,33 tabled by Senator Bruno. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.36 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,34, which is identical to Amendment 10,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,34 tabled by the Commission, which is identical to Amendment 10,100, tabled by Senator De Pin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,101 tabled by Senator De Pin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. On Amendment 10,102 the rapporteur had invited the presenter to reword, replacing the words "party' or "political movements' with the words "movement', "associations' or similar functions'. Senator De Pin, do you accept the reformulation? DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on President Azzollini to comment on the rewording of Amendment 10,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u77	Mr President, first of all, for the sake of the work, I have no objection to three amendments that have been discussed, namely Amendments 5,400, 11,500 and 15,300. I confirm that there is no objection to amendment 5.0.1 and confirm the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on amendment 5.0.1 (text 2). Amendment 5.0.1 can therefore be voted on. With regard to the new wording of amendment 10,102, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,102 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,102 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Pin. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.37 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.38. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.38 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.39.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u81	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would just like to warn the House of a reading contrary to this amendment. The amendment provides that we have access to the benefits provided by the law those parties fulfilling their statute. The rapporteur takes the opposite view: we would therefore be in a position to allow access to funding even to parties that would counter their status. It is therefore a clearly inadequate choice, and I would like to say more, inappropriate, all the more so if we consider that we must write in a new law a different form of order that supersedes the activity of political parties and movements. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u82	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.39 tabled by Senator Nencini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u83	I address the Assembly's greeting to a representative of the Danish Chamber of Commerce. Welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u84	We shall resume the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the decree-law previously laid down. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,400.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u87	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 5,400 seems to fulfil a duty of respect for privacy, when it is not really the case. At the moment when a liberal dispensation is made to the party one must know before its delivery will be made public in those ways; if one considers that his name and surname should not appear, then one does not make the dispensation. It is therefore not a matter of privacy protection: when you decide to make a liberal release, you automatically have to give consent, because this is provided for in the law, and you do not need to give a further consent, otherwise you totally cancel the effect of the norm. At that point, in fact, any person may not consent to the publication of the data, totally canceling the advertising of the supply provided for by the norm. So, it seems to me to be a misplaced arrangement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Vote for appointment by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u88	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5,400 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur to comment on Amendment 5.0.1, on which the Budget Committee has given an opinion. DE MONTE, rapporteur. Mr President, I would ask that the amendment be put aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm guessing this applies to 5.7. DE MONTE, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.7 therefore remain in place. At this point we proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u89	Mr President, Amendment 11.4 provides for a reinstatement of the deduction to 19% and not 26%, as the Commission has laid down in the text. I would like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to reflect on paragraphs 10 and 11, on which no amendments have been tabled, but these paragraphs of Article 11 provide for the transfer of funds which may not be used for deductions, provided for in EUR 15 million, in Article 12 which governs the voluntary allocation of EUR 2 per thousand. So, basically, the 15 million of the deductions allocated to paragraph 9, added to the 45 million allocated to the 2 per thousand, for a total of 60 million become a fixed fixed roof budget. If the deductions are less than 15 million, what is advanced is not paid to the State, but is set aside and inserted in order to increase the budget of 2 per thousand, a question on which I will speak in order to illustrate the other amendments at the time of the examination of Article 12. I call on the rapporteur to reflect on these two paragraphs and, if necessary, reformulate them in a different way so that the funds are not transferred from Article 11 to Article 12. It is provided for in paragraph 11. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us today has been improved in the Commission. In Article 11, there is still a set of rules which basically tend to block public funding from this year onwards and not gradually over the next three years. With our amendments we would like to stop public funding today and start with 2 per thousand from next year, without carrying out public funding for another three years. Also in Article 11, we have tabled amendment 11.0.4 concerning the issue of the IMU for party buildings and buildings. As a new right-hand centre, we have a lot of support, and we are asking for a strong vote from the whole House on our amendments. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u91	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u92	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11.1, which is in favour of Amendment 11.30. On Amendment 11.2 there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 11.3 and 11.4. On Amendment 11.5 (text 2 corrected)/100, I would have re-evaluated the amount and, therefore, I support both the sub-amendment and the amendment 11.5 (text 2 corrected). I am opposed to Amendments 11,100, 11,6, 11,7, 11,8, 11,10 and 11,12 and to Amendments 11,13, 11,15, 11,16, 11,18, 11,19 (text 2) and 11,20. I am against Amendments 11.21, 11.22 and 11.101. I call for the provision of amendment 11.24. I am in favour of amendment 11,100. I call for amendment 11.28 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. Amendment 11.0.1 is impervious. I am against Amendment 11.0.2. I call for the provision of amendment 11.0.3 (correct text). I am in favour of amendment 11.0.4 (text 2). I would also like to announce the presentation of amendment 11,500, again referred to Article 11, which has already received the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission. This amendment proposes, with regard to paragraph 6 of Article 11, an alignment and therefore the introduction of the deduction for amounts from EUR 30 to EUR 30,000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u93	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u96	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to help us understand what we are doing. In fact, we cannot simply receive favourable and contrary opinions, but we would like to understand what is the ratio of certain amendments to the article, which are also quite extensive. We're deleting three paragraphs here, and we're changing parameters. Surely there is a ratio and reasoning underlying it, but if we were to be made explicit, we would make sure that at least those who follow the work can be aware of what they vote. Already those who do not follow the works are not aware (and perhaps it is good, because otherwise they would vote differently), but at least those who follow them should be put in a position to understand in which direction we are going and what changes are being made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note of your wish, Senator Malan, but we must regulate our work in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u99	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I have listened to the opinions expressed by the rapporteur. Well, if amendment 11:18 were adopted, the following amendment 11:19 (text 2) could not read: After paragraph 4, insert the following text, because paragraph 4 would be deleted. So, in this case, it would be a new paragraph 4?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u100	Senator Di Maggio, this aspect will be examined during the coordination of the text. As you know, there is always a mandate to coordinate the text. Yours is an observation that we will take into account. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on Amendment 11.1 and all other amendments to Article 11. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u103	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the last twenty votes to be repeated, because there is a post whose device is active even in the absence of the senator. I'm referring to the station below Senator Comrade's. I would also like to say that Senators D'Anna and Giovanardi are not responsible for this, because I saw that they did not touch the buttons of the station. Evidently, something must have stuck in the electronic device at the station.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u104	I ask the Senator Secretary to carry out the necessary checks on Senator Cotti's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.30 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.2 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 11.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 11.3, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, up to the words "of 10,000 euros." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 11.3 and amendment 11.4. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.5 (text 2 corrected)/100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.5 (text 2 corrected)/100, tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.5 (correct text 2) in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.5 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 11,100a, 11,6, 11,7, 11,8 and 11.10. Amendments 11.9 (text 2) and 11.11 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator Sposetti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.15 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 11.13, 11.16, 1118 and 11.20 are therefore incorporated. Amendments 11.14 and 11.17 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.19 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.19 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.21 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u107	MORRA (M5S). I would like to point out that Amendment 11.22 limits to a figure consistent with the liberal donations that natural persons can make, including those of legal persons, because otherwise discrimination would be proposed in favour of companies and legal persons. If the country has to be fair, it can't use games to favor someone. Therefore, it is already so much - and we are asking for action to be taken - that the rate of deduction should fall from 26% to 19%, but frankly it seems unacceptable to us that, for legal persons, we should increase from EUR 50 to EUR 100 000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u110	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I understand that some confusion can be made, but I would like to say to Senator Morra that we share his remarks, which, moreover, Mr De Petris has already made just now. In this respect, I would point out that the rapporteur has announced an amendment that resolves the problem, because it has raised the threshold to EUR 30,000 for legal persons, which is the same threshold that has been reached for natural persons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u111	This is the question on which Senator Azzollini has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u114	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, if - as Senator Lo Moro says - the rapporteur's amendment should fix this matter, we must consider the fact that we have not yet voted on it. Therefore, while waiting, I propose that we put aside this amending proposal, and then we will be back. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u115	It seems to me that this is basically the same thing, so we can put it aside and vote on the other amendments. Amendment 11.23 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,101 tabled by Senator Esposito Giuseppe. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. The rapporteur has requested that Amendment 11:24 be put aside. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we can vote on the rapporteur's amendment, which was also announced by Senator Lo Moro, namely 11,500, which concerns the issue of roofs and deductions, which reads as follows: "In paragraph 6, replace the words: "between 50 euros and 100,000 euros" with the following: "between 30 euros and 30,000 euros per year" I'm also saying this for the benefit of Senator Malan's request. I would remind you that on this amendment the Budget Committee has given no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u118	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for explaining this text to my benefit too. However, despite his good will, I have not understood, and so I would like to understand what amendment we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u119	We are about to vote on the rapporteur's amendment 11,500, which was tabled earlier and on which the Budget Committee has expressed no objection. I reread the text: "In paragraph 6, replace the words: "between 50 euros and 100,000 euros" with the following: "between 30 euros and 30,000 euros per year." The amending proposal concerns the theme of roofs, which had previously been raised also in the intervention of Senator Morra. Having slowed down to allow everyone to form an opinion, I now feel that the issue is quite clear. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,500. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,500 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 11.22 - which need to be checked whether or not it has been foreclosed - and 11.24 have been set aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u122	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, reformulated and reformed texts continue to come to me, so I would like to repeat what I have already said on another occasion: we cannot go on in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What article do you refer to? Mr Azzollini (NCD). I am referring to Article 16, but not only that. As you know, the amending proposals are normally referred to me from the first to the last amendment and it is not possible to continue to have rewordings in this House. I said that last time and I repeat it now, kindly: the Presidency, at some point, has to close the deadline for the submission of rewordings, otherwise I will have to ask for the Commission to meet again in a little while. Otherwise I do not have the opportunity to evaluate the rewordings, because some are possible, while others are not. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u123	Senator Azzollini, thank you, but since earlier we talked about amendment 5.2 that Senator Bruno reworded and moved to Article 15, I asked you what article you were referring to. You're right, though. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,100 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Senator De Petris, will you insist on voting on Amendment 11.28? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.28 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.29 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.0.1 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.0.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.0.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.0.3 (correct text), tabled by the Commission, was previously rejected. I should like to ask the rapporteur if she is not here. DE MONTE, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 11.0.3 (correct text) therefore remains put aside, pending the ripening of events. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.0.4 (text 2 corrected).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u126	AUGELLO (NCD). Mr President, I would like to speak only in order to clarify this House. The correct text we are about to vote on is not the one printed on the main file of the amendments, but the one contained in the annex. I say this because the rapporteur herself was not aware of it. Amendment 11.0.4 (text 2 corrected) lacks the words 'union associations'. This is the amendment on the IMU and, for an agreement reached in the Commission, we have removed from the standard the reference to the property owned by the unions, because this is not relevant to the content of the law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Augello, if you'd like to make this clear, as Senator Malan asked, I'm grateful. AUGELLO (NCD). Mr President, I think the matter is very clear. The amendment aims to abolish the rule, which was introduced with the so-called Monti sull'IMU decree, which assimilated party seats to places of worship: that is, for the seats that the parties had purchased, probably through public funding, were not required to pay the IMU. The amendment therefore removes this privilege. The text before us is the one in the annex. The initial intention was to exclude trade unions as well but, not being at the centre of the matter we are dealing with, in the final text all references to them have been removed and only the reference to parties has remained.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u129	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, was Amendment 11.0.2 put to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The amendment was voted and rejected, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Was Amendment 11.0.1 voted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator De Petris, but this is how it feels to play bingo. Amendment 11.0.1 has been declared impervious. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.0.4 (correct text). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 11.0.4 (correct text 2) tabled by Senators Augello and Esposito Giuseppe. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bianconi]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Before moving on to the amendments to Article 12, I would like to point out that Amendments 5.7, first signed by Senator Lanzillotta, 5.0.1, 10.6, 11.22, 11.24 and 11.0.3. I say this so that a little clarity is made on the progress of the work and this remains in the Minutes. President. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u131	Madam President, Amendment 12.2, which is the same as that tabled by Senator Sposetti, proposes that Article 12, which concerns the voluntary destination of 2 per thousand of the income tax of individuals, be deleted completely. Basically, we are bringing direct funding back from the window to the parties, because this might seem like a voluntary contribution, whereas - in fact - such money, if they did not go to the parties, would go to the state coffers. So, it's almost a direct contribution. Moreover, the contribution is also quite uncomfortable: those who earn more and pay more taxes have the opportunity to give more money to the parties; those who, unfortunately, do not have a job or receive a low income instead have much more difficulty giving. Therefore, parties would be more influenced by those who have the opportunity to have more money. For these reasons, Article 12 should be deleted in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u132	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 12.5, and I would ask the rapporteur to pay great attention to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u133	Senator Crimes, I remind you that on Amendment 12.5 there is the contrary opinion of the 5 to the Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u134	CRIMI (M5S). Why? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll assess the motivation. At present, the amendment has the opposite opinion under Article 81 of the CRIMI Constitution (M5S). I propose this again. The amendment concerns the last paragraph of Article 12 on figures not chosen by those who allocate the 2 per thousand to parties. So these are the figures initially allocated by the citizens - and I am also addressing President Azzolini to revise the opinion if necessary - who decide not to give part of that EUR 45 million. According to the provision, what is left over each year remains residual for the following year. So the next year the figure will become 45 million plus x, so 60 million euros. The following year, assuming an equal amount of voluntary payment, it could become 60 plus 15, i.e. 75. This would create a kind of jackpot (that's what we called it). Maybe in 20 years we're with a billion euros set aside as a treasure for someone. This mechanism is not working. In the last subparagraph, all remaining figures from the amount of savings of the initial EUR 91 million are allocated to a special fund. This figure (that is, what citizens decide not to pay to the parties and, therefore, the difference between 2 per thousand and 45 million, the ceiling) goes to a State fund, as expected for all other residues in the last article, where the end that they make the residues is indicated (I don't remember if 16 or 15). I therefore call for the same finalization to be adopted. Article 17, paragraph 1, provides that all that becomes available and that residual from this provision is to be paid into a fund for the depreciation of the State. We propose that the provision refers to all that remains from this law and also to what remains from the 2 per thousand. It seems to me to be a proposal of common sense, otherwise, I repeat, let's create a jackpot. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u137	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Madam President, since I have already spoken with President Gasparri, I repeat my views on the last two reworded amendments: I refer to Amendments Nos 16,100 (text 2) and 16,1 (text 3). The first is confirmed by the opinion already given, which seems to me to be in no way precluded. I also confirm the view of opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution, due to the absence of a technical report, on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) which, moreover, had already been proposed in the Commission by Senator Ichino and on which we had voted against it. Madam President, given these two opinions - both of which have already been evaluated in the Commission - I will no longer deliver opinions under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. In the face of any other rewording - whatever it may be - I will ask you, Madam President, to allow the Commission to review it. I beg your pardon, but the dequalification conditions of our work are becoming frankly unsustainable. [[Applause from Senators Lezzi, Bulgarelli and Bianconi.]] I confirm the views expressed, given that both of us had expressed our views and I repeat the Commission's opinion. For the rest, Madam President, I do not think, under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, that I can speak more, and therefore, if any new problems arise, I would very kindly ask you to allow me to convene the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u138	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to point out to Senator Crimi, in relation to the speech of improcability under Article 81 of the Constitution, that Amendment 12.5 provides for a mechanism somewhat different from that provided for in Article 17, since it allocates resources to small and medium-sized enterprises rather than debt reduction. Either way, we'll get there later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u139	Madam President, we are talking about a state fund, and the fact that it is a guarantee fund does not mean that the resources unfortunately go to small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe they could go straight to business. The resources go, instead, as I said, to a State guarantee fund, which is the equivalent of the Fund for the depreciation of government bonds. If it were possible to introduce an amendment to the Fund for the depreciation of government bonds, this could also be fine, provided that the resources do not go to waste.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u142	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to reply to Mr Crimi if he listens to me. With regard to the deductions granted with regard to donations to the parties, if you were to overtake the roof, you will always go to draw 2 per thousand, so that is a mail already employed. Basically EUR 72 million out of 91 must remain in the party coffers. It's clear, isn't it, Senator Crimes? It was right to clarify this, in case Senator Crimi stopped at the constitutional part alone (but I know that's not the case). [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u143	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u144	Madam President, I am against Amendments 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5 and 12.6. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 12,100 (text 2) and 12,750. I would ask for the provision of amendment 12,100a (text 2), unless there is already an opinion from the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u145	It seems to me that the opinion was given earlier by President Azzollini. In any case, it was already covered by the previous opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u146	DE MONTE, rapporteur. I therefore support Amendment 12,100a (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u147	Madam President, I am against Amendments 12.1, 12.2, 12.5 and 12.6, while the Government refers to Amendments 12, 3, 12, 4 and 12, 100a (text 2). Finally, the opinion supports Amendments Nos 12,100 (text 2) and 12,750.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u148	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1, which is identical to Amendment 12.2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on this and on all other amendments to Article 12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator Sposetti, identical to amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Augello and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u151	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I made a mistake first. If Amendment 12,100 (text 2) is adopted, the estimated savings of EUR 19 million for the state's coffers will fall by another EUR 9 million. Therefore, compared with the 91 million euros before, they will now receive 81 million euros, because in this case there are also postal charges for pre-election propaganda. So, eventually, Senator Crimes, the jackpot still increases. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u152	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,100 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Ironic applause from Senators Lezzi and Bottici.]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.750. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,750 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 12.4 tabled by Senators Esposito Giuseppe and Augello. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). CASINI (PI). What were the opinions? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteur opposed the opinion and the Government returned to the Assembly. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Casini asked me to repeat the opinions, which he had not grasped. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 12.5 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100a (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u155	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I apologise for interrupting the only purpose of the House, which is to vote without understanding what, I would like to ask what the ratio...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u156	Excuse me, Senator, this may be your job, but I don't think all colleagues understand what they're voting on. I think they're very careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u157	That's what I see. I would like to know, if anyone is interested in answering, what is the point that this particular tariff can only be used in April. Is it an astrological fact or is it supposed that there are always elections in April, which is not true? I find it very irrational. Then, in this case, I would propose the split vote: the first period, where there are no astrological issues, and the second period, with astrological issues. [[Comments of Senators Lezzi and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u158	Amendment 12,100a, in text 2, has been reworded to mean that the tariff can only be used in one month of the year. Otherwise we would need a new opinion from the Budget Commission, because the preferential tariff would operate throughout the period. If there is a request for a split vote, I believe that the Budget Committee should express itself. President, not in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u161	FINOCCHIAR (PD). I would like to reply to Senator Malan who rightly wondered why this could happen in April: exclusively because it is the month before the tax return and, consequently, it is believed that these expenses support the sending of material to inform voters about how they can allocate 2 per thousand to political parties. That's why. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u162	The question has been answered. There is another part examined with reference to the calendar months.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u165	BIGNAMI (M5S). I'd just like to tell Senator Malan that he's not the only one who doesn't understand, because we don't understand either.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u168	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, although I am not an expert on this matter, it appears to me that the presentation of the tax return is in October and not in May. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u169	This is a clarification that has already been made in the Commission, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u170	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100a (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u173	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we are talking about expenditure - as Senator Finocchiaro rightly says - in order to communicate to citizens their right to allocate 2 per thousand to political parties: we are talking about an appropriation of EUR 9 million (am I wrong?) compared with EUR 45 million allocated to EUR 2 per thousand? Do we allocate one fifth of the resources to communicate that you can allocate 45 million of them? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's something wrong with me. Therefore, I personally urge you not to vote on this amendment and, if necessary, to reformulate it later, on other occasions, perhaps trying to measure it in a more appropriate way. [[Applause from Senator Marton]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u174	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 12,100a (text 2), tabled by Senator Pagliari. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.1, which is intended to be explained and on which I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion. Mr De Camillis, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u177	Montevecchi (M5S). What amendment are we voting on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 13.0.1, aimed at adding an additional article after Article 13, on page 70 of the dossier. Montevecchi (M5S). Have we changed the article? We were voting on 12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have finished voting on the amendments to Article 12. Montevecchi (M5S). What about the opinions of the rapporteur and the government? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur's opinion, being an amendment from the Commission, is implicitly in favour. The Government's opinion was requested. Montevecchi (M5S). It is not always said that the rapporteur would give an opinion in favour of an amendment from the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Commission is generally the rapporteur. However, I would ask the rapporteur to explain her opinion on Amendment 13.0.1 (text 2), which was implicitly in favour. DE MONTE, rapporteur. I am in favour of amendment 13.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u178	We shall now proceed to the vote. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 13.0.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u179	I withdraw Amendment 14.1 to my signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u180	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 14.2. The debate is already complicated, the amendment is quite heavy and withdrawal. We'll be back in one of the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u181	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u182	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u183	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against, Amendments 14.3 and 14.4. On Amendment 14.5 on which the 5th Commission has delivered an opinion against the second paragraph, I call for a withdrawal, otherwise I am against it. I am against Amendment No 14.7 and I am in favour of Amendments Nos 14.0.1. and 14.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u184	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u185	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.3. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 14.3 tabled by Senators Esposito Giuseppe and Augello. I declare the vote open. Excuse me, by mistake we have implicitly gained support for the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot. We cancel the vote and verify the support. I therefore invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 14.3 tabled by Senators Esposito Giuseppe and Augello. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u188	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, what we are doing is the conversion of a government decree-law. The government writes that: "the overcoming of the current system of electoral refunds (...) naturally intends to implement the indication of the electoral body expressed in the referendum of 1993 and still traceable today by anyone paying attention to the expectations expressed by the public. Imagine asking the public, with a survey: But when the Court of Auditors states that only a quarter of the electoral refunds have actually been reported (i.e. the parties have pocketed four times as much as they spent), what do you think should be done? Do we want them to return what they have received wrongfully? I think the respondents would say, "Yes." If we asked: "Do you want them, if they do not return, to stop having improperly?"I think they would reply: "Yes." If the people's will and the outcome of the referendum are to be implemented, then we should reduce the transitional phase as much as possible for duration and amounts. This amendment simply asks that, if the parties have spent a quarter of what they have received so far, next year those who have already acquired this right will have 25% of what is expected. After this year, the figure will be zeroed, because in the meantime the compensation will take over through indirect financing. We are asking for something that is not a guillotine, which we have suffered: it is simply the application of what the Government says it wants to do. This 25 percent is what has been spent so far, and 25 percent must be enough. I hope you do not wish to offend the logic and sensitivity of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u191	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to speak on this point by reminding Senator Endrizzi that memory must not be made any other way and that we must not remember the will of the people only when it is appropriate. The popular vote has also been on the civil liability of judges, yet in the Committee on Justice the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement do not want to know how to give voice to the popular will. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u192	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u193	I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 14.5 cannot be applied until the second paragraph. Senator Augello, do you insist that it be voted? AUGELLO (NCD). No, Madam President. I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 14.8 and 14.7 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 14.0.1, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 14.0.2 and 14.0.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.0.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 14.0.4 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 140.5 has been withdrawn. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u194	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 15.300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u195	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u196	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.300. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 15,300 tabled by Senator Bruno. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a moment of attention not only on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) but on the whole system of Article 16. Let us begin by taking note of one fact: this article, extending to parties the regime of the Extraordinary Integration Fund, has the effect of imposing an increase in the cost of labour for all parties by 3.2 percent. If the law were applied rigorously in our country this contribution would not have any counterpart because the extraordinary integration fund can be provided only for corporate restructuring (but frankly we do not see what a material restructuring of the productive structures of a party can be) or for serious sector employment crisis, with significant social effects. Now, given the size of the population concerned, to argue that the downsizing or closure of a political party constitutes employment crisis comparable to that of an industrial sector is really out of place. What is the real scope of this rule that is being introduced? The truth is that you want to allow a completely inappropriate use of the integration fund. It is the use we make of it every day, unfortunately; but it is abuse. It consists of putting the unemployed in the freezer by fictitiously denying their state of unemployment, leaving them there for some time, extending from year to year the integration fund, possibly up to retirement. This abuse does not make any sense, either economically or socially. The integration fund must be used to keep the worker tied to the company of origin when there is a reasonable prospect of the resumption of work in that company; but if a party contracts or closes, if a party or a parliamentary group is not rewarded by the vote of the voters and needs to be reduced, what is the perspective? Resumption of employment in five years' time at the next parliamentary term? And what kind of interministerial committee will be able to assess the reasonable prospect of that party resuming in the near future? It is obviously a fiction; and it does not even make the interest of the workers, which is certainly to be supported in income, but also to be re-entered into the productive fabric. This must be supported by the income of an unemployed person. For this reason, I would ask the House to give careful consideration to Amendment No 16.1 (text 3) which seeks to bring the intervention back on the right track, i.e. to activate not the wrong instrument in this case, i.e. the integration fund, or rather the abuse of it, but the correct instrument, which is unemployment insurance. If we want to strengthen it, if we want to lengthen the period of enjoyment, but let us say bread to bread and wine to wine: let us call what is unemployment by its name and not by a different name, such as that of suspending a relationship that is not known when it should resume. I have seen our amendment rejected by the Budget Committee for alleged lack of financial cover. However, look at the fact that it costs a lot less to activate unemployment insurance with the necessary active policy measures, rather than the redundancy fund to lose. I therefore consider the rejection of the budget by the Commission to be wrong, and I call for the support provided for in the Rules of Procedure so that the House can vote on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) despite this rejection by the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u198	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u199	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u200	Mr President, I would ask for the provision of amendments to Article 16 for further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u201	We shall therefore proceed to the examination of the amendment seeking to insert an additional article after Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u202	I am in favour of Amendment No 17,0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u203	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u204	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,0.100. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 17,0.100 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u205	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u206	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u207	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1 (text 3). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 18.1 (text 3) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We now have to decide how to proceed with the proposed amendments 5.7, 5.0.1, 10.6, 11.22, 11.24, 11.0.3 and all the amendments referred to in Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u210	DE MONTE, rapporteur. Madam President, given the complexity of the issues still to be resolved and the need for some rewordings, including the correct comment of the President of the Budget Commission, that it is necessary to forward the amendments in time for an assessment by the Commission itself, I call for a suspension and a postponement to tomorrow's sitting for the adoption of the proposed amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note and, if there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u213	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we agree with the provision, not least because it becomes difficult to recall all the different proposals put forward. On this occasion I would like to point out to you that, precisely because of the confusion caused by the various provisions, the Group corrects the vote on Amendment No 15,300 in favour, because we thought it would replace another amendment set aside in Article 5: we thought that the proposed amendment to which it referred was not the 5.2 (text 2) of Senator Bruno in Article 5, but a previous one. That is why we voted against Amendment No 15,300 and wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u214	The Presidency takes note of this. I note that, as a result of the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment 11,500, Amendment 11.22, on which there had been a request for provision, is precluded. The rapporteur can record that at least amendment 11.22 is foreclosed and therefore does not require further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u217	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I rise on the amendments to Article 16, in particular on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) by Senator Ichino and others. I would like to suggest to the rapporteur that she recovers any resources that are needed to cover her efforts to reduce that share of EUR 9 million allocated for communication costs, compared with the sum of EUR 7.75 million, which relates to EUR 2 per thousand paid for 2014. It's really an abnormal thing. The appropriation for 2 per thousand for 2014 amounts to 7.75 million, but 9 million is allocated to communicate it. In short, we spend more on communicating this appropriation than on actually paying it to the parties. I wonder what's behind it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u218	This aspect had already been highlighted. The continuation of the discussion of the draft law in title is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u219	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-188.ana.u220	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.56 a.m.
