ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 24 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u4	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that an hour ago a very serious event happened in Padua: a 32-year-old boy was beaten in front of the headquarters of the 30-year-old Lega Nord in the social centre "Pedro" (Pedro) who cowardly mistreated him. I denounce this very serious fact that it absolutely must not go unpunished. In Padua too often things like this happen, and we have to say enough. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and GAL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u7	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] This year is the centenary of the birth of Mario Luzi, one of the most prominent figures of culture, poetry and literature of the twentieth century. His appointment as a senator for life, on October 14, 2004, represents the synthesis of a long cultural and civil journey: to have illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the literary and artistic field. To the President of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, who had personally given him the news of the appointment, Mario Luzi replied so moved: "Thank you, President Ciampi, it is just an unexpected gift for my 90 years." Born on 20 October 1914 in Castello, near Florence, Mario Luzi has crossed and experienced the most intense and dramatic moments in the history of Italy, from fascism to war, from economic boom to terrorism. In his poetry the drives, tensions and aspirations of Italy constituted a sort of continuous melody, background and perspective of always fresh, authentic, lived words. From a young age, in the 1930s, Luzi took part in the intense cultural life of Florence, bonding with the intellectuals who attended the famous Caffè "Giubbe Rosse," from Betocchi to Bo, from Pratolini to Bilenchi. From 1938 he taught in middle schools and from 1955 at the universities of Florence and Urbino. Throughout his life he continued his work as a teacher and educator, and his work was until the end a pedagogy of the testimony. The first moment of Mario Luzi's poetry was more properly hermetic: in 1935 his first collection, "La Boat" (The Boat), followed by "Avvento nocturnale" (Night Advent), an exemplary text of what the critics will call "Florentine Hermetism"). Rich the next production, which marks the stages and developments of a poetic itinerary among the most articulated of the Italian twentieth century, passing through the phase of experience, existence, final synthesis between man, his consciousness and absolute. His whole life and civic commitment were a continuous dialogue, as suspended between poetry, philosophical reflection and human experience. The dominant theme of Mario Luzi's poetry is the opposition, full of anguish, between time-eternity and individual-cosm. His poetry is a sort of dramatic conflict between a "Io" that aspires to the sublime, and everyday reality. The discourse that is born of it is made inner dialogue - with himself - and external - with others. Dialogue that transforms the interiority into a fund of resonance of individual stories and collective history, voice of the conscience of individuals and of the civilization of an entire people. The syntax, initially forced into closed modules, gradually approaches the speech until it reaches, from the "Honor of the Truth" onwards, a singular balance of recitation and singing. And this was the destiny of his poetry: to open the fact of reality, in its essentiality, to the ideal and eternal strength of artistic intuition. The poetic production is accompanied by theatre and literary criticism of Italian and foreign authors. For Luzi author of theatrical texts there is no division between prose and poetry: everything is enchanted and disenchanted, art and experience, reality and ideal. But besides poet and critic, Luzi was also a protagonist of his time, both for the activity of high school teacher and university professor, as a man always available to dialogue and dialectical confrontation, from the interview to the newspaper article, to the public debate. For Mario Luzi teaching did not represent an exercise in teaching, it did not consist in the mere transmission of notions from teacher to learner. Teaching meant witnessing and, thanks to his testimony, the young generations could discover knowledge without suffering it, making it their own. Knowledge was for him the exercise of freedom. His trips to Italy and the world were important, including those in Russia in 1966 and those in India in 1968. He collaborated with many newspapers of his time, with the "Corriere della Sera" from 1967 to 1974 and with "Il Giornale" by his friend Indro Montanelli, until the early nineties. Since 1991, since the first Gulf War, he has clearly expressed his disagreement with the return to armed practice by the great powers. His conviction was translated into deep-rooted and consistent civil commitment. Appointed senator for life, Luzi made his entry to Palazzo Madama on November 9, 2004, where he returned again on December 15 and February 10 following. He understood that appointment with renewed responsibility and commitment. The last public intervention, a few days before his death on 28 February 2005, was for the release of journalist Giuliana Sgrena kidnapped in Iraq. At the Senate session on 1 March 2005, the President of the Senate, in giving the Assembly the sad news of his death, intended to pay tribute to him by publishing in the report the text of a speech he wished to make in the Chamber. Today I would like to recall a passage from his reflections: Italy is a proud country, like the cathedrals. It is particularly so, it does not come from a de facto power like other European nations, it comes from distant shimmering movements up to the volcanicity of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Already in 1958, in a study dedicated to him, Andrea Zanzotto defined it as: "No one like Luzi has expressed the deepest sense of these years of disappointed hopes, always pushed towards a fantastic future, in a climate of "immutability of change" historical-political. His warning remains for us of unchanged relevance: to recover the sense of history means, first of all, to build a perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of Mario Luzi, I call on the House to respect one minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause]] We greet Mario Luzi's son, who followed with us the memorial and who is present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u10	Mr Zavoli (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the initiative to remain, more than legitimately, able to listen to the few things that I can add to those so exemplary and exhaustive - as we say - of President Grasso had already been affirmed, I would have asked myself to listen to these few additions, which go into personal memories. I imagined that they would be of that breadth, of that depth and also with that feeling of relaunching a moral, civil, political attitude that would make a poet even a witness of his own time. I would have been the first to ask President Grasso's permission to authorize the hemicycle to listen, as you do in the most normal cases that you can give, the intervention of a colleague of yours. Mario Luzi was born in 1914 in Florence (I will be forced to repeat myself), where, albeit with long intervals, he is preferably lived. He died - as President Grasso reminded us - on February 28, 2005 and a series of circumstances (certainly not imputable to us) forced us to postpone, with a bit of suffering, our encounter with the spirit of Mario Luzi, who remained to mark so much of the so-called Italian question, for what concerns the relationship between culture and history, between the soul and politics, so much so as to induce us to believe that today was really the most suitable day, not having a particularly expensive calendar to observe. I am glad, therefore, that I can try to add a few small figures. From the time of "Il Frontespizio", of "Letteratura", of "Campo di Marte", leading Florentine magazines of the 1930s, Luzi had contributed to the richness of Italian culture of more than half a century. Since the years of the university he had been associated with the group of those who would become the protagonists of that intense creative period, of rethinking and defense with respect to the prevailing rhetoric of the regime at that time, which said and will preserve the adjective "hermetic." He then pursued his process of clarification culminating in the reception, increasingly wider in Italy and abroad, paid to his restless, dramatic questions, together, of the real and of the deep. Voice among the highest of the poetry of the twentieth century, he was a severe, authoritative interpreter of what history and life offered to the concited consciousness of that epoch, full of alarming omens. I had the opportunity, because of the familiarity that soon passed between us (immersively on my part), to attend Luzi and to understand how he was an extraordinary man, who could also conceive the idea, although not personally encouraging it, because he was a man of great discretion, to be part of a so-called political world day, in which to bring some of his ideas. On the contrary, I remember learning from him a sentence, put in a bit more journalistic terms and thus losing much of his halo: once he had to tell me, talking about politics (and the thing surprised me greatly and moreover it was curious that I was more willing to a critical judgment), that there is never so much need for politics as when politics authorizes us to turn our backs in some way. It impressed me a lot, but it didn't surprise me, because in all the poetics of Luzi - if we leave a little'separated in this short review of his story as a poet - civil poetry had a great influence. It is the least talked about; there is no talk of it - and it is very serious - in schools. I will refer in part to this issue. This almost bibliographical premise is without a given (it would seem a form of gossip, but it is at such a level that I feel I can reiterate the indignation that has crossed our country): the absence of the Nobel Prize. It is a case not only Italian, invested by the same fate touched for example at Borges, to whose exclusion were applied considerations judged, albeit authoritatively, presumptuous. Since, in the end, it is a civil and moral poetic height that here, today, asks us to respect a general validation of it, I believed that I had to take account of this commitment, focusing on what Luzi himself explained about himself, referring to what who knows how many of you, ladies and gentlemen, would ask him to gain a more direct and shared knowledge of his poetic, cultural, human, but also political, social and historical personality. This is what I have done, at different times, for a need of objectivity since he himself judged that he could speak to me in the name of a simple, sweet friendship. And here is the first topic of the long question. I entertained him, first of all, on his primary theme: the world as a place also of the soul, the fragments of our existence, reality and imagination with their arduous comparisons, all recalled, strengthened, consecrated in the natural and spiritual cycle that moves from creation, if it is true that God, as one of his verses says, is disseminated and scattered in the multitude of the world. Yet the world is also littered with violence, injustice and denial. Does the mystery have to explain the contradiction? Does history take all reality for itself and legitimately decide everything, sometimes even God's? The persistence of evil - was Luzi's response - is the first scandal of the man of faith. But on this theme all the highest peaks of religious and secular thought have hit their heads, harassed by their ethics. Although it is sensible to argue that human consciousness has gone away and refined - and for this reason the awareness of the negative has become more sensitive - evil not only persists, but, in a certain sense, prolifies and multiplies (...). Are these two incommunicating realities? Or is it the proof to which the free, original human will is subjected, that is now victorious now, too often, destined for defeat? The question was long, complex, even a little twisted, perhaps; the answer was exemplary for dryness and simplicity. Science and technology: the same progress they make generates the arguments of their dispute. Will it ever be possible to say, "Look, now there is what is needed, let's stop"? The answer was: "It will be necessary to know what importance the human presence can take in the disordered framework of modern consciousness or if a brutal determinism will prevail and will impose that everything possible for this is to be done, regardless of a real human utility." This which we live, she wrote - I reminded him - is a period of triumphal scientism that makes how over time and why prevail. If so, in what does one grow and fall back? He said to me: That period, which lasted for many decades, is, to be honest, declining. Scientism is no longer so triumphant. Many disenchantments and too many doubts have cracked it. The awareness has grown that not knowing increases in geometric proportion with knowledge and vice versa. In any case, science cannot leave it to the devil. It is not with mistrust and suspicion that the dissidio rises again in times not open, not fairly inspired; and it is not with the tacit prejudice that the impropriety produced between need and real expectation, on the one hand, and a neutral availability, on the other. I believe that this drama has perpetuated itself precisely for having withdrawn the spirit from the ground of confrontation, leaving wide room for its denial, until fanaticism. Precisely of measures and equality we were too poor and not only in our country. "The terribleism of the futurelogists" - I reminded him - also puts poetry to death. Do you think there can be any good reasoning to refute their prophecies? And Luzi: "Perhaps the tradition of "genus" and rhetorical art, which have accompanied poetry to us, will run dangers of extinction, but as a vital instance, which ascends to form and seeks its reintegration into the universal order, will not end. "Why have you lost much energy, despite this, civil poetry? Maybe it's another name today? He has taken on a different language and is perhaps where we don't see it? Luzi: "Just like this: poetry is everywhere there is poetry and it is humiliating to want to make a genre, a "speciality." "Today the relationship between poetry and reality is more ephemeral; " - I insisted - "we would not be what we are if there had not been Leopards, even if the majority of us ignore it. The reality, in my view, is not a given, but a point of arrival, always so temporary that it must be sought and defined day by day. To this definition calls us and pushes us precisely the poetry, which is the richest, the safest "author" of reality. How do you judge the reality that has come about by forming itself before our eyes, not only in the economic and political field, but also in social, cultural and moral? Since pure indignation is not enough, in what feelings and beliefs will it be necessary to trust, so as not to feel secularly and spiritually outside, then defeated, of this reality? To be clear, how can a world that corresponds to us more than today be restored? "I begin to think," Luzi said, "that the clear sense of reality we can have only by having a good internal parameter, whether it be a legacy, or a voluntary moral construction: not having it, in general, neither of one species, we slip and end up in those quicksands where the distinctions are not clear, but everything is roughly the same as everything and therefore reality and reality are confused. So, even if we have not clearly transgressed, less stolen or murdered, we have all more or less consciously adapted ourselves to live in lawlessness, widespread lawlessness: laxity, corruption, blackmail, scandals and compromises, favored and tolerated in the regularity of procedures, from 'escamotage to fraud; and all this, not uncommonly, with various forms of impunity. I was indignant,' said Luzi, "I also raised my voice so that the protest might reach those who, with the necessary means, could oppose the dirty market in which the most jealous possessions of our common history are thrown, the sufferings of the fathers and those, until yesterday unpublished, of the children. The instrument has still sprung up, and therefore ineffective; it is therefore necessary to trust in patience, in the work of sewing and sewers of the masons, of the educators, of the sincere catechists, excluding the rectors and the tribals. It is necessary to rediscover the ethical origin of a disease that has become social, in which only the criteria of utilitarianism, pragmatism and easyness prevail; and it is also necessary to rediscover the foundations from scratch, now that more and more buildings of paper-mâché collapse. The school is emblematic, while the role of those who, in this country, preserve, even in the school, humility and courage is difficult. Yet, not by chance, and not only to get rid of a movement of spirit, Ennio Flaiano said: "Everything I don't know I learned in school" It's like listening to him again, while he was talking to us about ten years ago from his life as a senator. With these words, which seem to be uttered today, one of the most reasonable and abrasive voices of the time we are still living extinguished: not lyrical drifts, suspended between earth and heaven, but history as a place also of the soul; and here I am sure it would immediately add: "Because history must not be what everything devours by closing every discourse, because otherwise we would be faced with another divinity, which would provoke more horror than, in its poor and tragic incongruity, deserves human existence..." Mario Luzi participated in this great dispute, which is also immense poetically and politically, among the darkness of an hermetic symbolism that exalted the pure value of the word, the evocative one - as recalled with extraordinary punctuality by the President Grasso - of Ungaretti, Quasimodo, Gatto, Bigongiari and, in the critical field, Carlo Bo. Then the dramatic transplants, here and there even epic, of the civil poetry of our days, that is, of our history, even without denying, mentally and inwardly, the orphic halo - that is, timeless - of imagination. This helped us to understand that the man and the poet had known a continuous agony - in the etymological sense of struggle - that which Geno Pampaloni, in Palazzo Vecchio, the day on which we gave Luzi the prestigious "Premio Campana", called a painful and triumphal war, which has in itself the suffering and hope, the solitude and communion, the despair and the need not to die altogether between the shadows of life and history. Here, finally, it is Luzi who takes up the word: "That everything may not end up belonging to the hidden truths, as happens with man, in the folds, often treacherous and undivided, of our failures and of our history." Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI, GAL, SCPI and Misto-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u13	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we commemorate the figure of the poet Senator Mario Luzi, nine years after his death on 28 February 2005. Luzi was born near Florence in 1914 and, in 1932, enrolled in the faculty of letters at the University of Florence, where he became friends with Carlo Bo and other young people, who met at the Gran Caffè San Marco and formed the original literary nucleus of the magazine "Il Frontespizio" (The Frontespizio), voice of the hermetic movement. He also comes in contact with the writers of the magazine "Solaria" among whom are Montale, Vittorini and Gadda. Mario Luzi's literary debut dates back to those years: in 1935, in fact, he published "La barca" (The Boat), his first poetic collection. Luzi, after graduating in French literature, began teaching in a master's school in Parma, but shortly thereafter moved to Rome, where he lived underground until the end of the Second World War, due to the oppression of the fascist regime. In 1940 he published the collection "Avvento nocturnale" (Night Advent), which brought together poems composed between 1936 and 1939, deeply influenced by French symbolism. In 1945 he returned to Florence and in the following years published the poetic collections that will consecrate him artistically in Italy and abroad. In the eighties Luzi received several awards and awards: in 1985 he was awarded the Montale Prize; in 1987 he was awarded the Feltrinelli Prize for poetry at the Accademia dei Lincei in Rome; in 1999 John Paul II entrusted him with the composition of meditation on the Way of the Cross to the Colosseum. In 2004, the year of his ninetieth birthday, he was appointed senator for life by the President of the Republic, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi (published in the same year the collection "Doctrina dell'extremo beginner"). The appointment, born from an initiative of the municipality of Florence (to which other cities and popular collections of signatures have been added), arrives a few days in advance of October 20, the day of the 90 years of Mario Luzi. In 2005 he died in Florence, where he was buried in the Basilica of Santa Croce, together with other greats such as Foscolo, Alfieri, Machiavelli and Michelangelo. In 2008 the collection "Leave me, don't hold me back" was published posthumously. The poetics of Mario Luzi can be divided into three phases: the first includes the production of the Thirties-Quaranta, from the first collection It is hermetic poetry influenced by French symbolism, even if the collection of 1947 already contains the premises for the second phase. This includes the collections: "Primizie del deserto" (1952), "Onor of the true" (1957), "From the bottom of the countryside" (1965) and "On invisible foundations" (1971). In this phase there is increased anxiety and bitterness in the texts, in which anguish and gloomy landscapes are described, where the poet seems to wander in vain search for the meaning of life. In the last phase Luzi adopts a more prosastic style in his compositions and focuses, in particular, on the nostalgic memory of youth. An aspect that will last in all the poetic seasons of Luzi is the certainty of the spiritual essence of the universe, together with the dominant theme of the anguishful time-eternity contrast, individual-cosm. In the social and political crisis of the years of lead, culminated with the death of Aldo Moro, it is his most vibrant moral protest in the country. The Group of the North League therefore associates itself with the memory of Mario Luzi and addresses an affectionate thought to his family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u16	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of chance in the parliamentary calendars, but sometimes chance is assisted by a form of magic. Today, in the Senate Chamber, after so many weeks of abstaining from this type of argument, the issue of our secondary school is on the agenda. It is on the agenda that teachers and their social status are on the agenda, to which, perhaps with an excess of rhetoric, but I still believe with good intentions, the President-in-Office of the Council referred last week in his speech to the Chambers. That of Mario Luzi, a great Italian, a great poet and researcher, was also the figure of a great man of school. After all, in the beautiful profile that my colleague Zavoli has drawn (some quotations unfortunately escaped me, but I will find them, and among them very beautiful was that of turning or giving back to politics), it emerges how Luzi in his human story has always referred to what had meant to him the twenty years of school. He had become a high school professor in the mid-1930s and would come out through the university chair of French literature. Recalling those years, Luzi, professor of Italian and Latin in our high schools, said not with pleasure, but with a certain pride: I think I gave something to the school, but I also received a lot, in terms of emotional and intellectual growth, from the students I met. I had the privilege of working, after the war, with fellow teachers who had been protagonists of a collective effort to keep together the civil fabric of a country that had been torn apart by dictatorship and war. Luzi was a high school professor and for that post-Jelictian Italy, no matter how fascist and anti-fascist, this was a great ethical-civil discrimination. The university career concerned a few and was derived from a lucky encounter or a well-written monograph, and Mario Luzi of well-written monographs and great translations had accumulated many, even before becoming a high school professor. Speaking today about Mario Luzi also means turning your best wishes to the Italian school, which can and must find itself again, perhaps going back to the past. However, it will be a step forward, coming out of the pedagogical blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. The Italian school must rediscover that sense of history and poetry. Senator Zavoli is right: for Luzi the scientific, philological and literary expression of hermetism can be disturbed, but his civil life, his moral existence, other than hermetic! It was a question of clarity and a voice which they have honoured, albeit for a short time, even this House. With sincere and heartfelt participation all the colleagues of the Group of the New Right Center join the affection of the family in the memory of this extraordinary colleague. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u19	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mario Luzi was born in Castello, in the province of Florence. Talking about the figure and the work of Mario Luzi means not only approaching an idea of poetry and literature among the most varied and rich of the last century, but also celebrating an unrepeatable season, remembering a awakening: to celebrate, in short, that set of poets who, for generational reasons and not only, have crossed the hermetism to reach a territory proper without losing, for good or evil, the specificity of a writing and a style, the intonation of their own voice. "The boat" is the debut collection of Luzi published in 1935, the final edition of "In the magma" (1966), "Land and heavenly journey" by Simone Martini and others would be the numerous stations of his work to dwell on and that here, today, it is impossible of course even to list. Luzi was a teacher, but not only in the sense of a writer to be imitated and remarried: for all he constituted a reference. He was a shy and kind man, able to teach in many ways and to walk the most diverse ways. He always tried to reconcile poetry and civil responsibility, literature and politics, contemplative height and meditation with a constant commitment to peace in this Chamber, which seems to me to be lacking, even today, in this world. Luzi's itinerary was a poetic itinerary (not to mention the translator, the playwright, the music enthusiast, the Frenchman, the very fine and far-sighted literary critic) always in continuous evolution, along a drift that led him from the ciphered track of the pure poetry (understood as "poetry of pure sensation") through the presence of the objects and the precarious mystery that surrounds them, to a colloquiality that opens and arranges the verse to the prose, gradually up to the most intense and sometimes dramatic aspects of the present, and again to the contemplation of the landscape and the undiscovered philosophical reflection of the last collections. To the changeableness of the word and the ability to exercise variations on the style within the perimeter of the matter addressed, Luzi opposed a transcendent vision, albeit imbued at times with a melancholy dimension that finds and restores a form - through the image of the pilgrim and a purgatory coloring - in the metamorphosis of the sense of a life that was (like the painting of Simone Martini celebrated by him) devoured by beauty and is thirsty of grace. We are afraid of pain, no less than death: Luzi was, to the last, an example of intelligence and mildness [[Applause from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and LN-Aut Groups]] and opposed to disorientation and fear the growth of life in creation, even as extraordinary intellectual vitality; the figure of the angel as a messenger of peace and shelter; the beauty that we delude ourselves may be surprised by some transitive form of the face. Love helps to live, to last, love cancels and gives principle. Luzi's poetry is full of extraordinary female figures, beginning with his mother, who introduced him to the values of religion as an intimate meaning and existential urgency, depicted as a Park, an image with which he opens his songwriter: an old woman who, in an old house, sews the past with the present. Celebrating the figure and work of a great poet like Mario Luzi is precisely this: to sew the past with the present; to ensure that his example, his human and political lesson, even before literary, cannot and should never deteriorate. I invite everyone to read the poem "Beauty". The first words recite: "Beauty, we feel that you are in the world" and I add: each one of us tries to seek beauty within himself and outside himself, elevating his own thoughts. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u22	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in my modest personal experience of life, I have had the opportunity to know national communities that devote much more attention to poetry, to the secret beauty of words than we do in Italy. Without wronging any other people or nation, this primacy belongs to the diverse communities of Eastern Europe, to the people who are above and beyond the Danube. Perhaps the Balkans will prepare and generate charm and inclination for poets, those who, in the depths of the soul of the excellent Senator Zavoli, rise alive to the greatness of the text, of thought, of the heart, of the gesture entrusted to the verse, to rhyme, to the free declamation. But Italy and Italians are more in the peculiarity of history, in the individuality of the countless personal stories, in the complexity of a nation that the Oscar Award film "La grande bellezza" reveals even in its tragic miseries, in the sublimation of miseries with universal thickness. It is not a tantalizing rite that we are celebrating here: it is the civil act of a Parliament that, at last, recognizes dignity and decorum to one of its most distinguished members, the life-senator of the Republic Mario Luzi, the most authoritative contemporary poet, first hermetic and subsequently singer of the anguish contrast between time and eternity, between individual and cosmos. Bertolucci, Caproni and Sereni joined him in our twentieth century. The native places were the cradle of its literary originality. What a fortune to live in the capital of Italian literature, Florence, in the 1930s, the city at the time of Eugenio Montale, Emilio Gadda, Aldo Palazzeschi, Elio Vittorini, Vasco Pratolini and Alfonso Gatto. Where is Luzi's singularity, and why was it celebrated in life and commemorated now? The point of view. There is no more judgment or prejudice between the self and reality, between the self as everything and as everyone, and in the flow, it is crossed by life, as it is crossed by the word. The poet, with Luzi, assumes for himself the humble and haughty role of the scribe. And then his deep social, ethical longing for the people: "It is necessary to let him know it, propose it to him, let him read it, to young people, the poem" Luzi told in the famous interview with Paolo Di Paolo, published in 2002 under the title "Offer verses with sympathy." "It is necessary to create opportunities for discovery and novelty," said the master; It cannot be said that, especially in recent years, it is not done. But the outcome is still uncertain: the bleak conclusion of ours. It has been claimed by illustrious critics that Luzi climbs the tragic scene of the world to give voice to the consciousness and inner conflicts of contemporary men. Therefore, his civil and ethical commitment is constant. With the appointment to the laticlavium, the Republic attested in Luzi the acquired point of reference for the institutions, for the institutions, the cultural ones in particular, of the Country. In the collection of verses "The part in shadow" is published for Mondadori by Senator Zavoli, the author challenges his own existence, between remembrance and dream, on the continuous attention to the civil and uncivilized reality of our age. Here Zavoli, as it has been brilliantly written, is the author of a syntax of mute words, because the word enclosed in its necessity knows how to impose itself by virtue of its own relationship with its opposite: silence. For completeness of references, in this silloge Senator Zavoli imagines the reappearance of the figure of the poet Luzi in a historic Florentine coffee. Well, silence and necessity of the word bind Luzi to Zavoli, giving us an immense Luzi, in the fullness of his human work, to our advantage, to the benefit of all of us, to our soothement, to mitigate the fatigue of men and women of all creation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u25	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I thank Senator Sergio Zavoli for the words he has been able to give us and Gianni, the son of Mario Luzi, who is looking at us in the place where his father should have been. I was city councilman for culture in Florence and I had the honour of often conversing with Mario Luzi, sharing emotions, having his interpretation of the facts and events of life. He was generous, very generous with the city. You invited him to events and he came everywhere, to concerts, to exhibitions. He was there, he was always there, and he came in his clear raincoat: so we often remembered him, and even now so I remember him. He stayed with us and talked to everyone. It was even strange to see him like this, but he was very, very helpful and above all - as some of his colleagues said - he was still in the spirit of a school teacher and was very interested in the events of young people. (16.55) (Giorgi's follow-up). So many young people stood by him and he came to the initiatives with the young people to whom we invited him. This is in practice the story of Mario Luzi, of his Florence, of the infinite love for that city that had given birth to him at Castello. It is that small cemetery, where every year we lay a crown for him, that very small cemetery in the midst of the cypresses of Tuscany, very close to Florence. On October 20 we will pay tribute to a man who, with his words, has been able to weave delicate and vital plots, with a timeless poetic (Senator Sergio Zavoli said it very well). They were plots in which his city and Tuscany found space, treated with love and passion in the commitment to depict his soul. When I became city councilman for education in Florence I set up a poetry prize dedicated to him, a prize still existing, in which dozens and dozens of young people who write poetry in his name participate, poems that I would sometimes invite all colleagues to read. The poems of the boys are shocking, they make us think a lot. This award was a way for the city to thank him for what he has been able to give us was also an opportunity to really promote poetry, a poem that must involve the school more and more. Sensitive guys, who try to tell the world and their lives through poetry. Perhaps it will be the art and beauty of thought that saves us: this is the hope that animates our daily commitment. They will help us to look further: we must try to get out of the news, to think in perspective and to convince ourselves that, in the end, humanity perhaps really can overcome the great challenges of our times. Nine years have passed since the death of Mario Luzi, and we have the duty, today more than ever, to remember his figure and his poetry, a gift to humanity, for its very high ethical value and for the profound message of hope that transmits us. The poet is part of our memory and our cultural heritage, and it is right that young people get close to him and learn about the message that he has managed to convey to us. To them, therefore, it is their task to renew this message daily, through their words. Believing in the poetry for Luzi was believing in the continuity of creation - I have already heard it said by my colleagues - to a natural movement that does not stop and to which it is impossible to escape, in which our personal and collective destiny is inscribed in the world. To retrace the entire poetic work of Mario Luzi, this complex and inexhaustible dialectic between man and world is continually rediscovered efficient, naturally intrinsic, vital, so much so that in his beautiful intervention of 1994, entitled "The voice of poetry in the substance of the world," said something that always made me think. He asked himself: We wonder what poetry is used for. When one asks this question, he is lost to poetry. Poetry can serve and be useless, be useless and serve. What? To hear to the full the riddle of life, in its good and evil. These are words in which we find the deep reflections and sensitivity that animated Mario Luzi. That's the message. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen, and please just keep the silence - excuse me if I ask - because it is like a message. I found a heartbreaking and painful memory of him, a poem that dedicated to my Florence, the night the bomb exploded to the Georgophiles, the night that we always remember every year. He wrote this poem, which we read every year to our students, during the celebrations of the Georgophiles, entitled "Whether said". I will read it very badly, but please follow its direction. ==References====External links== May this bitter devotion be said to you, Florence: a city struck to the heart, tormented, not killed; unanimous in anger, be in prayer. They wanted to blind you, they, of the light that you bring forth, illuminate you, then, with the brightness of anger and with the fire of their pain, your dark executioners, perforating in the darkness of their intelligence, excavating in the boulder of their black heart. Be, between grace and suffering, great once again, be splendid, hard yet sacrificial. Help you with your old piety, support you with a new pride. Be careful, be bold. Peace, peace, peace. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u26	I thank and greet again the members of the family of Mario Luzi, present here. I also greet the students of the Liceo socio-economico "Coluccio Salutati" of Montecatini Terme, in the province of Pistoia, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the people who listen to us from outside are well-known the reasons why Senator Gentile has resigned from his government office. The less well-known, however, are the reasons that led the President of the Council Renzi to appoint him State Secretary. That is why the 5 Star Movement Group has put a question to this effect. In any case, I remember that Senator Gentile is the one who would have blocked the press of a local newspaper to avoid the publication of uncomfortable news. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Santangelo. The matter is not on the agenda. You are also referring to reports from newspapers which, as you know, are all to be found. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am announcing parliamentary acts that the 5 Star Movement is doing. This serious act, committed by Senator Gentile, denotes an attitude contrary to one of the fundamental principles of our constitutional order: freedom of the press and of thought. In addition, although he resigned from the post of Undersecretary, Senator Gentile continues to be Secretary of this Assembly. The Secretary Senators shall carry out, or should carry out, particular functions of control and supervision over the progress of the work of the Assembly and the validity of the votes cast. They are also part of the Presidency Council, which is a body of constitutional importance, with delicate tasks such as, for example, the drawing up of the internal budget and internal administrative regulations. In other words, what has made the government office of Senator Gentile incompatible with the exercise of the delicate functions inherent in it also makes it incompatible with the role of Secretary of Assembly. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement formally calls for its resignation from this institutional office, since the honour has been declared to be lacking, as is solemnly required by Article 54 of our Constitution for those who carry out a public function. I would also like to announce to the Assembly that the 5 Star Movement Group will present parliamentary motions aimed at removing the unworthy from government posts, namely: the State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism Barracciu, investigated for aggravated flaw; the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Lupi, inquisited for competition in abuse of office documents; the State Secretary for Health De Filippo, investigated for peculatus; the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport Del Basso de Caro, investigated for peculatus; the Deputy Minister for Interior Bubbico, investigated for office abuse. This is what Renzi treats as the new advancing, and to this we say no. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u32	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, I am really missing the place where we are taking the floor. My colleague, Mr Santangelo, did not quite understand what Rule of the Rules of Procedure, one of which, among other things, is impossible, namely that of the Secretary of President of Mr Gentile, who - today absent - would have been able to make some personal considerations in the name of that proud position which he considered to take, that of conducting a battle for the truth, giving up his well-deserved position as Undersecretary. For my part, I would just like to say to all my fellow Members that this is the limit we have reached, and they meditate on all those who have helped in the past years. I am referring to the limit point for which only one newspaper item is sufficient to cause certain, immediate and irreversible damage to a person, whether a Member of Parliament or a non-Member of Parliament, only one newspaper hypothesis is sufficient, because there is nothing on Mr Gentile either from the point of view of the slightest circumstantial elements that may have led to a judicial initiative. There's nothing at all. Yet, on that nothing a voice, a curse, a perverse chain has grafted itself and found itself in politics, which has collected the lowest level of justiceism of these years, even the request for resignation as a member of the Presidency Council as Secretary of Parliament. I would like to remind you that these are also guaranteeing functions, as has already been said, that Mr Gentile has always done the best he can and will continue to do the best he can. But I insist, beyond the absolutely impossible request under our Rules of Procedure, that we should be concerned: where have we come to? How far have we come in the course of these twenty years when, day after day, we have agreed that only one whisper could destroy one person? How far have the guarantees that we have to give each person, the rights of freedom that we should give everyone? Where did we get to? I hope that this House, starting from the Gentile case, will find to the end the ways of the rule of law, rejecting, isolating and isolating any judicial action, such as those which were announced earlier. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u33	The Presidency shall not take into account the political assessments of the representatives of the Groups. I must also say that I have given the floor to Senators Santangelo and Sacconi because they represent the Groups, exceptionally. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII Groups continues]] But now we continue with our work, and I thank all the senators if they allow us to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1254. The rapporteur, Senator Puglisi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I am here to illustrate the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 3 of 23 January 2014, which contains urgent temporary provisions for the extension of the salaries of school staff. The aim of this measure is to clarify and remedy a bureaucratic error caused by the contradictory way in which it has been regulated over the years, affecting school staff. In the past almost all state staff enjoyed an automatic wage progression linked to the seniority of service, the so-called old age shots. At the end of the 1990s this progression was abolished in many sectors, but not in school, where it was left pending the introduction of a career progression in the other sectors. But to date there is no progression of bands, there is no senior professor, there is no evaluation. The automatic wage progression is the prerogative of only role-playing staff and those in charge of religion. Insecure staff do not enjoy wage increases linked to seniority of service. At the time of possible entry into office, however, the precarious staff is the subject of a measure for the reconstruction of the career, with which it is recognized, on the basis of specific rules, the seniority of service matured during the years of precarious. The reconstruction is arranged as a result of the passing of the test period and the relevant measure is actually taken even years later. Salary shots, over the course of a teacher's career, are five and the difference between initial and final monthly is 747 euro for teachers of the school of childhood and primary; 865 euro for teachers of the second grade secondary; 995 euro for teachers of second grade secondary. Salary shots for the school sector, in the given situation, are therefore of fundamental importance due to the blocking of the contract and because they are the only means of improving remuneration. As we well know, article 9, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 has arranged the blocking of salary automations for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013, for all employees of public administrations included in the ISTAT list. For these years, therefore, the remuneration of staff employed by public administrations could not exceed what was received in 2010. The subsequent Decree-Law No 98 of 2011 provided that this block could be extended for a further year by decree of the President of the Republic, which then happened punctually with the D.P.R. of September 4, 2013, the real cause of all the mess on the school shots. I was rapporteur for that opinion and, as the Education Committee, we had unanimously made comments against the first relevant Commission. Let us not forget, in fact, that Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, providing for a very heavy work of rationalization of school spending, had arranged that 30% of the so-called savings should be reinvested in the school. Article 8, paragraph 14, of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010 had provided that these sums could be used for the recovery of salary shots and so it was for 2010 and 2011. But already in 2011, in addition to the 30% savings (equivalent to 31 million), MIUR had to use resources partly from the MOF for the improvement of the training offer (MOF) for 350 million euros, reducing the ancillary salary of school staff and, with it, the additional benefits for pupils. In fact, the 2012 Stability Act stated that the resources to be devoted to the recovery of shots could also be additional compared to 30% of the savings, through a negotiation session, without additional burdens for the State. It is therefore, to date, the negotiating session for 2012. Since for 2013 the school staff were paid for the shots, then retroactively denied by the decree of the President of the Republic of 2013, the school staff (boss about 50,000 people) arrived the notorious letter of "NoiPA" in which the refund of the amounts received was requested. Therefore, in Article 1 of the decree, it is expected that the sums received will not be returned, but will compensate for what will be recovered for the 2012 shots, at the end of the negotiation session. As explained by the previous Government during the hearings held in 7th Commission, according to paragraph 2 of Article 1 of this Decree, the coverage of the 120 million euros needed will be found by the residues of the Savings Fund of 30% and, if it is not sufficient, as established by the negotiations with the trade unions, those resources will be taken away from the 463 million euros provided by the MOF of the school year 2013-2014. As set out in paragraph 3, the provision shall be valid until 30 June 2014. If the negotiating session is not completed, the sum will have to be paid to the treasury. Finally, paragraph 4 establishes, in the absence of any misunderstandings, that there is no blockage of the salary shots from 2014 onwards for the school staff. Paragraph 5 authorizes the Minister of Economy and Finance to make, with his own decrees, the necessary changes in the budget. Now, pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, the 7th Commission has adopted an amendment which seeks to resolve a further bureaucratic mess concerning ATA staff. This staff, in fact, received, for the school years 2011-2012, 2012-2013 and for the current school year, sums for having performed additional tasks, having been selected and trained precisely for this purpose. These are very important functions. I would like to give a few examples to the House: these are those school workers who are carrying out tasks, after being properly trained, in support of students with disabilities or the technical and administrative staff who are dealing with the reporting of European funds. We would also like to ask the Government for a commitment to restore the funds, which are so valuable and important for school autonomy and for their efficient and effective functioning, which concern the improvement of training provision. Now, I hope that after these vicissitudes, we can soon open a new season of contractual discussion, in which new criteria of career progression for school staff, based on the true recognition of the complex work done in the field of school autonomy, will be added to the service. Madam President, I would ask you to allow me to close this speech with a quote from Mario Lodi, who left us at the age of 92 on Sunday, 2 March. Mario Lodi, elementary teacher, pedagogist and writer, told: A few days ago, in an elementary school, I asked the children what their dreams were for the future. Massimo immediately replied: "become a billionaire!". Dream, shared by other children, that makes us think. Today it is difficult to educate because our commitment to form, at school, the citizen who collaborates, who puts the common good ahead of the selfish one, who respects and helps others, is daily frustrated by the models proposed by those who possess the means to deceive that happiness is in money, in power, in the emergence by all means, including violence. To this perverse force we must contrast the education of feelings: to speak of love to those who believe in violence, to speak of preventive peace to those who want war. We must learn to do difficult things, as Gianni Rodari said in one of his last poems: speak to the deaf, show the rose to the blind, free slaves who believe they are free. This said Mario Lodi in his greeting to the Conference "Educating" is difficult, of Legambiente - MCE. Our teachers do not dream of becoming billionaires, but simply ask to work with dignity and respect to the service of one of the highest democratic institutions in the country: the school. Thank you and good work to all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations to Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, when a skilful society needs money, it also takes it away from schools. This is one of mankind's most iniquitous crimes and the most absurd of mistakes. Unfortunately, these are not my words. Maria Montessori, in her writings, expressed this harsh judgment, which now resounds as topical as ever. Today, this House is debating a measure which seeks to remedy a serious injustice against school staff. This is not surprising, because it is established practice that, when there are resources to be found, when any government or any government wants to implement the spending review and bring money into the coffers of the state, the first sector to touch is that of education. When the salaries of teachers and school staff are reduced, no one stands out or brakes, and one does not realize that, in doing so, one goes to humiliate a fundamental category for the development of society. A society that does not invest in the qualified training of its young people is destined to decline. The situation of teachers is already dramatic. OECD data show that in Italy, expenditure on primary, middle and upper secondary school students has not increased since 1995. As is widely known, Italian teachers are among the least paid in Europe, at the last places for wage progressions, and they hold another sad, very sad negative record: they are the oldest among those who teach in the countries of the European Union. 60% of teachers are over 50 years of age and only 9% are between 30 and 39. The so-called Fornero reform replaced a mother teacher with a grandmother teacher, with the resulting problems. With the blocking of the generational shift in public administrations, public employees have become increasingly less and older; for a modern and efficient public administration, and in particular a functional school, it is necessary to hire young people and regularise precarious people. The problem is serious. The ministers who succeeded with their many reforms have not solved it. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u38	Excuse me, Senator Bignami. I ask everyone to lower the tone of voice, because it is really hard to listen. Please, Senator Bignami.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u39	BIGNAMI (M5S). Proof of this is the national contract of the staff of the school sector that has not been renewed since 2009, and the mockery of the block of salary shots. In recent years there has been no political will to reward the role of teachers. There is no recognition of their competence in the educational dimension, their training competence in the psycho-pedagogical and methodological dimension and their educational competence in the value dimension. The decree-law under consideration is aimed at remedying a mess created by the Ministry of Economy and Finance on 27 December 2013, when with a note it has been formalized the request for return of 150 euros per month to the teachers and technicians who had perceived in 2013 the economic increases for the shots of seniority matured in 2012 and - even more serious - without the Ministry of Education being aware of it. This defiance by the Government was first caused by the delay in negotiation, in order to restore validity for the purposes of career progressions, to the year 2012. Second, the mess was determined by the effects of the decree of the President of the Republic no. 122 of 2013, which adds 2013 to the three years that had already suffered the wages blockades with the economic maneuver of 2010. Only in the face of the protests unleashed by the 5 Star Movement and the thin figure cashed in front of public opinion by a government in which there is no communication between the Ministries has been turned back. Once again he puts a patch with a hasty measure, which is a buffer compared to a very wide problem. In fact, the solution outlined in this measure, although necessary, only partially remedys the problem of the old age of school staff, limiting itself to preventing the withdrawal of the sums previously received. But at what cost is all this achieved? What is needed to finance the measure would be recovered, on the one hand, by drawing on the 30% share of the savings actually made in implementing the Gelmini reform intended to increase the contractual resources for the promotion and professional development of school staff and, on the other hand, by drawing on the resources intended to improve the training provision, i.e. those used to pay overtime to teachers and to respond to the increasing needs of students. This reduces the part of the salary to pay different activities, including the support of pupils, additional hours of sport and integration projects aimed at immigrants, just to give a few examples. The Senate Budget Committee has not failed to point out that it is not clear how the greatest burden will be faced for the years 2014 and following, because the right to economic progression, once acquired, is not a one-off benefit, but will have to be granted by the State also in the years to come. Another critical issue of the decree is that it does not address in a complete manner the question of the economic positions of the ATA staff. We wanted to remedy this serious legislative gap, such as the 5 Star Movement, by tabling various amendments, in order to avoid the return of the incentives received for the additional tasks carried out by the ATA staff who passed a competition. This is a fair economic recognition for qualified staff, who, in addition to normal tasks, perform important functions, such as providing assistance to disabled people, ensuring first aid and replacing the Director of Administrative Services. In conclusion, the underlying problem that is not solved by this measure is that the salary shots, blocked under Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010, are the only instrument for improving the remuneration of school staff. Economic progression must be smoother and faster. Another priority for the new government must be to solve the problem of precariousness, which is touching very high levels: we must invest in our young people and give the school back the attention it deserves. It is not mortifying those in charge and subtracting resources from the education that we can form the ruling class of tomorrow and hope that our country will return to count in Europe and the world. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for far too long now bureaucratic slowness and the sharply opposed positions of the political groups have slowed down the work of those who would like a more competitive school and in step with the needs of a social reality that is constantly evolving. This is why it is essential to reflect on the concept of knowledge and how much the school can offer today. As stated by the new Premier, on the occasion of his recent address in the Senate, the Government intends to invest in education, seen as a key sector for the development of our country. I'm interrupting right now, because - alas! - last week I was absent, cause illness: in listening to the Premier talk about school, the hope from the 38 and a half of fever that I had that day is that it was not the usual propaganda words that have been said by him for months, but finally something constructive. And especially the first visit to a school in Veneto I hope that it is not just a chimera or a mere propagandistic fact, but that something can be done for our schools. In public education, career progression takes place with automatic mechanisms: broadly every five or six years, the teaching staff of schools of every order and grade and the ATA staff (i.e. administrative and technical assistants and school staff) are advancing by a bracket, i.e. automatically, improving by about 50-60 euros - we are really talking about almost ridiculous figures - their daily salary, which to date, however, is significantly lower than the European benchmarks. Here too, we hope that this Premier will bring us, or bring you, or bring them to Europe, at least as far as payroll is concerned. In view of the fact that the average age of recruitment in school has increased considerably, new recruits are often penalised: firstly, by the high rate of precariousness which has always plagued the sector and which in recent years has reached unacceptable levels, which are the subject of sanctions by the European Court, but also by the mechanism of career progression, which provides for the recognition of the first four years of pre-role in full and of the period exceeding two thirds. Finally, in the course of school work, there is no time to mature the highest wage positions, even to the detriment of the treatment of quiescence and the standard of living of future pensioners. Moreover, all governments, which have succeeded in guiding the country over time, have systematically tried to reform the school by adopting the mere criterion of cuts and savings, penalising the entire sector and the quality of service that the school should provide to pupils and families. Even those obtained from the failure to secure schools were considered to be savings and the last school decreto is, in the wake, extended to 2015 the setting up of the fire, not to mention that the Ministry of the Interior was asked to modify (downward) the safety parameters for the number of students in the classes, with an attitude of total irresponsibility to the detriment of students and teachers living in school buildings. The President-in-Office of the Council wants to restructure them; we will see what he can do. School institutions, on the other hand, play a fundamental role in the formation of the future ruling class and, therefore, full dignity should be given back to the school, considering it as a founding element, avant-garde and competitive. It is certainly not by subtracting what will be devoted to the education and training of the new generations, which will be able to remedy an ever-increasing public debt. It's not the school's fault. The savings of expenditure should be sought elsewhere: in the public expenditures, to which no one has yet put his hand, despite the various technical expenditures called by other technical experts and munified with respectable salaries that contribute to increasing the costs of public administration, before providing the answers to diminish them; they are the paradoxes of this Italy. What does the government do instead? It further breaks down public education, covering this measure with the revenue for improving the provision of training, which means that educational institutions are not allowed to pursue the objectives set out in the training plan (POF) adopted by them, thereby subtracting from schools those resources aimed at, among other things, the qualitative improvement of teaching, through the constant training of teachers. Instead, the need would be opposed, investing in the growth of our young people, because only in this way will we be able to raise the fate of a generation that wants to exploit its potential, preparing to face the difficult challenges of the future. On these young people, a precious resource, and on the instruments to support them, such as education and competence, one should aim; this asks us for a generation tired of buffer and hiccup interventions, which wants to be considered for merit and value and not on the basis of wage automation, now completely anachronistic. Today more than ever, it is indispensable to enhance the merit of the professionals of knowledge, recognizing the undisputed value of the teaching profession, but also of the management, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff and of all those who work within the sector. The words "merito" and "meritocracy" are fundamental to us. It is necessary to change the method of evaluation, imprinting it on the meritocracy, which does not provide for a discretionary and subjective evaluation, but careful collegial evaluations, with previously agreed criteria. Everyone, in the specificity of their role, must realize their commitment responsibly, in order to recover the centrality of school and young people, so that culture becomes the centre of gravity of a synergistic action of growth, put in place by all the productive sectors. It is necessary to enter into the order of ideas that it is necessary to invest in school and training policies in order to reopen a dialectical confrontation that has at heart the revival of the country. We believe in the revival of the country. The school believes in relaunching the country. The government also seems to believe it; for now in words, we will see the facts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I have heard the rapporteur, Senator Puglisi, talk about the school, as she always does, with passion. We may not agree on solutions and how we deal with problems, but I have heard a passionate intervention. In the same way Senator Centinario and, first, Senator Bignami spoke, who said things about which one can agree or not, but always with the passion of those who are interested in these issues and want to deal with them in a serious way. I must say in this connection that I am sorry that today, when we are examining for the first time a measure concerning school, the new Minister, recently appointed, is absent. He certainly had other commitments, but I believe that today, out of respect for the House and the subject we are going to discuss, the Minister should have been present.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u44	I apologise, but I give you information, also for the benefit of the House: the Minister asked to be present tomorrow. In fact, the replies were moved to tomorrow, because the Minister wanted us to be present.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam President, for your information, but nothing changes about the importance I was making: one thing is the replies, one thing is the respect that is due to the House and to the people who sign up to speak in the debate, starting with the rapporteur. I have nothing against the Minister, a pleasant person I know, but he is a lack. That's a bad start.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u46	The Undersecretary is present. The government is here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u47	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). You interrupt me, Mr President, but I have already thanked the Undersecretary. Allow me to express my opinion: if the good day is seen from the morning, it is not a good day! Having said that, the rapporteur spoke to us about the bureaucratic error. I believe that the whole House is aware that this is a bureaucratic mistake. We have spent so many words on this, and it was good for Senator Puglisi to remind us - as Senator Bignami and Senator Centinario have also done - all the different passages that have produced what is a mistake that involved 50,000 workers, but the problem is not only how you got to this, but why you get there. How is it that in a government the right hand doesn't know what the left hand does? It is a measure of the government - it was not a mistake of the leaders - what caused this bureaucratic error that involved 50,000 workers (and therefore 50,000 families). The right attention has not been paid to the world of school, an issue which has occupied a great deal of space in the speech of the new President of the Council in this House on the day of the inauguration of his government. I wonder if that really will be the case, because I believe that we all agree on the need to pay back money to people who have already worked in the previous year. That is not the issue I am concerned about today, because the Undersecretary in the Commission has reassured us on several occasions, and we all believe that this is an obvious end to the matter. You cannot ask people who have worked to return the money they have received, after they had already suffered wage blocks for years. Among other things, on career progression I would like to make a small inscription on how we think school should be conceived. Senator Centinario was right to remember this: economic progress is currently dictated only by seniority. My colleague spoke of the five different steps. On the other hand, we believe that career progression and the economic treatment of teachers cannot be linked only to a factor of seniority, but must also be linked to merit and the principle of meritocracy. This is not the place to discuss it, because talking about the school would be too long and vast (now we talk about a small thing important for 50,000 families, which is to see the money they had already received returned), but, if we extend the theme, I would like to remind you that merit is not a small thing. In this regard, Madam President - and I thank you for having included me in the debate (so I have taken the time to speak) - it must allow me to say a few more things. It was a bureaucratic mistake, and the resources must be found (we have also told the Undersecretary today), but they must not come from the MOF, which - I remember - is the Fund for the improvement of the training supply. If we go to get the resources from there, all the speeches of the President-in-Office of the Council, who said he wanted to focus on school, fail. I do not believe that the President-in-Office of the Council, who went to my homeland in Veneto last week, as the first exit of the new government, might think that the improvement of the school only goes from school buildings. Of course, it is very important where the lessons and the state of school buildings are held, but the fact that we are going to get the resources from the Fund to improve the training offer to us sincerely seems that it is not - even in this case - the good day that we see from the morning. Resources must be found differently. Woe if to return the money that teachers, the 50,000 people and the 50,000 families that are related to these workers should return (and it is obvious to everyone that it cannot be so), one would go and take away the money from other educational interventions, such as those related to the world of disability. This cannot be, otherwise the logic I was talking about at the beginning would be imposed: the right hand would not know what the left hand does, and a serious government cannot allow this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u48	Senator Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and government representatives, the central role of the school at this time of economic, cultural and social crisis does not need to be further underlined. Many times in this House, talking about children and adolescents, we have put forward proposals and urged the Government on specific issues and social emergencies that affect the most fragile groups, and first of all children and adolescents. I recall the recent call for a structured training system and an action plan to prevent and combat the phenomenon of cyberbullying. This and other issues, which certainly concern the fundamental rights of the citizen, as Senator Puglisi pointed out at the end of her report, have been and will be the subject of further investigation. It is the fundamental right of Italian citizens and citizens to acquire knowledge and skills, and above all of critical capacity and freedom of thought, essential to separate themselves from a destiny of uncritical consumers of goods and services. The memory of our Mario Luzi, today, has been particularly significant also with respect to the reflection on musical and artistic formation that the Senate has undertaken in recent weeks to honor another great one that has left us, Master Claudio Abbado. Those who have lived in the school for a few decades - and like me there are many others here in the Senate - remember how the formation of school autonomy was lived, with what enthusiasm one thought of a school on the net with its territories in the programming of services, with what passion and renewed creativity the plans of the training offer of the new school of autonomy were elaborated. It has also been possible for several years to experiment with functional bodies, to be aware of how much human resources could find greater satisfaction by giving concrete answers to the educational needs of girls and children, girls and boys. Of course, the resources have always been a problem, but today we take note of the drastic reductions that have occurred over the years on the chapters destined to improve the training offer (MOF) for the carrying out of additional activities; projects often evaluated with extreme attention by the collegial bodies to establish its priorities, specific assignments for the ATA staff, hours exceeded for replacement absent colleagues: from 1,480 million euros in 2010-2011 to less than 1 million euros in 2012-2013 and 2013-2014. But these resources are likely to be halved for the provision due to the recovery of salary shots. We do not oppose the dignity of the teachers and staff of the school, which is certainly inherent in the authority of the institutions, but which is also closely linked to the remuneration aspects, and the rights of children. Since 2009, the school staff sector has been waiting for the renewal of the national contract. This is a serious matter. For this reason, as the rapporteur has pointed out on time, the automatism of the wage shots for the workers in the sector is important. In fact, as the Commission, at the time, we had made comments against the measure that caused the mess, which we are going to remedy today. The school has certainly not stopped: resource optimization operations, the involvement of local authorities, the joint effort of managers, teachers, administrators, collaborators and parents have shown how much our communities consider the school to be the common good par excellence. The new government - we heard it from the Prime Minister and we have mentioned it several times - also places education and school at the centre of its programme. Today's passage on wage automation is a sad page of bureaucratic overlaps, but by extending our gaze we can speak of guilty inattention to the school. We want to define these logics as belonging to the past, because we want to think that for the school and its staff we can look positively to the future, recognizing the professionalism of the staff, improving the recruitment system and providing adequate resources for the school autonomy. I would like to stress the absolute positive nature of the Minister's and the Government's commitment to restoring funds for the improvement of training provision (MOF), to ensure the fundamental functions of school autonomy, resulting from the adoption of agenda No 4 referred to by the rapporteur, who found unanimous agreement in the debate in the Commission this morning. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u50	I address a greeting, on behalf of the Assembly, to the students and students of the Istituto complesso di Lesmo, in the province of Monza-Brianza. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u51	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u52	Madam President, the measure on which we are debating today has been presented, as has been mentioned in so many speeches, by the Government in order to avoid the return by tens of thousands of teachers and ATA of the sums legitimately received by way of old age shots in 2013. In our memory, because listening to some speeches it seems that the memory of so many of us is short, I would like to remind you that the first act of the previous government, the same majority, different ministers, had prepared a first measure to ask for its return. The recent story tells that it happened because of a misunderstanding between the Minister of Education Carrozza and that of the economy (the rapporteur called it a bureaucratic mess). The return was then blocked publicly following the statements of the then newly elected secretary of the PD, Matteo Renzi, and today the new president of the Council. So this is the path that led us to the current decree-law that intervenes to avoid a real forceful withdrawal to teachers and ATA. A due act on the part of the Government, since the recognition of the seniority of service in the school has so far been the only career advancement possible for the staff. The public school has been living for years a definancing situation due to the cutting of ordinary funds and to Law No 440 of 1997 (on school autonomy). These are the main financial resources on which schools can count for the normal functioning and the strengthening of school autonomy. The fund for the improvement of the training offer, which represents the added value to teaching, from 2010 to 2013 has increased from 1.4 billion to 500 million euros. The money was used to cover the salary adjustments no longer foreseen in the 2009 financial. To subtract further resources from the MOFs, as has been recalled by those who intervened before me, means to cut again services to the schools: let's think about the many extracurricular activities for students such as projects, some forms of educational workshops, replacements, recovery courses, important and fundamental in every part of the country. Who cares about school, who knows Italian school (many of us, actually) knows how important these resources are right now to try not to leave anyone behind. You know how important they are to help the integration of foreign students, to avoid school discomfort, to support disabled children. In short, these are useful resources for measures to support that school welfare which is an integral part of the public education system. Resources to ensure equal opportunities for all girls and boys, to respect that important social pact that the State, individual schools, subscribe to with families. Recent reports say that school leaders organize paid school recovery courses in some schools. So only those who have the money will be able to participate in it and will be able to afford it; therefore, a return to an idea of class school of other times. We hope that no one is thinking, in this Government, of asking teachers, often precarious, the most underpaid in Europe, to take courses of recovery free of charge, because we really should have a strange courage. Or to ask the ATAs who have made specific training courses for additional assignments, to assist disabled pupils, without even predicting that annual compensation of 600 euro gross, less than one euro net per day. (17.49) (Following PETRAGLIA). All this happens while on the one hand the block of contractual renewals until 2015 has been approved and on the other hand changes are introduced to the professional profiles (i.e. increasing the workloads) that either do not provide remuneration or that draw (and this really is a mockery) to other funds of institution. This decree-law, in fact, has forgotten - we say it to the Undersecretary and tomorrow to the Minister - to fill that void of the annual year 2013, which had been created precisely with the entry into force of the law 30 July 2010, n. 122, and extended by decree of the President of the Republic n. 122 of 2013, nor intervenes for the blocking of contracts and shots of seniority, which has already penalized thousands of teachers and ATA, in particular the stabilized of the last two years, to which will be blocked the reconstruction of career lacking the legal validity of 2013. The decree lengthened, for all, by one year the seniority useful to acquire the higher wage class, without possibility of recovery. Therefore, the failure to recover the 2013 annuality poses a problem of equity. Today there is no increase due to the seven-year blockage of contractual renewals. We wouldn't want to meet again in a while with another decree to heal this umpteenth incongruity, perhaps with further reduction of the MOF. Almost all public sectors have been affected by cuts and reductions, but school and the whole knowledge sector have been mortified. We too have listened carefully to the statements made by the new President-in-Office of the Council, who indicated school construction as a priority and urgency in order to restart the country. It is certainly important to finance school construction so that we do not talk about school only in moments of tragic emergency, but after having secured the containers we must deal with the contents. The school, in recent years, has really suffered dramatic cuts. The school of Minister Gelmini and Minister Tremonti was the result of a simplified idea, which has returned heavily back in time. It is a one-dimensional school, which must cost less and less: a cut of EUR 8 billion that - I think - we will never recover again without action of real courage. It is therefore necessary to return to investing in all areas of knowledge and to make the most of work. The Berlusconian project of the school found many proselytes even after and designed a less school: less education, less culture, less school obligation, less autonomy, less participation, less collegiality. It brought the school back, making it worse. Today the Italian school goes on thanks to the tenacity and good will of many teachers who daily work there, aware of the social work that is entrusted to them and the little consideration of the various governments that have alternated. We know - we say this to the new Government and also to the new Deputy Secretary - that you have inherited a decree that, in short, perhaps is not the best way to start a new job, a new phase, a new experience. We ask, however, that at least this is the opportunity and the opportunity to take a serious commitment to regain the resources stolen from the MOF at least until the end of the school year and to obtain real and additional resources from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in order to be able to finance the system of public education independently. A country that does not invest in school, that does not invest in future generations and young generations - we will never tire of saying it - is a country destined to always lag behind. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u53	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure aims to remedy a mistake caused by the confusing and often contradictory way in which the sector has been regulated in recent years, mainly by harassment of school staff. In fact, the article 9, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 31 May 2010, n. 78, has arranged the block of the salaries automatisms for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 for all the employees of the public administrations inserted in the list ISTAT. Block that, because of the economic crisis and the consequent loss of purchasing power, has severely penalized the workers. For these years, therefore, the remuneration of such staff could not exceed that received in 2010. With regard to the staff of the school, however, a block was expected for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, with a slightly different temporal progression compared to the rest of the civil servants. The subsequent Decree-Law No. 98 of 2011 provided that the blockade could be extended for a further year, which then occurred punctually with the decree of the President of the Republic, September 4, 2013, no. 122. While for all employees of public administrations Decree No 122 of 2013 extended the block for one year (to 2014), for school staff the block had a retroactive effect, since it concerned the year 2013, during which the school staff had perceived the shots completely legitimately. It should also be recalled that on the draft decree, the Committee on Culture, which was involved in the consultative phase, had made observations contrary to the first Commission, which was responsible for this matter. To remedy this situation, the decree today before our examination allows us to use the fund on which the economies of the school sector established in 2012 have flowed to finance the payment of greater salary skills to the school staff, recognizing the greater seniority acquired in the year 2013 for economic purposes. We must remember, however, with a strongly critical intent, that Decree-Law No 112 of 2008 indicated the destination of one third of the aforementioned economies to initiatives aimed at the promotion and professional development of the career of the school staff, while the provision allows to use them for the different purpose of intervention in contractual matters for the staff of the school, for which the same decree-law originally provided for the finding of additional resources without new or greater burdens for public finance. Finally, it should be criticised for the use, in 2014, of sums to cover higher charges for 2013, which violates the principle of annuality of the budget. We hope that a new season of contractual discussion will soon open, in which new criteria of career progression for school staff will be added to the service, based on the real recognition of the complex work carried out in the field of school autonomy and meritocracy. And that is precisely why we in the North League hope that the school fund, which is largely plundered to find resources in the immediate future, will be gradually restored, both in order to improve the provision of training and in order to increase the remuneration of the staff themselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary Toccafondi, this measure is aimed at resolving a matter of fundamental importance in relation to the economic and salary treatment of school staff. For too long, civil servants, especially school staff, have been serving the negative effects of the crisis through a continuous wage freeze, which over the years has seen a constant decrease in purchasing power. As of 2010, the block of wage automation for all public personnel in 2011, 2012 and 2013 has been put in place. The decree-law also provided for the blocking of old-age progressions. In particular, for the staff of the school it was expected a time span of the salary block diversified from that of the other civil servants: in fact the three-year block started from 2010 and ended in 2012. Subsequently, with further measure, it is expected to extend the provision on the salary freeze also for the year 2013. With the blockage of the shots, the leading school staff would have earned the right to a higher salary with four years of delay than the previous legislation. The decree of the President of the Republic n. 122 of 2013, which entered into force on 9 November 2013, on the subject of school staff intervenes retroactively on the block of salary shots that had already been legitimately completed during 2013, the first useful year following the three-year block 2010-2012. The blockade was therefore arranged after some 50,000 employees had already received, from 1 January 2013, the salary increase due to the maturity of the service during the first months of 2013. This employee audience should have returned the higher salary received. In order to avoid a further wage reduction and the return of the sums has been approved this decree-law, whose article 1 provides that the sums received must not be returned, but go to compensation with what will be recovered for the shots 2012, at the conclusion of a negotiating session that will take place by 30 June 2014. The provision, which will be valid until 30 June 2014, provides that recovery measures for payments already made from 1 January 2013 will not be implemented. With this measure, there is clarity on the inapplicability of the freezing of salary increases for 2014 to school staff. Clarity that finally comes after years in which the contradictory way of lawmaking has led to such situations, in which the rights legitimately acquired are questioned for the stratification of provisions with retroactive effects only in order to achieve repeated savings of expenditure over time. But, beyond the specific question analysed and resolved by the decree, my reflection wants to focus on a theme that is no longer procrastinable: the valorization of the school sector. Our teachers are the least paid among other European countries, with many years of precariousness. We must restore social prestige, as our President-in-Office has also said. Salaries are 17th place in Europe. It is necessary to review the staff, who have been stationary for several years, with the number of students increasing more and more and leading to the formation of the so-called chicken classes. A country projected into the future cannot continuously cut resources for investment in human capital. And when we talk about human capital, in this area, we refer first of all to the pupils, the future generations of this country, and therefore to those who have the responsibility to train and orient the future generations: I refer to the body of teachers and the entire school staff. The latter, each year, faces increasingly difficult working conditions. However, conditions that, starting immediately, must necessarily be valued: not by chance, a priority highlighted by the new Executive concerns investment in education and therefore the effectiveness of the entire school sector and the structures in which it operates. We need to reverse the trend in this sector and that means, in fact, realising that we can no longer operate with a purely accountantistic assessment of the distribution of the resources at stake. Particular attention should be paid to the so-called MOF funds, intended for the remuneration of school staff and for the carrying out of additional activities able to add value to the whole sector. Unfortunately, assessments have often been made of the opposite sign and we would therefore like this hope to be given greater consideration. The funds to improve the training offer amounted to 1,480 million euros for the school year 2010-2011; subsequently they were reduced in a proportionate way to the reduction of the staff in service, for about 45 million euros per year with Decree-Law No 78 of 2010; a further reduction of 45 million euros was ordered by the law of stability for 2013 and finally the funds were reduced with the national collective agreement of the work of 2013, to finance the recovery of the utility of 2011 for the purpose of the maturation of economic seniority. A further reduction of the MOF is planned, starting from the 2013-2014 school year, as reported during the hearing of the former minister Carrozza held in the Senate. No more school cuts! I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the reversal of the trend which I wanted to see and which I have tried to motivate by drawing up a basic framework, which underpins the aims of this measure, will begin with this first step. The valorization of the school sector and the teaching staff of this country is therefore the main reason for the new course of this Government and Mrs. Minister Stefania Giannini, to whom we recognize great sensitivity and great competence in this matter. We in the New Right Centre will support every initiative that goes in this direction, because we believe that the world of school is to be observed in a particular way. Only in this way can new centrality and better performance be restored to the education and training of future generations. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Liuzzi and Puglisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u57	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u58	Mr President, between January and September 2013, the mechanism of wage cuts had initially resumed its course, until the arrival of an incomprehension, so to speak, between the Ministry of Economics and Finance (MEF) and the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) to which it was tried clumsily and hastily to remedy by blocking the repayment of the sums already received by the school staff in the meantime; secondly, by penalising those who intended to submit in January 2014 the retirement application, having matured the step in 2013, but who, following the freezing of the years 2012 and 2013, had to postpone for another year, having not been able to enforce the salary step on pension and liquidation. We had pointed out some concerns about the way in which the issue was addressed, starting with the regulatory bias that frequently characterizes the school world. The contradiction and illogicality with which one tries to remedy a posteriori, following instances and protests, would seem to reveal that in Italy those who protest and struggle will have the right to be right, as if what is claimed was not a right or, at least, a legitimate claim. This indicates a lack of communication between the ministries involved: it has passed in the morning from a government that certainly did not seem to have clear ideas, to a fantomatic as non-existent success of the Commission. Then there is the problem of cover. The 120 million needed to finance the measure was recovered through the Training Supply Fund. How unreasonable a choice of this kind seems to be now unnecessary to explain it, also in view of the fact that these resources - earmarked for recovery courses and didactics - have undergone cuts and downward adjustments since 2010. It is clear that such a choice cannot be shared. Economic resources cannot be recovered from the Fund for the improvement of training provision, including the School Institutions Fund (FIS), for additional activities in favour of pupils with disabilities or in projects of areas with high social risk, because in this way everything about teaching, integration, education and training of pupils continues to impoverish. The term "school" is so dear to all the Prime Ministers who have so far been heard, in reality it is an empty term, a word which, from time to time, allows them to separate themselves from the reality of a real commitment. The school, however, is life and makes it precarious and uncertain, especially for those who represent its foundations, will lead to an epilogue that is certainly not upbuilding. We decide what to do with the school: we decide if we want its good, and at the same time ours, or if we want to continue to vote for it for the perennial sacrifice, with all that comes from it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Ferrara Elena, Liuzzi and Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u59	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u60	Mr President, the decree-law in conversion intervenes to fill a gap that had been created in an area that is particularly dear to all of us, that of the school, in reference to the block of the automatic salaries for the teachers and the ATA staff (administrative, technical and auxiliary), introduced by Decree-Law No 78 of 2010 and extended until December 2014 by the decree of the President of the Republic 4 September 2013, n. 122. The Italian school staff (it must always be remembered, because all our measures affect a devastating situation trying to heal it, with very little results) have salaries that are among the lowest in Europe; the two measures, which I mentioned not only pedissequo, but also to remember the historical moments in which they were issued, had the effect of crystallizing the adjustments to inflation, effectively blocking wages in 2010: this happened first with the Berlusconi Government and then with the Monti Government. So now we have an opportunity to intervene, moreover, on a serious bureaucratic mistake, because to a dramatic situation another is added, which unfortunately we are often looking at in recent weeks. This bureaucratic error is generated by the often contradictory way in which it has been regulated in recent years, arriving in this case to have a retroactive effect from the socially disruptive potential. In fact, for staff employed by public administrations, Decree No 122 of 2013, about which I have spoken before, has foreseen the extension of the block for 2014, while for the school staff it has had a retroactive effect also on all 2013, when the year was practically concluded, thus creating a situation difficult to manage, as we understand. This has meant that those who had perceived shots quite legitimately, in absolute good faith, have seen the return of the same. The absurdity is truly obvious to everyone, and in fact we are called here - and in this sense our task is now only to heal - to heal a completely abnormal passage. In the face of all this and the heavy cuts known to the sector in recent years, we have today a duty to clarify the role we want to give to the school: colleagues have talked about it, but we must repeat it. The sector of the school - in truth I have already mistakenly called it that - is not an area, but something absolutely transversal: without the school a country does not go ahead, and this in Italy has not yet been understood. I have great confidence that this has been understood, and understood well, by the new Government, at the moment when our Premier, Matteo Renzi, set up the speech with which he asked for trust, both here in the Senate and in the House, exactly on the front of the school, the school that is priority for the Italian relaunch. In this sense we can speak - we really hope - of rebirth. We will be here to check and check that all this is done because, precisely, as far as I am concerned and as far as my party is concerned, school is certainly a priority. A rebirth, therefore, that can happen only by investing in the merit, skills and valorization, first and foremost, of the staff of the Italian school, as well as on the innovative capacity, so at the school we can only naturally unite universities and scientific research: that is what we must go on with. In this area, therefore, we have a duty to restore social centrality to the role of the teacher, debased and distracted: it is to this category that we entrust, in fact, the most valuable thing we have, namely the formation of our children and future citizens. On the contrary, as I said, in fact we distract teachers, believing that they do not have a high social value, very high. This recognition must also go from a fair pay, as well as from the possibility of teaching in appropriate structures. School building is an issue on which we must never tire of paying attention. A boy will never respect the institutions and the teachers themselves, nor will he trust a state that holds him in distracted schools, which are shameful! So it is clear that the school building sector is also crucial as an element of civil growth for children. If children do not feel respected, why should they then respect the institution? The one with the school is the first relationship they have with the institutions and with the State: it is therefore on what we must play the civil future of our country. We cannot therefore ignore the need for intervention for teachers, who are working on low salaries, armed only with their skills and without training, since - as we always remember - our teachers no longer have any training. They do it themselves, if they are lucky enough to live in very beautiful cities, where they attend exhibitions and anything else; certainly much less possibilities have in other situations, where maybe the external opportunities are very limited, but it is the same teachers who have to want to do something. For many years in fact we have forgotten the very high role that training has to have an ever better school. Tomorrow the Minister will come, to whom we will also ask for a strong commitment on this point which, although not having directly to do with the measure under consideration, is very related to the issue we are dealing with today. So there is a need to get teachers to do their work in the best possible way. Of course, however, we must also ask the Minister for a strong commitment, because the resources that will be used to heal what, to some extent, is the vulnus of the measure that we will have to vote will be recovered - my colleagues have spoken very well before - from the front of the chapters dedicated to school and education in general, so from the projects that make our school a little more competitive and attentive to everyone's needs. In particular, at a time when immigration and so many issues, which are important, must be dealt with within the school, find the resources to pay teachers and to heal this situation from the educational project front (from the MOF) is obviously not the best and not what we would have wanted. On an agenda we will ask for a commitment from the Government in this respect. It is a great commitment that we will ask for and that we ask of this Government. The measure is necessary and we therefore have a moral duty, of course, to vote on it, and we shall do so. Of course, however, we must also think of a different future, which is first of all built in school classrooms, with children, with teachers and with the staff who live in school. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u61	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u64	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a comment on the case which in recent days concerns the Criminal Court of Milan, Cesare Beccaria, to remind you that in March 2013 the director and the prison police commander of that Institute were both transferred after a long ministerial inspection, which revealed serious difficulties in the management of the Institute, mainly due to the difficult relations between them. Since then, Dr. Alfonsa Miccichè, former director of the Criminal Institute for Children in Caltanissetta, has been in charge. In this year the situation of Cesare Beccaria under its direction has greatly improved, both in the functioning, both in the relationship between the workers, and in the opening to the territory of the Institute, enhancing important initiatives built and carried out with volunteering and associationism. On 28 February, Dr. Miccichè's annual appointment expired, and now the Institute has no management. From several parts, from all the staff and voluntary organizations involved in the life of the "Cesare Beccaria", up to the chaplain of the Institute Don Gino Rigoldi, has come in these hours a heartfelt appeal to ask that the work of these last months do not stop and that Dr Miccichè take over the direction of the "Cesare Beccaria" indefinitely. I speak to support this request, knowing that in this House we often talk about prisons and children in order to denounce problems or even abuses. In this case, however, it is a question of making the most of a positive experience, recognising the merit and committing itself so that this work can continue. I would ask you, Mr President, to make yourself available to the Minister of Justice for this request, which - I repeat - before we come from those who work daily to make Cesare Beccaria a structure increasingly capable of helping the children who are held there. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u67	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, today I am invasive, but there have been opportunities to intervene: apart from the decree-law, there has been the commemoration of Luzi, my great fellow citizen, and now there is the Oscar. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barani]] We haven't talked about it, no one has talked about it, but I am part of the Commission on Culture, and we have to talk about it. This Oscar makes us proud, because with "La grande bellezza" Italian cinema has returned to shine in Hollywood, fifteen years after Roberto Benigni's success. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen (as was done today in the newspapers), that we had won it in 1947 with "Sciuscià" in 1950 with "Ladri di bicici" in 1957 with "La strada" by Federico Fellini, in 1958 with "Le notti di Cabiria" by Federico Fellini, in 1963 with "Otto e mezzo" by Federico Fellini, in 1965 with "Ieri," today and tomorrow "by Vittorio De Sica," in 1970 with "Investigazione su un città al di al di al di sessuto" by Elio Petri, in 1971 with "Il giardino dei Finzi Contini" by Vittorio De Sica, in 1974 with "Amarcord" by Federico Fellini, in 1988 with "L'ultimo imperatore" by Bernardo Bertolucci, in 1990 with "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" by Giuseppe Tornatore, in 1992 with "Medi" by Gabriele Salvatore, in 1988 with "L's" with "L's" with "L's" with "Beaus" and "La belles" with "La belles" with "La bel. Let's remember that this is the thirteenth statue for our cinema for the best foreign film, and no country has ever managed to win so many prizes. I repeat that no country has won 13 Oscars for the best foreign film. This must further make us proud. It is good not to forget that our cinema has a great tradition; even in the world of Hollywood it has been able to earn respect and honors, despite the always scarce resources compared to the great American majors. Sorrentino, Benigni and all the others I mentioned and many others raised to the sky the statue of the Oscar. It is the italic genius, the cultural sensitivity and the depth of ideas that triumph, and not the special effects or the billionaire budgets, although of course there is a need for money, just as there is a need - I stress this here, in the House - for a law on cinema, because it is time for us to do it. AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! DI GIORGI (PD). The law on cinema in our country is missing: it is not a coincidence, and we also know why. We have already talked about this issue within the 7th standing Commission. So, we're going to make a movie law, because I think we need it to honor him by politics and give him the opportunity to work, and work well, to all those who do art with cinema. It is certainly also economic development: a new, real and beautiful law on cinema will, of course, allow - taking into account the rest, that is, the Network and all the productions of different kinds existing at this time - to create new jobs. It's a way to develop our country. If we do not put on income - as we use to say - or value what we have of splendid, we evidently miss a thousand opportunities. Therefore, for us Members of Parliament, this Oscar prize must be a way to move forward and to commit ourselves to what is our task. What can we do for the cinema? Maybe we can make a new law. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u70	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, today, as a worker in the film industry, I feel obliged to recall the disappearance of Alain Resnais and also the importance of cinema in our society (just recalling the Oscar). Alain Resnais was not only the point of reference of the very important Nouvelle Vague and of all the directors who revolutionized a way of making cinemas, telling with the images, but he was also an author, an intellectual immersed in the social and political history of France and Europe, from the years of the post-war period until his death. One cannot fail to note the similarity between certain cultural and technical conditions of the 1960s and those of today. That was a historical period full of worries, revolutionary, but also rich and fruitful for film and artistic experimentation, with the search for languages and human, political and social stories of great topicality. Today we are experiencing as many concerns and technical innovations that have allowed so many to express themselves through the film story with exceptional results. Yesterday, for example, we received an important award for our cinema. As the actor Toni Servillo has expressed, the Oscar received for "The great beauty" of Sorrentino is an injection of trust, it is a recognition to an all-Italian supply chain. In fact, we Italians - let me tell you by those who have lived it on their own skin - are really good at filmmaking and recognize it all over the world, except at home. The politicians, who have recently climbed on the winning cart (including the neominister Franceschini), should really commit themselves to investing with criteria on an industry that, besides being culturally important, produces work and wealth like few others in Italy. Instead, as we denounce today an article on "The Daily Fact," we have not even been able to promote our cinema in Europe and bring home results regarding European policies that have recently been defined to help national industries. In short, if we excel it is only thanks to those who make films in Italy, despite the clientele system and not meritocrat established in recent years and the incomparable cuts suffered by the entire cultural sector. For the rest, from politics the usual attitude: he arrogates successes not his own, while Pompeii continues to collapse. Forewarning that the 5 Star Movement at the same time will present a motion to commit this Government to truly launch an investment policy and relaunch the sector, with a long-term strategy. We invite the Ministers, colleagues and the Government to commit themselves seriously, because in Italy one could live on culture, cinema and tourism, and not die poisoned by factories and waste. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Giorgi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u73	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member elected abroad in the South America distribution, I would like to report today on the news from Venezuela, which is of growing concern. This is the country's general situation: inflation galloping between 40 and 50 percent per year, a more than widespread crime and a growing shortage of basic necessities, added to the non-existent dialogue between President Maduro and the opposition. I would remind you that one of the opposition leaders, Leopoldo López, is in prison today and nobody knows why or where. These are the elements that clarify the reasons for the popular demonstrations of recent weeks, which began in the state of Táchira, near the border with Colombia, and which then spread throughout the country, especially in Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, highlighting the failure of the pro-Cuban policies adopted in the last five years. Venezuela, thus, is today split into two: on the one hand, the political line Chavez-Maduro-Castro, on the other, the people who suffer. At this point, I would like to thank very much our consulates general - that of Caracas and the other of Maracaibo - for they were very good at assisting our fellow countrymen who also suffered the penalty of prison. These consular structures are still standing and active only today thanks to our interventions - and when I say "our" I refer in particular to the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad of this Senate, to the Foreign Affairs Committee of this Senate and to the General Council of Italians abroad - against the wrong interpretation by the MAEC of the spending review, which had as its final result the closure of the aforementioned consulates. Thanks to the presence of such structures, which guarantee that of the Italian State abroad, the compatriots Giuseppe Di Fabio, Gianfranco di Giacomantonio, journalist, and, finally, Francesca Commissioners, reporter, arrested last Friday, during the protests in the square, were released. Unfortunately, other compatriots remain in detention, which the consular authorities are already working on. Venezuela is one of the countries historically close to Italians and in fact has one of the largest communities of Italians abroad: in this sense, we of the MAIE ask the new Executive to follow closely the events in progress. Finally, I express our closeness to all the families of the victims of the clashes and call on all political forces to stop the violence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u76	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief, but with the content that I think is very important. In the past few days, I had a phone call and an interview with the mayor of Arsago Seprio, in the province of Varese, who reported to me a fact of which I personally verified the contents. Arsago Seprio is a small town in the province of Varese that, in an instant, has found the presence of 50 foreigners, citizens not regular, but brought by the hand of the State. With a convention, in fact, the Ministry, in October, established relations with a cooperative that aims to collect those who are rejected by other European States and returned to the country of first entry, so that they are managed until possible verification of refugee status. The out-of-place, hallucinating thing that I even think is socially dangerous is that these 50 people, who are part of a small community, create tensions and concerns about which I would like to see the Minister of the Interior really concerned. These people cost the community 30 euros a day, which, for a year and a half, correspond more or less to 600,000 euros, when in the same country there are unemployed citizens who do not find the job and citizens who have paid the taxes for their whole life and, now, find themselves no longer having a perspective on the future, with a serious social tension that must not be underestimated. We will endeavour in every way to give the citizens of Arsago the guarantee that their rights and their protection come before those who, foreigners, illegals and the most irregular, as in this case, are even hosted in hotels or apartments for rent at the expense of the community. This is a kind of reception policy that we do not agree with. We therefore call on the Minister for the Interior to deal with this issue - and we will also do so by presenting a specific question. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-200.ana.u78	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, March 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.31 a.m.
