ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 25 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u4	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Thursday, 2 October, at 9 a.m. to vote for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative is convened on Wednesday 8 October, at 8.30 a.m., at the Senate of the Republic to proceed to the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1613 already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u8	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the decree-law which provides for the further extension of military missions. It will do so with conviction, in the light of the growing international emergency; it will do so for the usual and convinced support of our Armed Forces engaged in many crisis scenarios with great competence, professionalism and with great appreciation of the international community. It will also do so in the light of the amendment approved in the House to the so-called mission decree that its political party strongly supported after the Government communications in the joint foreign commissions and defence of the House and Senate, and that sets a limit to the military mission anti-piracy in the Indian Ocean (it is also a military mission). The decree, as it is examined today by the Senate, contains on that mission a limit and a conditioning: if the long and painful story of our rifles of Marina will not be resolved, Italy will not participate in that mission. That amendment that we approved - and I also thank the President of the Defence Commission of the Elio Vito Chamber and all the Groups that in the Chamber, in agreement with those of the Senate, wanted that amendment - is also a warning to the international community, so that respect for the Italian role is shared by everyone. Italy participates with thousands of soldiers, women and men, in many international scenarios, from Lebanon to Afghanistan, to many other missions that this decree-law extends, so it must have the solidarity of the international community. I would also remind the representatives of the Government that the momentary return of the rifleman Latorre to Italy related to health reasons, which I find to be perduring in a worrying way, has a time limit; therefore, as the Minister of Defense knows well, which I thank for his presence, at the beginning of January will expire the period granted to Latorre for treatment. Although we have not, according to the opposition, made any controversy at this stage on this matter, at the cost of disappointing the expectations of many who would have liked a more gladiatory and more decisive attitude towards India; we have not fed and we will not feed controversy because we want a definitive solution; we want international fora to be able to do the investigations due with our naval rifles in Italy and not, as happened for Latorre, for reasons which are well-founded, worrying and lasting of health. I also know that Latorre also lives with personal discomfort the separation from his colleague Girone who remained in India, almost putting reasons of honour and solidarity with his colleague to the more than justified and just concerns for his health. So the clock is ticking, Madam Minister. We are sure that the Government is not only aware of this, but uses this time to avoid being in early January - God forbid - in the face of an embarrassing and difficult discussion about a possible and yet another return of Latorre to India, because conditioned - and I do not want to use stronger terms - by the Indian Government, given the permanence of Girone in India. Use your time effectively. Let us seek international solidarity so that, even in the light of the Italian commitment to military missions, the international community may make the question of Girone and Latorre a matter for all and not only Italian; let us accept international jurisdictions, but let this state of substantial detention be put to an end. The parliamentary committees, President Latorre and all of us have also acted with a sense of responsibility. Therefore, addressing those who follow us from the outside I say that, if we do not feed controversy, if we do not raise banners, we do so precisely in order not to complicate a story that we want to resolve and that however can not continue eternally. With regard to the missions, I believe that in the light of what is happening, the beheadings of Gourdel, Foley, Sotloff, the story of David Haines, the threats and the facts that have also occurred in these hours, with women beheaded in Syria always - it seems - by the representatives of the Islamic State, show how much the international emergency has not ceased, how much military missions are necessary, how much, for example, in Afghanistan, the path towards democracy is anything but consolidated and how much progressive decommitment, if on the one hand it is part of those international deadlines already set, on the other we worry: will the Taliban return to control that land? In recent days massacres, attacks and attacks in Afghanistan have also shown how serious the ongoing threat of the Taliban is. We want, Madam Minister, to seize in the next few hours, from tomorrow, when we will have a meeting with you at the Senate Defence Commission, also to understand the degree of Italian involvement in the events of the conflict, right and proper, to the Islamic State. We have also sent weapons in agreement with the legitimate Iraqi authorities, but I believe that, as an international coalition has been formed, it is also right in Parliament to discuss the ways and forms of Italian commitment, which is right and right, also because we have never had illusions about a certain season. Someone, even the president of the United States Obama, joyfully greeted the Arab spring season; today we have caliphated not only in the heart of Iraq and Syria, but we have threats that multiply from Nigeria to Algeria to neighbouring Libya. And when someone says that a vacuum has been created in Libya with that wretched war, we claim the foresight of those like Berlusconi, at the cost of assuming the weight of criticism on his shoulders, had indicated the errors and dangers that would arise with that wrong war in Libya, which created a vacuum. No one likes dictators, but the gangs that clash every day and every hour, as is happening in Libya, are certainly worse than the scenarios that had taken place in those countries. Therefore, with the realpolitik that has always characterized our positions, the Group of Forza Italia votes in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in question, does not turn its attention on the Indian story, which precisely for this reason I wanted to place at the center of my intervention, and believes that the emergencies, today even stronger and dramatic, that the international community must face call us to our duties. I would also like to point out that at the recent NATO summit, at which I believe Minister Pinotti was present, President Obama urged all countries to invest more in defence. The Americans obviously bear a lot of physical and economic burdens, but in the face of this emergency and this crisis scenario, which goes from the Islamic State, to Libya, Nigeria, Algeria and other places, neglecting what is happening in Ukraine and in many other parts of the world - leaving aside only by way of saying - there is a need for defence and security. I therefore do not know how we will be able to fulfil this call from the international community. Will they increase or cut their expenses? I am thinking of the debate on our Air Force and our aircraft, which I also believe in the Senate, we will have to resume with realism and perhaps with less heat than has been done in the Chamber of Deputies in recent days. This calls for a series of obligations, which are moral and support to our military, but which are also of an economic, financial and budgetary nature. The concerns and problems in this regard are very strong and the news of these hours and these days we are very concerned, but that is another story, which relates to gross domestic product, growth and resources. So our yes is not an uncritical adhesion, but it is the conscious consent of a political force like Forza Italia, that from the times of the summit of Sea Practice to the present day has always led a realpolitik on the international scenarios, has always promoted and supported the presence also military of Italy in the contexts of crisis, has always looked with realism at revolutions that then turned out to be a total deception. I wish there had been established democracies in all the Arab countries, which are still laboriously marching towards democracy! And how many ambiguities there are, even in the case of the Islamic State, Qatar and other realities, that on the one hand pretend to join the international coalitions and then probably feed a disturbing and unacceptable fundamentalism. That is why ours is a political and conscious yes, but certainly attentive; it is not a delegation in white, but it is the will to play an important and central role in Italy's defence and international policy, as well as being a further and renewed message of support, affection and solidarity to our armed forces engaged in the world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u11	TONINI (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, fellow Senators, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree to extend our international missions and ours will be a firm yes, from the deep roots. We have always voted in favour of our peace missions at international level, both when the electoral citizens placed us in the position of government and when they placed us in a minority position. We have always done so with the serene conscience of interpreting in the most authentic way the unbreakable constitutional dictation of Article 11 of our fundamental Charter. I would like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement and other colleagues in the opposition, that every time they repeat that these missions would be outside the constitutional dictation, that, as we know, Article 11 states the repudiation of war by our Republic, that this repudiation is specified, as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. Well, none of these missions of ours is an offense to the freedom of other peoples, nor an instrument to settle international disputes in a non-peaceful and non-diplomatic way. On the contrary, these missions of ours - all of them - are at the service of what Article 11 says, if you read it all: I mean promotion, also through the limitations of sovereignty necessary for an order that ensures peace and justice among peoples. These missions are at the service of this objective: to build a system that ensures peace and justice among peoples and, as stated in the third period of Article 11 of the Constitution, through international organisations aimed at this purpose. This puts us absolutely at peace with our conscience, because we are voting for peace and we are not voting for war, exactly in the sense that peace and war are defined by Article 11 of our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senator of Biagio.]] Of course, the tranquillity of our conscience ends here, because then comes the torments, the worries, the uncertainties, comes the fundamental question on which they can be today, and if there are, the realistic conditions for creating an order of peace and justice among the peoples, a new world order in which the nations of the earth can cooperate with each other and not be forced to the conflict, to the conflict sometimes armed, which then has as its main victims the civilian populations, often the most unarmed ones; whether it is the extermination of the Kurds between Iraq and Syria (just today we met a delegation of the Kurdish Democratic Party), or the real ecatombe in the Mediterranean that our Navy, with the operation Mare nostrum, has severely limited, acquiring merit in front of history absolutely inestimable. Is it possible a new world order that avoids all this, that definitively surpasses for humanity the tragedy of war, extermination, death desperate in solitude, as happens in so many, too many areas of the world? Certainly this is a question to which it is not easy to answer, because old world orders are definitively concluded. It is certainly no longer between us the old European order established by the European powers between the First and Second World Wars: just think of those borders drawn with the line between France and England on the deserts at the border between what are now called Syria, Iraq, Turkey, borders that are demonstrating all their artificiality and that is why they are the object of such serious and bloody conflicts. Certainly the bipolar order that had guaranteed, in the terror of the nuclear holocaust, relative stability, at least to a part of the world, in the years of the Cold War is over. Certainly the unipolar order in which it seemed that the American superpower was omnipotent is also over, to the extent that 300 million Americans could alone guarantee the order of the world. Today we are in a situation that we could call multipolar chaos, in which so many powers must find a new structure among themselves, identifying the possibility of living together in a positive way, giving globalization, which is the sign of our time, a progressive and non-regressive character. After all, this is also our difficult relationship, at this moment, with one of the great subjects of globalization, which is the great Arab-Islamic world, which at this moment is probably the epicenter of all tensions and conflicts: this huge strategic belt both from the geopolitical point of view and from the economic point of view, that goes from Morocco to the extreme East of Asia, up to lambire the Philippines. A band in which lives more than a billion people who are in difficult search of its role in the globalization of today and tomorrow. We know that we must cooperate, help, promote, within this world, all the positive energies that pursue an order based on the values of respect for human rights, the dignity of man and woman, democracy, an original way in which the principles and values of Islam are compatible with democracy and freedom. It is a huge process that must be looked at carefully and with respect knowing that we cannot be decisive in this process, which is first and foremost in their hands. It is in the hands of the people, of the Arab-Islamic Nations their destiny. They are the ones who have to decide which direction to move. We can only help, favor, come to say even discreetly. Someone mistaken President Obama's attitude for a renunciation. It is actually the only realistic attitude. 300 million Americans - if we consider Europeans as well, 800 million Westerners - can no longer dictate the rules of cohabitation of 7 billion inhabitants of the Planet. But we can and must do our part. And here is the other risk to avoid: the risk of isolation, of disinterest. We must do our part fully because even if we were to be disinterested in international politics, we would not be disinterested in international politics. We know and we see it every day, in particular our country that lives on the most difficult ridge in the Mediterranean basin that is perhaps the area at the highest geopolitical risk of the Planet. And here are the two things we have to do and we can do as Italians. First of all, work to ensure that Europe can finally speak with one voice at international level, both in terms of foreign policy and in terms of defence and security policy. From this point of view, the choice of our Government to focus, on the occasion of the renewal of the European institutions, on the role of the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security in the person of the current Foreign Minister, Federica Mogherini, I believe it has been a choice of extraordinary importance that only a provincial debate that ignores the strategic and decisive dimension of foreign policy and international policy can underestimate. On the other hand, we must use all the leverage we have in our role at international level, starting with the small but important, significant contribution we make to the construction of a new world order based on justice and peace with our military missions and our civilian development cooperation missions at international level. Our collaborators, on one side, and our military, on the other side, are ambassadors to Italy. In all the areas where they are present they have been able to be appreciated by the people, they have been able to be appreciated by the other partners our allies. I am thinking of the extraordinary ability of our military to know what it means to use force in a measured way, in a context in which people must defend themselves and not attack them, defend them from terrorists, from those who want to use force to make war effectively from a military point of view, but in a civil way. It is an extraordinary lesson that our military have given at international level together and in close contact with our civil cooperation missions. That is also why we express our solidarity with our two marshals in India and we ask the Government to continue with the effort it is making to find a positive solution to this issue. I believe that this is a duty on the part of our country and a necessity that we must look to for the future. Let me turn to the last question. In this decree-law there is also a rule that concerns our Italian communities abroad. I believe that from this vote must derive an important commitment of our country to continue to look at the extraordinary resource represented by our communities abroad, precisely to help Italy look beyond its own borders and to fully play its own role, in order to guarantee - precisely - a world order founded on peace and justice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u14	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u16	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 24 September the rapporteur carried out the oral report and some questions for preliminary and suspensive reasons were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u17	Madam President, Renzi is Fornero with short hair and, like Monti, an actuator of squashed policies Italy, indeed, crushes Italians and, even more particularly, a policy that crushes the humble and future generations. This provision has an autocratic stench. Parliament is enslaved and maneuvered from above. It must be said that we are discussing a measure that tells the government to do things, so it should be a measure that has a strong popular expression in itself, because it should be of parliamentary origin. I have used the conditional (should be of parliamentary origin) because this text is of government initiative. We're crazy. We're really crazy. [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I would ask you, if possible, to be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u18	I've already invited senators to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u19	Please, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). They are workers and the future of our young people. This is absurd: a measure which, by its nature, tells the Government what to do is done by the same person, the Government, who will then have to implement it. At this point I wonder why it is not the Government that does it directly, so stop teasing us and the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]] I work in the Commission, which is a place to evaluate, exchange ideas and listen to us, and at first it went well, but the beginning was only the phase of speaking: that's why it went well. After that, everything was rejected, especially with regard to contracts, and therefore the protection of the weakest. It seems absurd to me what has happened over the last two months and continues to happen. I better explain why I'm in a state of mind. The measure under discussion here in the Senate gives a delegation to the Government in various areas: social shock absorbers, work services and active policies, simplification of procedures and compliance, reorganization of the discipline of employment relationships, contractual forms and inspection, protection and reconciliation of the needs of care, life and work. I mean, a lot of shit that goes white to the government. On the other hand, newspapers, radio, TV and politicians talk about Article 18 of the Workers' Statute. To understand very clearly that you want to speak on Article 18 you have to read the newspapers or blogs of the various professors: is it true, Professor Ichino? Yes, because article 4, paragraph 1, letter b), speaks only of prediction, for the new recruitments, of the contract to indefinite time to increasing safeguards in relation to the seniority of service. Just to understand: by what provision does Parliament, called upon to delegate to the Government, understand what the Government intends to do about Article 18? None. What do we have to delegate here? What we read in the papers? Deception is the only authorising principle that your policy can give the country. This is a belief that I'm getting more and more. That is why we are reduced to this state: for deception. You have found yourself the liar with the Taumaturgic powers, which is the summa of the Berlusconian period just passed. We, for the truth, have always said that PD was equal to PdL, always, and I understand that, of course, when you get sick you don't heal overnight: there are hangovers. This is a blank and very vague proxy. I repeat: what are we delegation to the government? Why doesn't the Minister of Labour explain precisely what he means in Article 4? Honestly, we are here in Parliament and we must vote in favour or against, but to what? Newspapers, radios, Professor Ichino's blog? Let us understand. Are we playing? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] For our part, we have proposed a number of amendments which can improve the lives of companies and workers: very stringent simplifications, but without damaging the sacred controls that must always have objective and immediate data. In addition, we opposed the creation of two new bodies: one with regard to active labour policies and the other with regard to labour inspections. Two more new agencies? On TV with deception you say: "outside useless bodies" and then, in concrete terms, create other structures. Stop. On the other hand, we have, however, proposed a way of simplifying, merging and rationalising inspection activities, not through the creation of new rules, new bodies, as you want to do, but simply by applying existing rules. Simplification is not the production of new rules, because we believe that it is not the norm in itself that produces the intended action. The simplification, the fight against bureaucracy must be done by giving substance to legislative action: what has been legislated as we want to achieve it? Instead, it is not achieved and new rules are created. That is why Italy is in this state. We want simplification, bureaucracy, we want to really help workers and small businesses. This is what we are, and we want total simplification. But, while the country's needs are less bureaucracy, less taxes, less corruption, you, the fake left, say that in Italy you do not hire and do not invest because of Article 18, so abolishing it will attract investment and new jobs. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] You sold out! We are faced with a situation of unprecedented gravity, created by you; I repeat: created by you. The problem today in Italy is not to fire more easily, even young people - I repeat: young people too - and it is useless that you go on TV to say that you do it for young people, because Article 4 applies above all to young people, to new recruits. So, more dancing! Stop it, stop it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem is overcoming insecurity, creating new jobs, investing in a different model of development. We are not talking about this, but this should be the central point of a government's action. I am thinking of the workers of FIAT, who have been in the Social Security Fund for years, in respect of whom this measure delegates to the Government to remove the plug. I am thinking of workers in every sector who have sales duties: Listen to me. They will be fired, and they will be proposed to open a VAT number blackmailed by the Fornero-Renzi instrument. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think of the small companies that will be swallowed by the big ones, thanks to the favor you are doing them, because the pigs present in this measure are sewn on to the big companies. This is the measure under consideration, not by chance we saw Renzi together with Fiat's CEO. "Small, you must disappear because you must be swallowed up by the great ones," says the provision. We are faced with the umpteenth Government that provides answers not to the needs of people, but to the requests made by the Central Bank, for financial and economic reasons that have nothing to do with the interests of Italy and the people who in Italy should be able to work to live. Together with Fornero, the Democratic Party has wiped out the pension system in Italy, creating enormous problems for families, and we who are among the people, we are the people, we know it. Today you plan to intervene in the labour market by accelerating the process of impoverishment of rights and people. Precarity for all to sell Italy and Italians in a simpler way: Renzi-Fornero. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u20	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u21	Madam President, I think it is mandatory for me to talk about the situation in which the Commission's meetings took place. Let us call it a job, because there is hardly any talk of work there, because there is talk of something else. That, I must say, humiliates not only Parliament but above all the citizens, the workers, because we would like to talk about the latter, since we would have the power to represent them. What has happened these days? Something has happened that will affect millions and millions of our citizens, young workers, but not only. We went on vacation and, back to the Commission, we found ourselves talking about something we had never talked about. Never! And not only did we never talk about it, but we learned about it through blogs and Twitter, because politics is now reduced to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If any of you have a bit of pride, that's why you should be outraged, that's all! Our beloved President-in-Office of the Council is delegitizing you in all manner of ways, but you do not act to keep your seats. In fact, that is what we are talking about, because he has made it clear to you that if you are good maybe this legislature will last a few more years. But let's get to the point: I heard a tweet about this Marta who was not given the opportunity to take advantage of motherhood, as if it were the fault of other Italian women. I think it is really humiliating, because if we have to talk about social hardships I can take you to talk to the many Antonio Frosolone and the many Maria Baratto (which unfortunately is no longer there), or perhaps with the last two workers who only for having denounced the fact that perhaps, I say perhaps, the means of transport were old and therefore did not guarantee safety they received a letter of call that I do not know where it will lead, and this Parliament does nothing. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] Politics is not interested in this, because it must put against the workers of the A series and the workers of the B series. Look, they're all B-series. Maybe it's not clear to any of you what's going on in the world of work: I'll tell you what's going on. Today in Italy 18 shifts are taken, the workers have accepted everything in order to work and safeguard their work. Do you know what 18 shifts means, dear ghost government? I am sorry, Mr Puglia, that you addressed the representative of the Government, because the real shadow minister is another, we all know who he is. This is to tell the Italians that this is a reform of the left, and I thank you for talking about the fake left, because I am ashamed and, if I could, I would denounce them for embezzlement, for how they reduced the left in this country. I swear! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Because while the Berlinguers went out to talk to the workers, and they also took criticism, he never talks to the workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]] Look what happens in here: we ask the Subsecretaries and the Ministers, who come here, they have proof of what happens and they pretend nothing. Do we want to talk about the lack of rotation at the Fiat di Melfi, a matter that you do not answer? The Integration Fund, the IGC, is paid with public money, by the community, and you have not yet given an answer. Instead, you need to talk about something else, because you need to shift attention from real problems. The faults of the workers, what are they? I have never seen an honest entrepreneur, and there are so many, who are afraid of the laws. You say the Workers' Statute is old. What angers me is that it's a law of the state, and who says it's old? Whoever has been in this Parliament for 36 years and gets itchy every time he hears about the rights and laws that can protect the dignity of workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] He no longer knows how to do it, as if dignity were an option that Italy can no longer afford. Then let us say it: democracy and dignity for workers are no longer granted. Says who? It is said by those who have sat in this Parliament for 36 years and think that the Workers' Statute has been old for at least 40 years (and it is 43 years old!). Do you understand what we're talking about? Are we talking about things that we're talking about? We're talking about things that don't exist! I would add: not only has it been in this Parliament for thirty-six years, but it is always on the side of those who govern regardless of who is in the government: pseudo-left, centre or technical governments. What are we talking about? I truly invite you to feel ashamed of what you are doing, because if one had a dignity, he should be ashamed of what he is doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us examine what these increasing safeguards are for our future workers. A worker should accept everything: he can work three years, he can work a few days (even if you never tell our future workers). So he can work a few days, a few weeks, a few months. If it overcomes all the obstacles - if it overcomes them, because the companies, let us remind our workers, have the possibility to implement five renewals and endless extensions - or if the miracle happens, because of the miracle we speak, the worker, after three years, is engaged with an indefinite contract. But why do we call it "undetermined time" if they can fire him at any time without giving justification? Besides, what should the worker do? Listen, this is the highlight: you should report that you've been wronged. So, if he's okay with it, he's gonna get 2,000 to 3,000 euros, when I think it takes a lot more to file a lawsuit. This means teasing, fucking the workers in a beastly way! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is what you're talking about: you're talking about fucking workers in a beastly way. That's what we're talking about. These are the growing protections. But it is not enough: they are so growing that we must safeguard them with cameras. Maybe they can steal these protections? We have to spy on them. Excuse me, aren't you the ones who get outraged when they intercept you? The workers can be spied on with the cameras, and you're outraged at a wiretap? Where is democracy? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]] But do you tell me whether this is the Italian Parliament or what it is? What is this? Where is democracy? I invite you to think about where democracy lies. Every person here should have an examination of conscience, starting with me. I never exclude myself, because if I'm in here, I'm part of it. Each of us has a duty to make an examination of conscience and to understand the condition in which we put workers, our citizens, because you know what signal we give? That the dignity of the worker is for sale. It is for sale, because they give him 2,000-3,000 euros and that is his right. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But do we really want this? And then we all say that politics has lost credibility! I put the question to you on the contrary: why should it have credibility? Therefore, in Italy there is no investment because of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute. I spoke with many serious companies (but not as Renzi said: two years ago, eight months ago) and no company ever said that article 18 was a problem. Companies want access to credits, which you have denied them by your policies; they want innovation and research, which you have cut; they want a real industrial plan; they want an extraordinary plan on work; they don't want politics to be absent on these issues. This is what our entrepreneurs are asking for. They have never asked for Article 18. And then, I want to take a little thought, and I address my colleagues and some of the comrades of the Democratic Party: since I think no one can deny that this is the reform wanted by Sacconi and Ichino for years now, who, as I said, participate in the various governments according to their own gain, you, in all these years, where have you been? Why did you make the Italians lose ten years? What are you talking about? Think about what you have to do, think seriously, otherwise it is not enough, Madam President, with all due respect, it becomes a mockery, commemorating in here four workers who have died. If we are unable to ensure that workers can defend themselves against abuse, how can we put them in safe conditions? What do we commemorate them doing? What are we talking about? I'm actually having a hard time figuring that out. It's a joke. I tell my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement and my colleagues in the League. I did not know that our President, indeed your President, also had the power to read in his mind. We must be careful: he deletes the amendments because he implicitly thought that we would withdraw them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There's really nothing more to listen to in these classrooms. Seriously, I invite you not to make fun of the Italians. Let us get out of this House, let us really save our citizens the money, because there are three people in politics here, while we are here to practice it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must come here, and it must appear that it has been voted on or not voted on. Well, I'm not a member of parliament in practice. I, with all my limitations and flaws, want to be a Member of Parliament who represents that part that has believed in me and in our political action. I believe that we must all demand this; I believe that it is everyone's duty. demand it. So I appeal to all the people who have a shred of dignity, and I think there are so many in here. Let's not let them treat us like this, let's not let three people reform. Today we are having the general discussion and let us vent thinking: "that you speak as well, so know that everything you say will not be taken into consideration." [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]] Then we leave and we end up here. We have a duty to respect democracy and our Constitution, respecting the citizens who brought us here. As of today, I ask you, please, you must start with all those people a real political resistance to democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Everything else is chatter to the wind. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u22	I assure Senator Barozzino that the dignity of every senator and senator in this House is guaranteed by the election. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u23	We greet the pupils and students of the Institute including Via Cassia in Rome. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u24	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u25	Madam President, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, Senators and Senators, I am not at all ashamed of what I am doing. In fact, I should be ashamed if I didn't move forward on a reform plan that was necessary for this country. In such a delicate and important debate, I call on my colleagues to avoid invectives, insults and insults, and to respect the fact that there may be different positions in this country on certain subjects. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The difference in positions does not allow anyone to tell the other that he must be ashamed, because in telling the other to be ashamed he should feel ashamed for himself. Here there is no room, in such a delicate affair, for insults and invectives. I'm not ashamed, Minister... SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! Mr Pezzopane (PD). I'm not ashamed, colleagues. On the contrary, I am enthusiastically and passionately affronting the debate and the vote on this important measure, convinced that even in these hours, with the valuable work of the Government, the rapporteur and all of us, can be further improved. Because I believe in work that we can still do in these hours as we discuss. It has been an important experience that has been carried out by the Commission, and I am sorry that members of the Commission, who have also worked and have contributed, now give the debate and the work carried out a completely artifact, wrong and false idea. Frankly, the absurd and unfair polemics of these days are fading and impoverishing a good job, started on April 3, which involved all political forces, majority and minority, and all the social partners. We did hours and hours of listening and auditioning. I have had the opportunity and the good fortune, as a member of the Finance Committee, to participate in the drafting and work on tax delegation and, today, with the same commitment, I have dealt with the delegation at work in the Commission. Because this delegation is equally innovative, just as important, perhaps even more important, and it has a profoundly reformer system. I would therefore like to thank the President of the Commission, the Minister, Mr Bellanova, who has been with us at all meetings, listening and helping a debate process. And again, I thank our Parent Senator, our Parent, who has devoted herself so much to this work, and all my colleagues, even those who are throwing everything away today. The social expectations about our work are enormous. We started with a decree approved by the Government, already with important innovative content, and then, with the hearings, with the amendments, with the debate, with the agendas we specified and improved. Making all this commitment appear like an apocalyptic reduction of rights, not only is it false but it is also politically wrong. And I'm sure it will bring neither success nor electoral consensus to those who are doing it. In truth, the delegation carries out a reform of great innovative scope. We do not talk about this, we do not want to talk about it, we do not want to talk about it. You prefer invectives, insults, shame. You prefer to divide those in here among people who are among people and you don't know what: we are people who are among people, and that is why we are doing reform. If we weren't people among the people, we would close our eyes, ears and noses again, like the ruling classes of the past. That is what we must talk about: about merit and not absurd divisions. What are the real areas in which the delegation moves? The first is the reorganization of the discipline of social shock absorbers. And the reform rearranges it well, as it had to be rearranged for years. Secondly, there is a real reform of labour services and active policies. Of course we must make the National Agency: does it seem normal to you that with a job crisis, such as the one we live in, and with an immense, gigantic problem of cross-fertilization between supply and demand, we still have management carried out through fragmented employment centres, without a unified vision? In the third area, the reform puts forward and completes the process of simplifying work requirements and procedures, including by using new IT procedures and new techniques. The fourth point is the reorganization of current contractual forms of work. This too had to be done before. And if we don't have the courage to do that even now, we're not a ruling class worthy of that name. The fifth point is the strengthening of measures to support motherhood and the reconciliation of living and working time. This too had to be done before. And I feel like saying that because I have not been in Parliament for thirty-five years, but for just over a year, and I feel obliged to carry out this reform. On these objectives we have made further clarifications, with amendments and agendas, and also from the opposition have come suggestions and useful advice. For this reason it is useless and disappointing this minimalist approach, reductive of the scope of the delegation. As if from 3 April to today, we had worked to reduce the rights, instead of considering the courageous and important overall maneuver. Tips of ideology and unbearable fatiosity alternate with worrying underestimates of the social context and the profound changes that have taken place in recent years. Nothing is the same as before in the field of work. The Democratic Party has not only worked for months in the Commission, but has also faced a close confrontation in its leadership group, making it clear, also with the vote of the national direction, on which must be the direction of march. Our goal is to take serious action to change the labour market, which in our country is ineffective and discriminatory. We must create a labour market capable of extending rights and protection to those workers who do not have them today. Let us not close our eyes; let us not look at the problems of the country with its neck. Too many are abandoned to themselves: precarious, unemployed, distrusted, Cassaintegrate. There are highly protected workers, at the limits of corporateism, and workers without any protection. This should indignant us! The goal of the delegation of work is therefore to tell the government the things to do and the times in which to do them through the implementing decrees, within a scheme of overall reform of the system. There are a number of main objectives to be achieved: to extend labour rights to those who today do not have adequate rights and to universalise protection in unemployment; increase productivity by promoting the mobility of workers to jobs that meet their income and their potential. It is then right and important what has been done. We have put in place new instruments that are consistent with this objective. The delegation is starting a path that must quickly lead the Government and Parliament to fundamental acts. A significant objective is to build a wider network of social shock absorbers with adequate coverage, as we are engaged with amendments tabled by the Democratic Party, and to create shock absorbers aimed in particular at precarious workers, especially young people, with a guarantee of income for the unemployed, proportional to their contributory seniority; to this end it is obvious that additional resources must be identified in 2015. Then there is the reduction of contractual forms - a fundamental step - starting from the Italian unicum of co.co.pro. Within this framework is inserted the forecast of the new permanent employment contract with increasing protections: indeterminate time and increasing protections in the plural. That is the truth: not a reduction in rights, but rather an innovation that will certainly have positive effects. New contracts, indefinite term, plural protection and increasing; other than reduction of rights. Do you think a young man prefers a contract like this or a co.co.pro? Let us then act like people who are among the people and who know well that a young man prefers a contract like this to another or to those to whom we have accustomed them. And then new employment services, with a national dimension through the establishment of the Agency specializing in job supply and demand, which can act by integrating public, private and third sector operators. Not to mention, as we have included in the delegation, a reference to the current operators of the employment centers that, for the experience gained in the field, must be put in the conditions, within the current rules on competitions, to be able to have the possibility to continue their work within the new agency. And then, again, a discipline for economic dismissals that replaces the uncertainty and discretion of a judicial procedure with clarity instead of a certain and increasing economic compensation with seniority. The reinstatement must always be maintained for discriminatory and unjustified dismissals of a disciplinary nature. On this we must achieve a more appropriate balance, but it is precisely on this subject - and I am beginning to conclude - that the worst ideologies, apocalyptic claims have unleashed, and even - allow me - in the internal debate of the PD, grudges and revenge of the bad politics. We still find the best possible balance in these hours; we work as we have done in the Commission, without schemes and without ideologies. We avoid exaggerated crusades, which are incomprehensible especially for people (here recklessly cited) and for precarious and unemployed young people. The proxy serves the country, it serves those looking for work, it serves those who lose it and needs social shock absorbers that put it back in. The delegation also serves the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, who with his Government has put his face on this reform and needs to take it home to dialogue forcefully in Europe. These do not seem to me to be matters of little importance; they are matters which a ruling class must be able to complete. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u27	Madam President, in the meantime, I would be ashamed to make all the workers of the B series, as Mr Barozzino said. I would also like to echo the invitation he has made to listen to our conscience and to realize that we are here to protect our citizens and not to sell them. The discussion on Article 18 of the Workers' Statute developed in recent weeks, both in the political world and in the newspapers (where you like to develop it very much), is misleading with respect to the issue that should be at the heart of the political debate and above all of the action of the Government: the increasingly urgent need to create jobs in the face of unemployment that has reached almost 14% in its total and even 45% among the young, not to mention the eighteen. We should talk about how to attract investment, how to convince companies to invest in Italy; we should, I believe, intervene more effectively to remove the obstacles that prevent these investments: I am referring to the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, Camorra and other organised criminal organizations, but also to the corruption that, according to the latest data of the Court of Auditors, drains resources in our country for 60 billion euros. Let us realize where resources are to be wasted instead of cutting back on what should be a reality to be financed: schools and work. In short, you should enlarge the cake in order to obtain more slices and not try to get more portions from a cake that would remain, at best, of equal size and per se damned small. We are faced with a draft law that, as such, defines the general principles without entering into the discipline of detail; instead, when we talk about work, especially if we do a careful examination of Italian legislation in the last twenty years on this topic, increasingly focused on flexibility, the details are fundamental. It is precisely the extreme generality of the delegation, which many people have rightly called delegation in white, that is perplexed. The text of the draft delegation law refers to the permanent contract for increasing protections, but does not specify the type of protection to which it refers and how they will vary on the basis of the seniority of service. On this point, unfortunately, only hypotheses are made that, on the basis of the press reports in our possession, do not exaggerate to define to say the least incredible and chilling. According to some ANSA launches of recent days, the Government would be expecting the protections of article 18 to take off even ten years after hiring. On the subject, ladies and gentlemen, not only is there our fair reverence, but there is a split of the majority and also of the Democratic Party. There is objectively insuffering, as widely documented by what happened in the national leadership of the PD held last Monday. On the subject there is total confusion. In the majority, some members of the New Right Centre argue that the new contract should provide for reinstatement only for discriminatory dismissal and exclude reinstatement in the event of dismissal for economic reasons, which is completely replaced by monetary compensation. Within the Democratic Party itself, the fracture is between those who wish, from a certain length of service, that the new contract also maintains the reintegration of the worker in the event of dismissal (without due cause) and those who, on the other hand, claim that the new contract should concern the reinstatement provided for in the current Article 18 only for discriminatory dismissals occurring in companies with more than 15 employees and not in other cases, such as dismissals for economic reasons. On this point I agree with what has rightly been said: it is no longer known what happened to the left. Beyond the legislative details that the Government will want to give to the contract for increasing protections, I invite you to pay due attention to the inconsistencies that would arise between the new legislation and the measures already in force, approved by the Government last May, with which fixed-term contracts have been liberalised, making them a kind of trial period of three years. [[Applause from Senator Catalfo]] Therefore, there are already up to five renewals over three years, without companies having to specify the causes of these extensions. If the growing protection contract becomes law - and I am sorry that Mrs Pezzopane, who exalts him so much, has left the Chamber - in order to prevent a young person from being hired first for a total of three years in term, with five contracts lasting six months each, and then having to start a new employment relationship with the contract to increasing protections, it will be necessary to put back hand to this first measure of the Renzi Government, unless you intend to insecure and savagely flexible the labour market, intention which, frankly, you can already guess from the attempt to abolish Article 18. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that a labour market of this kind, apart from the instrumental proclamations, would really be B-series, highly dequalifying and alienating to workers, people who have invested daily in their professional preparation and who have families to maintain, in a very different way from most people who have been sitting in very comfortable armchairs for years and who have never experienced what it means to fight to win and defend the job. If workers are to be fully respected, the current fixed-term contract should be reduced in its use and limited to specific circumstances such as seasonal demand for work or, at the limit, the organisation of temporary events and events. Colleagues, a worker should therefore be prevented from being exploited for three years under a fixed-term contract before accessing the next contract to increasing safeguards which, accompanied by uncertainties about cover for the possible single unemployment benefit, makes planning his or her life increasingly complicated. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] Mr Renzi tries to condone the citizens with his oratory and claims that they believe in trust: he does so when he vaguely talks about a contract of increasing protections and does so also when he announces, equally vaguely, to the national leadership of the PD that in the next law of stability will be made available one and a half billion euros for the new social shock absorbers, without specifying what these figures are and, if these figures really were made available, such as the probable cover-ups. The Premier and his Government suffer from "announcements" rather than the role of the good family father, they play that of the snake enchanter: they need to make us believe that everything is changing, and then find ourselves in a few months or a few years to realize that nothing has changed at all. This is the greatest symptom of their weakness and impotence, of their inadequacy to govern. After for years you have exploited the right to work enshrined in our Constitution to give you political consent and to guarantee you rents of power, let's ask ourselves how many Italian companies today have more than 15 employees and what the real scope of Article 18 is today. The real urgency to which we should all give immediate answers is only one: job creation, which can only be achieved by lowering taxation on businesses and investing in research and innovation. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u29	Madam President, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted strongly in favour of this measure which has come before the House today in the Commission and I would like to share with you the reasons behind my support for the entire delegation law, which is intended to reform the work system in our country. Firstly, contrary to what Senator Barozzino said, I believe that this delegation contains clear signs of reform proper to the best European reformisms and progressiveisms. Already the titles of delegation can rightly represent the cornerstones of progressive labour policies: social shock absorbers, labour services and active policies, reordering employment relationships, supporting motherhood and reconciling living and working times. A reform, therefore, of the entire work system that comes even after an emergency intervention, such as Decree-Law No. 34 which Parliament converted into law a few months ago and which testifies that the topic of work is central to the agenda of this Government. We have to ask ourselves questions, in a country where the unemployment rate is now 13%, where the youth rate is over 40, and in some regions like mine, or in some regions of the Mezzogiorno, we are now 60%. With a historically one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, we obviously have a number of labour-related problems: access to work, its stabilisation, but also legal certainty and simplification and, above all, the expansion of the employment base. There are two interests at stake, of which the delegation takes into account and keeps in perfect balance: in the delegation, one meets the needs of those who lend it, but also those of those who create it. We are in a phase of overcoming a cultural problem and a mistaken belief that enterprise is the place that exploits work. Small and medium-sized enterprises in our country are the backbone of the economy and an essential source of entrepreneurial skills, innovation, economic and social cohesion, as well as the source of the labour market. The fall of businesses and entrepreneurial potential certainly determines the fall of jobs because that's where they come from. We need another climate of commitment, sharing and co-responsibility among all stakeholders. The delegation plant tries to deal with these needs and issues by putting in place elements of simplification and legal certainty in support of the investment activity of entrepreneurs taking on the risk of enterprise (but in the uncertainty and the marasm of the cavities certainly do not find comfort in this investment action), but also measures for income support and the reform of social shock absorbers aiming at a universalization of rights and the construction of a fairer and fairer system. Therefore, a whole new system of labour market reform that if for the most sceptical might not lead to the creation of new jobs, certainly affects the quality of that job and fills the skills and quality deficits by investing in human capital. Stabilising work, extending protection and supporting income are not only instruments of solidarity and equity, but become economic parameters in all respects capable of restarting consumption and demand. We therefore overcome the contradictions of the past and build a labour market that looks at the synergy between employers and workers and no longer at their opposition. Unfortunately, this has been a vision which in the past (but also today) has led us to consider the protection of labour, above all as protection of the workplace, and which leads us to neglect another more important thing, namely that the safest protection of labour takes place through the efficiency of the labour market. In twenty years in our country there have been four attempts to reform in which we have failed to address the issue in its complexity and to aim for the efficiency of the work system. Contrapositions, conflictual visions have always taken on a decisive role and have meant that attention was focused on individual dismissals and on the radical defence of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, preventing reforms from flying high and taking on a broader character. If even this time someone has put in place the attempt to reduce the reform to an ideological dispute and to turn it into a derby on Article 18, this time it has wrong place, ways and times. In this House today and in the next few days I hope that we will discuss the merits of the measures that have been expected for decades to extend protection to those who do not have them and the measures that will simplify access to work. This, Senator Barozzino, is not the place of the vent but a high place of discussion, which follows an equally high moment of discussion which took place in the Commission... BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). In the papers! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Spilabotte, address the Chamber. Mr Spilabotte (PD). ...in the course of the work in which you took part. Let us talk about social shock absorbers and their reform, a crucial and essential point, because extending economic support to all workers who do not have them today is the real innovation compared to the current system. Extending protection to all has a cost: resources that can be found through the reorganization of the extraordinary IGC and by way of derogation, which up to now have represented a real black hole in the budgets of the State and which have absorbed countless resources. Moreover, the establishment of the National Agency for Employment and the establishment of training and relocation services throughout the territory will ensure that no one is ever left alone in the face of the tragedy of job loss or the search for that job. That's the real news. In the same way, the establishment of the contract of increasing protection for new recruits is good news - I would say good news - for young people in this country, on which one of the highest rates of youth unemployment rests. Providing a permanent contract with increasing safeguards also means intervening in the protection of workers as from Article 18. However, it should be stressed that the reinstatement in the event of discriminatory and disciplinary dismissal has never been in question. If we do not act on that contract to make it appealing again, we risk carrying on for the next ten years still injustice, inequality and inequality. Today, if we look at stock data, 80% of employment relationships are settled by permanent contract, but if we look at flows, the new contracts in recent years are only 15%, while they are the master, for 68-70 percent, the fixed time, the VAT number, the false VAT consignments, the co.co.co. and the co.co.pros, who employ millions of workers with few rights and no protection, of which so far no one has dealt and for which no one has made his voice heard. It is a contradiction that the bill delegates attempts to resolve and overcome. Therefore, I hope that this measure will conclude its process quickly, in the form and balance that we have found, because I have an unshakable faith in the idea that this country can give a perspective to young people only with the contract of permanent employment, that it can give them certainties and make the new generations grow in an idea of dignity and autonomy. We, with this measure, are called upon to give them the necessary tools. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u31	Madam President, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to speak in this debate on the draft law on labour delegation and, in particular, on Article 18 of the Staff Regulations, the subject of which seems to have monopolised the debate both in this House and in the media. I believe it is undeniable that the intervention that the Government intends to make on Article 18 is based on an assumption, namely that the increase in the flexibility entering and leaving the labour market is an element that allows the labour market itself to restart and, therefore, with him, the whole economy. Well, I ask the Minister if he can actually give us data in support of this hypothesis, because if that is true, then I can also justify an intervention on Article 18. I believe that the Minister is in fact able to give us information on this aspect of the matter, because there is a public research body - the ISFOL - which the Minister is sure to know, as well as all colleagues who are part of the Commission, as well as many of the other colleagues present in this House. For those who, however, do not know this initial, as well as for the citizens who are following us, I make a brief premise on what ISFOL is. ISFOL is a public research body, the Institute for the Development of Vocational Training of Workers, supervised by the Ministry of Labour. This institute is active in the field of labour training and social policies, with a view to contributing to employment growth, improving human resources, social inclusion and local development. ISFOL carries out and promotes study, research, experimentation, documentation, information and evaluation activities on labour policies. Therefore, the ISFOL is a public research body that is used - or should be used - by the Ministry of Labour to evaluate precisely the labour policies that the Ministry itself promotes. I ask you, Minister, do you know if the ISFOL has spoken on this very aspect of the matter? Do you know if that institution has conducted a study on flexibility and its impact on the improvement of the labour market? The answer is yes. Last year, ISFOL published a report entitled 'Labour Market, Human Capital and Business': a perspective of labour policy, on whose front page, Minister, both in paper and electronic format, appears the symbol of its Ministry, which commissioned that study. Ladies and gentlemen, do we want to go see what this study says? The ISFOL report returns important elements related to labour market developments in relation to reforms, skills in the professions, contracts and business development. The comparative analysis of this study examines models from different European countries, but particular importance takes on some typical situations of the current Italian context, in particular the conditions for which Italian companies have lost competitive capacity, and how this decline in the ability to produce wealth has affected the labour market, in fact penalising the defined employment of good quality. That is why we have at our disposal an instrument produced by researchers, Minister (we are talking about an independent public research body, linked to international research on labour policies). Well, the liberalisation and disproportionate use of fixed-term contracts - I am quoting a summary of the report - (or other temporary forms of contract), introduced with a view to providing greater flexibility to a labour market that is actually rigid and durable - this is recognised - have, in fact, reduced the protection for certain types of workers, without improving the value of the production of enterprises, nor even produced significant savings in the cost of labour. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that we have seen this liberalization in Italy for a number of years now. We already know, for example, that Article 18 itself has been the subject of the Fornero reform, and it is no longer what we knew as it came out of the 1970 law. Therefore, this comparative study is based on data that has been taken throughout this period and the conclusions reached are reported with knowledge of the cause, because we already have evidence. We read in the text that the pervasive spread of forward contracts that has occurred in our country seems to have exasperated the fragility of the productive fabric, insofar as the instability of employment has discouraged the accumulation of professional skills, the valorization of human resources in the internal labour markets and the investment in new technologies. This is the result of the pervasive spread of time contracts, Minister, which you are proposing. [[Applause from Senator Catalfo]] Let's keep reading. In clear language, the volume deals empirically with the relationship between the reduction of job protection for forward contracts and the evolution of productivity dynamics. The question is: if the loss of efficiency that has been accompanied by the pervasive spread of fixed-term contracts has not produced substantial positive effects for employment growth, why continue on this path? And if this paradox is now a typical assumption of the Italian context, why is the sphere of intervention so far activated to reduce it so limited? Well, then we are in the presence, Minister, of a report by a body supervised by your Ministry which tells us that persevering on this path of flexibility will not at all cause the revival of the labour market. But this report, Minister, goes even further. It also suggests a so-called exit strategy. What should be done to improve the competitiveness of our businesses? What should be done to restart the labour market? Well, this is dealt with in as many as three chapters of this report. The empirical analysis, and here I read from the conclusions of the report, identifies good quality enterprises in those companies that employ a high proportion of educated workers [[Applause from Senators Catalfo and Fattori]] ; those firms which invest in vocational training, those undertakings which limit the use of atypical forms of contract, those undertakings which compete on international markets, which have high labour productivity and are managed by graduate entrepreneurs. On the contrary, the low average level of education of the entrepreneurial class and the dominant presence of family property in managerial decisions tends to weaken the productive and income potential of companies. Here we begin to outline the picture of possible solutions. The report continues: the education of entrepreneurs - yes, Minister, we talk about the education of entrepreneurs - above all, is a fundamental factor in the willingness to invest in innovation and to make personnel management choices that value the human capital of workers over a medium and long-term horizon. In other words, the presence of a graduate entrepreneur reduces the propensity of companies to hire with fixed-term contracts and thus puts an end to the negative effects of precarious work. Not only that: the employer's education significantly affects business vocational training policies both through individual channels and through agglomeration effects. In short, what emerges from the joint reading of chapters 6, 7 and 8 of this report, which I remind you of was commissioned by its Ministry, is that the demographic profile of entrepreneurs is a crucial aspect for the growth of the productive system and the development of the labour market, especially in an economy such as Italy characterized by the prevalence of small companies and family property. Assuming that the characteristics and patterns of behaviour of the entrepreneurial class are exogenous is therefore a serious limitation for economic and labour policy. Do you understand, Minister, what needs to be done to restart the labour market? And I am not the one to say it: it is a study commissioned by your Ministry to a public research agency, which, among other things, in 2012, the Government prior to what you belong tried, by chance, to suppress. It is an institution that your Government, with the law of delegation so-called jobs act, is trying to suppress because with the creation of the Employment Agency that has been discussed in this House is also foreseen (it is true the text of the measure we do not yet have it, but from the indiscretions it is evident) the abolition of the ISFOL and the passage of all its researchers in this agency. Who knows why we want to suppress this public research agency; it will never be because it has, and will perhaps carry out in the future, reports on labour policy that are uncomfortable for this Government? 11:14 a.m. (Follows BOCCHINO). Relationships that deny the main assumption on which this reform is based that you are carrying out? Is that why you want to suppress it? Well, Minister, I would like to conclude with a suggestion that I give you very quietly and quietly. I know you're looking for cover, it's a billion and a half to fund social shock absorbers. Of course, with the reform of Article 18 that you are pursuing there is a new wave of redundancies and you, rightly from your point of view, are looking to find this billion and a half to increase, rightly, the social shock absorbers. Minister, I suggest you leave Article 18 alone, take this billion and a half and give it to your colleague Giannini, Minister for Education, to invest it in research and education. You'd make a better look for her and her government, and she'd make the whole country do it! [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u33	Madam President, the Minister will excuse me if I reply immediately to Senator Bocchino, who is my colleague from the Commission: I simply believe that this Government agrees (and is the most convinced Government) in investing in research and education. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I welcome the invitation made by Senator Bocchino as a political part, but we are already in this perspective; then, where the resources should be taken, the Government will establish it, even if we know where the resources for education will be taken from. Senator Bocchino knows how much we care about education, on which we have also launched specific policies. I therefore believe that we have little to learn about this. To get into this, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, today we are facing a crossroads. Too long we believed that the crisis we are going through was a cyclical crisis, that over time would be overcome, as indeed happened in the past. On the other hand, it is quite clear that we are facing a systemic crisis, a crisis that requires structural responses and that is what we are trying to give. We are dealing with this scenario with the measures put in place by the Government, therefore intervening in the key areas, because this is a measure that must be framed in the general context of the reforms that the Government is putting in place, and that Parliament is examining, in areas ranging from public administration to fiscal policies, from justice to school and public research, essential for the Government and especially for those of us who are directly concerned with it, on which we intervene with the necessary determination that must be put in place at the crucial moments of the history of the Nations. This is in fact a crucial moment, a dramatic moment that we all live with great concern. It is in this context that the proposal for a law on labour market reform, which we are called upon to debate today, is part of this. This is an essential part of the reform process put in place by the Renzi Government. Addressing this issue requires, above all, a very secular approach, an approach that has a clear objective to achieve, namely the interests of young workers and not only young people, who at this time need to build a structure that can guarantee employment opportunities, but also to restore or give for the first time that social protection that makes every democracy worthy because it guarantees the same rights to all. If this is lost, in the heart of the proposal that the Minister and the Government are moving forward, I think there is little understanding of the profound objective of this reform. To do this it is therefore necessary to have to the full the awareness of the gravity of the moment we are going through and a sense of responsibility that must overcome particularisms and irresponsible corporatisms. That is precisely what I would like to address. Already, this term, 'corporativism', which I think was used not by chance by the President of the Republic (interview on the subject), then, for obscure reasons, if you have noticed, has disappeared, as a citation, from the chronicles of so much our press country, in favour of a term, reported instead by everyone and of far less impact, which is that of 'conservativeism', more subtle, if we think about it, and also with a certain aura of dignity. This is an observation that I shared with Senator Zavoli, who pointed it out to me, and I believe that words, especially for people like him who have worked with words and who are our teachers in their use, make sense. Instead, I will speak exactly of corporatism and not of conservatism, which has this aura of a certain dignity. I must say that these are really corporate attacks, those that we have noticed, attacks that would have no reason to be if only one had at heart for a moment the future of our country and not the interests of partisan, if one had as priority the idea of activating mechanisms that could allow us to get out of the situation of economic immobilism, of lack of investment and of total stalemate of the business world. We have very clear data, we read them well and it is unbearable to continue to hear from many parts the usual history of the government, the President of the Council and the lack of in-depth discussion of Ministers with respect to their proposals. We will have the opportunity to hear Mr Poletti, we will have the opportunity to hear - I am not overreacted with this and you know me in this House - how deep there can be in a proposal that becomes cultural, a new direction, a serious reform proposal, because that is what we are trying to do with the reform of the labour market when we look at it. Of course, I know that it is not enough to loosen the protection provided for in Article 18 in order to raise the economy, we know that (but it is a fact that the debate unfortunately has focused only on this aspect), but if this serves, if it can serve even a small part, well come, since the damage is not that horrifying damage that has been heard everywhere and in all the locations in these days and weeks. I know perfectly well that the reasons why we do not invest in Italy must be sought, as well as in a certain rigidity of the labour market also in what is at the heart of our tragedy: corruption. We need to talk about this, about corruption, about the mafia, about the Camorra, about the burden of tax on companies because of the very serious tax evasion. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what happened yesterday in the Council of Ministers, in relation to what has been defined. Minister Padoan explained to the Council the contents of the Report on the implementation of strategies to combat tax evasion on the results achieved in 2013 and the current year. This report, which must be presented as provided for in Decree-Law No 66 on urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice, do you remember? See how everything is finally held), it is important because we will examine it and on the basis of it we will provide the government with the guidelines for combating lawlessness, corruption, the inefficient use of public resources, as well as tax evasion. These issues are at the heart of the government's action and it is clear that we will intervene strongly on them and the government will do so despite what is said by many parties. So, it's a government that deals with everything. We know that there is not only Article 18; the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, is well aware of this because he has been dealing with these issues for a long time and we know about the PD that we have been working hard and very much involved in this reform. So I am well aware that the billions lost in tax evasion are an important cause of our disaster, but I also know that all actions must be put into place in an organic way, all together. Colleagues, in this Parliament, in each House and at this historic moment, we have a duty to put in place a considerable amount of reforms. Of course it is difficult, of course it is complicated, but there is a strategy that needs to be grasped, and I completely disagree with those who talk about spot speeches - unfortunately some of my party too - which do not have their own coherence. Perhaps, if you were to study a little, if even someone who thought they had already understood everything, would study better, maybe he would even be able to grasp this strategy. Therefore, these measures must go together, on several fronts and in an organic way. That means ruling. Governing is exactly this: putting in place a number of options, making them come true and of course taking responsibility for what you do. Every minister knows that he and the President of the Council have responsibility for his own area of competence. So actions to be put on the field all together with great effort and great effort. We're here, sitting on these benches exactly to do this. This also applies to the reform of the labour market, which convinces me - I want to reiterate - of which only one part emerges, the conflict, Article 18 - and not the heart of the reform, a new way of considering social shock absorbers and the attempt to intervene in a world, that of work, characterized by similar situations that are resolved for some with the maximum of social protection and for others with nothing. We are in the presence of nothing in relation to protection for certain sectors, for certain people and for certain areas. Do we have to put an end to this? It is nothingness, abandonment to oneself or, as far as young people are concerned, to the great heart of families, when they are there, to represent social protection. The Renzi Government is moving in this direction and it is not credible that this is not grasped, the heart of the reform: screams and voices whispered once again do not fail, never fail, but those we are used to and we would be sorry if it did not happen; the voices of attack on democracy, according to which we attack democracy. It is a story that is repeated and you have staged it not more than a few weeks ago on the occasion of constitutional reform, and with great consistency you represent it every time you are made an attempt to move government actions in the crucial areas, without paying too much attention to those consolidated interests of part that punctually present the account, trying to lock up in the enclosure of the attack on the Democratic Republic, the rights of people as well as the rights of freedom anyone, in this case the Government, present a free point of view and a different interpretation, perhaps much more online than Europe. But who cares about Europe: we are in this context but we can do without it. [[Comments of Senator Marton]] The reforms are being asked of us by Europe and we are trying to put them on the table. You try, without success, of course, to relegate this reform into the magma of the dark destabilizing designs, as some important press has tried to do, perhaps calling us Masonics and Piduists. So much so that you get lost writing these things. I wonder, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if it would not be the time to address - but the Senate is doing so and has done so very seriously in the Commission - a debate on the subject by trying to give the right value to the issues, without exasperating them and above all by activating the constructive spirit that generally produces good results. The game must be played and we try to play it all together well, so we have the result that Italy is waiting for us. This is the meaning and value of the comparison between us. Of course, I also had some painful passages for my experience, since I was a historical member of the CGIL, I was also territorial manager of the sector occupying universities and scientific research. I would have liked another reaction, I would have liked a little more serenity, but so much so; there are interests that confront each other. I want to use the term "compare" and not "discount" because at this moment Italy does not need clashes but responsible people, as we are, who speak to build. I quote from the debate we had within the leadership of our party a couple of days ago: positions need to be compared and taken up some of the comments. The same goes for the other parties. There is a need for confrontation because the clash, the recent and ancient contradictions and the old claims are of no use to anyone: we must act in the interests of young people, of work and of Italy. According to OECD forecasts, the unemployment rate has increased considerably. You've all read the ISTAT data released yesterday. We really need to do good, too, because I don't think that making reforms is always useful: reforms can be good and bad. And I agree with that. We are discussing a good reform, which we can certainly improve. And in our debate this is happening. We are still working within the Commission, contributing with amendments to accept the right and useful ones, trying to be serious, without losing the context in which this reform takes place. We can do this seriously, as we are used to doing. Of course, my party, the PD, is at the forefront of this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u34	There is a representation of students from the Institute of Higher Education in Alatri, in the province of Frosinone, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u35	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, there are dozens of companies in Italy every day that close day by day because they cannot bear the burden of the crisis. One in two young people is out of work. The level of exposure owed to the banks of our companies is among the highest in Europe. Consumption is still: there is recession and deflation. The only point of keeping is once again the savings of families, the courage of our entrepreneurs, the will of small family businesses to preserve and carry forward that heritage that fathers and grandparents have created, to carry them forward with the total commitment of personal forces and family members, to carry them forward also through the commitment of the financial reserves created in the years that entrepreneurial work made. I believe that a serious discussion at work should start with this. We must extend the protection for those who do not have it through a massive economic investment. We need to simplify the jungle of contracts, making it easier to meet demand and supply on the labour market. And, above all, we must create a path whereby we gradually shift economic resources from passive to active policies in order to restart our economy. The law-law has the merit of improving social shock absorbers, simplifies some procedures and introduces the principle of the progressiveness of protections, similar in this to the most modern countries. That is to say, it takes some steps in the direction we want, but it does not, in my opinion, take all the necessary steps. It takes more effort, more courage to build an effective and modern system and to restart the labour market. For example, the National Employment Agency, which should be a logical institution in a modern and industrialised country, is expected to be an EU obligation by 2017 at the latest. There is hope that this Agency will also be able to carry out its work. We hope that it will be able to meet demand and supply, focusing above all on young people and apprenticeships. The German model, which is so much talked about, is based on a territorial structure of its agencies, agencies that also control the behaviour of the unemployed to find out if they are really looking for work or if they are enjoying the benefits of the social system. And then there's the apprenticeship. The previous measure improved it, but it is still insufficient. We must create an even closer link between work, compulsory and public vocational training and school. In the Province of Bolzano we have established and successfully experimented with a model in which young people pass from the workplace to the public and compulsory vocational school, for the apprentice who wants to reach a qualification and the young person who wants, after his apprenticeship, to cover a qualified job. Our system works because it involves a strong role for individuals in its management and organisation, a collaboration between companies, workers and trade unions, between public administration and private initiatives. On this subject we must return even more forcefully. Let us not waste this opportunity. In Germany, the number of people employed by apprenticeships is ten times higher than in Italy. In Italy we have 50,000 apprentices, in Germany 500,000. Are we only a tenth of the population? No. Do we have less young people in Italy? No. Is there no desire to work? I don't think so. Then there must be a mistake in the system. Isn't it? A system that not only leaves no room for the qualifications of young people, but also does not give the opportunity to work for those who would like to do so. For example, family members who want to help their parents or relatives with occasional work are subject to sanctions and penalties that are imaginable in no other European State. In this regard, I want to see if there's any desire to change. Let us see if there is a desire to make work flexible and to encourage and support small businesses. I have tabled an agenda on this subject. I have also tabled an agenda for the recognition of the legality of neighbouring contracts. The company agreements, the proximity contracts - for those who know the German system - are precisely the strength of this system; we have seen and see daily the positive effect of German employment. The INPS, the INAIL, the Revenue Agency would be good to do as well by recognizing the institute already provided by Article 8 of Decree-Law No 138 of 2011. Then there is another aspect of the delegation law that the Minister underlined in a letter to the "Avvenire": the measures for reconciling living and working time. Minister, we are all called today to give Italy a truly modern system, in which people are at the centre; a system that can create opportunities for the deserving, for all those who want to do and work, and that gives value to those who commit themselves and to those who produce. That is why we must not be afraid to intervene on Article 18; a provision with a negative effect on employment. I know companies that have 13 or 14 employees and do not do any other hiring even if they need it, because they fear the ambiguity of the rules and are afraid to incur sanctions. A distrust that is overcome by clearer rules, taking into account the real conditions of certain labour markets. Politics and trade unions in the last twenty years have made a lot of mistakes, creating a system that increased the distance between guaranteed and unsafe and did not help companies to hire. The crisis has made the inadequacy of this system dramatically evident. Today we can guarantee labour law only if we are able to help companies not to be afraid, not to fear that with every contract entered into, due to the immensity of rules, laws even contradictory between them, 46 types of contracts and a frightening number of supervisory and control bodies, there is already around the corner the lawyer and the labour judge. It is time to create certainty and transparency. It is time to give security to those who work and to those who work. That is why we need to move more and more resources from passive policies to active ones in order to attract investment and promote the employment of young people. In Italy we spend 500 million on this, when we invest 9 billion a year in Germany. We must encourage all those who want to do, young people who have a good idea and who want to try to put it into practice, especially in our economic sectors. It would be enough €20,000-30,000 for each initiative, but too often they find the doors of closed banks; the credit institutions, instead, must return to their original mission and help the territory to grow, giving credit to those who have ideas, talent and desire to do. The experience of our territories teaches us that there are economies that need a high level of flexibility that cannot in any way be exchanged for precariousness. In agriculture, for example, the number of people to be employed may vary from day to day, not because of the will of an employer, but because there is a need from evening to morning to proceed with the harvest. This happens especially with high quality crops. The flexibility of employment systems, the certainty and transparency of contracts, the safety of those who work and work represent our position as self-employed and we will make our contribution to carrying out the draft delegation law under consideration. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u37	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u38	Madam President, first of all I would like to respond to some of the statements made by Senator Di Giorgi, who said that one or two months ago we were talking about an attack on democracy by talking about constitutional reform. Well, we will continue to do so, because that is an attack on democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, these things cannot be said in such a casual way by talking about other matters. Furthermore, perhaps the measure we are discussing is a partial attack, not on democracy, but on citizens, which is even worse, because the citizens are the ones who should be represented by a democratic system, since we are a representative democracy. When you put the cart in front of the oxen, that is, you talk about flexibility in the labour market, you should first guarantee people an income and perhaps think that when we make mistakes, changing the order, the product changes very much: if we had previously envisaged an income guarantee scheme, that famous citizenship income that we have always asked for, maybe we could have talked about flexibility, but not so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the mistake you have to put in your head. You have to understand why, if you don't understand this, you don't understand ABC, but maybe many people in here have never worked under master, let's say so. I have also been a freelancer and I have never had a master, because in my little one I have always been a master of myself, but we should put ourselves in the shoes of people; otherwise we do not do a service. Then it is said that Europe asks for it; Europe asks for so many things, but you only take what you like; what you do not like you never take. You also said the press is attacking you. It takes fur on the stomach to make such statements, considering the presence of the Government in the various news. Let's see what the government's weight is in the tgs and then see if the press attacks you or licks your bottoms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, I've been digressing a bit and I apologize; we're going back to the jobs act. For those who didn't know, since there are people who aren't in here and who maybe listen to us from outside, there are five delegations in the bill under consideration. My colleagues in the Commission - some of whom have spoken and some of whom will speak - will be much more involved than I am. So I want to thank them for the work they have done, also because they have told us in the Group all the details of what is contained in the bill. We have serious unemployment problems, just to give a few numbers. I am southern, and unemployment is endemic to us, and unemployment is needed, because it is easier to gain consensus. This is why unemployment is endemic to us, because unemployment leads to consensus, which is why we are dealing with ancient problems. And we always talk about this blessed article 18, when in fact the people protected by this article are by now few. This creates a beautiful smoke screen, although unfortunately there are few people protected by Article 18. Let us remember, however, that this article provides protection for layoffs without just cause, which seems obvious and banal. However, I do not want to dwell any further on this subject, which will be discussed by other Members. Perhaps we should reason on what we say and ask ourselves what our problem is. We have unemployed people and we must therefore create jobs. That would be the focal point of the debate, and yet we are always thinking about how companies can more easily hire workers. Perhaps we need to understand that an industrial policy is needed to create jobs. I do not know how many years we have been talking only in vain about industrial policy, without ever going into the matter. The government should explain to us its industrial policy, what it thinks, how it wants to change Italy and what vision it has of this country: if the vision is the one described with the 140 characters of a tweet, it seems to me that we are really bad. To write such a thing would perhaps take some extra character, but we are now used to the tweets with which our President of the Council announces us the draft laws and decree-laws, even if we have to wait fifteen days to get the text. Looks like we're in bad shape. However, let us take some concrete examples, otherwise we do not understand each other. We are talking about transport: in Berlin the ETR 1000 train was presented, designed by Ansaldo Breda - then by Finmeccanica - which is said to be a gem. Well, we sell Ansaldo Breda and Ansaldo STS. So what is our transport policy? What do we want to do for the sectors that produce the means of transport? Do we have a vision? Do we still want to compete on this market or do we leave it in the hands of other countries? On the other hand, we have learned that the largest railway company in the world, the Chinese one, has made the beautiful offer of 1.5 billion euro cash, to buy Ansaldo Breda and Ansaldo STS. The Chinese have $4,000 billion in foreign currency and they're buying us apart. What are we going to sell? Just the companies in those sectors where we're good and we could compete. But instead of competing, what do we do? We are in a liquidity crisis and we sell these very companies. We're selling Italian industry to pieces! And then you want to create a job? But how the hell do you want to create this job? Do we have any idea how we're gonna do this? We sold 40% of Ansaldo Energia to Chinese Shanghai Electric. To whom have we sold Terna and Snam through the Bank deposits and loans? To the Chinese State Grid Corporation of China. Let's get this straight! Where do we want to go? What's the strategy? This is what concerns transport, but we can talk about what has happened in a sector such as renewable energy: Germany had a long vision and at the end of the 1990s, wanting to invest on photovoltaics, first started the industry that produces the plants and then granted incentives to install them. Thanks to this, Germany was a bomb. When the energy bill started in Italy - we are talking about photovoltaics - 85% of the panels and inverters produced in Europe came from Germany and so we bought the products from the Germans. Then perhaps the Germans had a broader vision? Were they smarter than us? Yet Italy was a leader in the photovoltaic sector, producing 3.5 megawatts of peak (for those who love numbers) in 1993, but in 2000 it produced 0.5, we abandoned the sector. What is the vision of this blessed country? I think we are really in a bad place and we should be able to understand: Minister Guidi once came to talk about steel, but do we know a few numbers about this sector? Italy imports 12 million tonnes of iron ore and five million steel scrap. In Italy we are good in some sectors, for example in the processing of steels or in the manufacture of tubes. We are very good at making the diving pipes and we have one of the best companies in the world in this field that is Saipem; but we sell it, we want to sell another piece, yet it is the only company owned by an oil company that makes the pipes underwater, the other two are private companies not connected. Saipem is an Italian excellence, it is the company that must realize the Interconnector, the gas pipeline that passes under the Channel. I can't tell if we can have a vision, because the real problem is that we don't have a vision. The Government, for example in the decree unblocks Italy, speaks of oil drilling, of increasing the import of gas, so the vision that the Government gives me seems to me to be brontosaurus, because Guidi and Renzi really seem two brontosaurus, despite the young age; maybe Renzi could publish a nice tweet with the written: "Wilma, pass me the clava" so it would really show who it is. Let us make it clear that we must intervene in order to have a vision of this country that is based not only on how to flexibleise the offer of work, but on the identification of the path that we must take. Perhaps we should undertake, as Senator Bocchino said, the path of formation, or a path on nanotechnology, on everything that represents the future. If we have this courage, fine. If we don't have it, let's all get out of here, maybe we'll all be Germans. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). What strategic structures! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u39	Madam President, I believe that we are having an important debate these days and weeks on a decisive issue for so many people, for so many Italian citizens and for so many young people, but I think it is important that this debate remains on the substance of the issues and on the substance of the proposal that the Commission is working with the delegation law. I believe that this debate must start with reality and not ideologies, that it must become a confrontation between different positions, all legitimate, but by clarifying between us that there is not, as I have heard in this House, those who defend the work and those who do not. There are no people who want to take away the rights and those who want to defend them. There is no proposal for a social butcher's shop in question. We are discussing a concrete proposal, which I would avoid caricatures and I would rather start with reasons and objectives. A debate on this has served and served, because it has already produced improvements in the Commission and in the subsequent debate, including within my party. In this country, there are nine million people working on precarious contracts. I'd like us to leave here because no one said that. These are people who have no certainty, have no protection, are fired without any protection from Article 18. Only 16% of new recruits have an indefinite contract. There is an obvious injustice in this country. There is an important part of workers who have no protection, which is precarious, which has conditions of protection other than other workers. I believe that defending the present situation is unfair, especially wrong with regard to precarious workers. For us the priority is this: not to leave these workers alone, to reform the labour market so as not to leave these workers alone, to reform the system of social shock absorbers and protections so as not to leave these workers alone. I do not know whether this reform will produce more jobs. It certainly needs more; it needs many of the proposals that Senator Cioffi and others have spoken about, but the government is making them and will make them. But surely this reform will create more social justice. I know that this will be the case because the issue - whether reading the delegation or listening to the Minister - is not to remove the protections but to extend them, to give more certainty and more security to workers and businesses, yes, also to businesses, workers and businesses together. Only together with a pact between producers can the economy and employment be restarted in this country. The idea of reproducing a constant conflict between capital and labour is antihistorical. From my part, to the North, in Lombardy where there are many small and medium-sized companies the interest of workers and many entrepreneurs coincides; they are on the same boat and so they feel. It is a question - and I think it is clear that this is one of the objectives of the bill of delegation - of reforming social shock absorbers, of extending protection to all workers, not only to that half of workers with permanent contracts. Senator Bocchino, the government intends to find the resources for this. Making a caricature explaining that the extra resources are used to grant social shock absorbers to the fired that will produce this law means, at least (and I am surprised because you participated in the discussion), not having understood what is written. We are discussing the possibility of extending social shock absorbers to precarious contracts and those for which today that protection is not provided and the additional resources (which we are looking for) serve this - we do not trivialize the reasoning - aware that extending to all social shock absorbers, not leaving people who lose their jobs even if they have a term contract or a precarious contract is an extraordinary innovation. The possibility of being taken over by the State in the event of loss of employment is extended. I don't understand how you don't see the value of this. I don't understand how I don't see it who has explained to us - even recently - that we have to put on the field the salary of citizenship. I do not understand how those who talk about democracy and social justice do not see it, but tolerate the idea that millions of people and young people who work today do not have protection: when they finish the contract or lose their jobs, or are left alone and abandoned. The left is the one that extends the protections and eliminates injustices. This proposes the delegation: extend protection, other than remove! No more reading, no more talking about merit. That's what the proxy says. Of course, we need resources, additional resources to finance the new social shock absorbers. On this, it is clear that the Government is committed to the law of delegation. Only 16% of new recruits have an indefinite contract. Today precarious contracts prevail. It is not this delegation that produces precariousness. Let's start here. Let us not tell that the law of delegation produces precariousness: there is already. Let's not tell that it stimulates forward contracts: there are already, they are already encouraged and far too much. The proposal, on the contrary, tends to reduce time contracts, precarious contracts, to reduce precariousness, to prevent time contracts and precarious contracts - as is the case today - from being cheaper economically for companies. It means encouraging a new contract for increasing and permanent protection. It becomes, for the Government and for the State, the prevailing contract for an indefinite period; a contract that must be the only incentive from the State, convenient for the enterprises and convenient must become the stabilization of the workers, try to favor the stabilization in order to give more perspectives to the new assumptions than those that today guarantee the precarious contracts: I am sorry, but it is not right this thing, but it is left. It is well known who continues to evoke a precariousness that - I insist - is already there today. There is no need for the law to increase it, but to reduce it. This makes the bill of delegation: in this context, therefore, more protection and less precariousness. A fairer labour market serves. How workers are protected from dismissals. The point is this and not the defence of Article 18, which is now applied for a few and none of the permanent contracts in companies under 15 employees, and which has guaranteed in recent years a few hundred reintegrators. How do we protect workers from dismissals that Article 18, as well as reformed, has not prevented? Of course, it must remain the reintegro for discriminatory dismissals and dismissals for disciplinary reasons. The growing protection contract must be based on increasing compensation. Above all, the reform of social shock absorbers will ensure that those who are fired do not remain just as they do today. Let's start with the objectives, improve the rules and keep the comparison open today and after the approval of the delegation law. We would not do a good service to the country if we transformed this debate that is important for so many young people, for so many workers and for so many entrepreneurs into an incomprehensible ideological dispute, which thinks on the labour market that is no longer there. This - yes - would be incomprehensible to citizens and young people for those who are waiting for reforms that can restore the future to them and the country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u40	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u41	Madam President, Minister, the delegation on the work that the Government is asking Parliament has been preceded, as we have seen, by a lot of controversy. One of them is the possibility of eliminating the reinstatement of the worker who has been dismissed without due cause, I refer to Article 18 of the Workers' Statute. It has been said that the maintenance or deletion of this article is an ideological issue. In my opinion, this is rather a matter of logic. It is claimed to instill in people the concept that, without a right, they will live better and that their working conditions will improve. This is a real contradiction. In exchange for the deletion of Article 18, what does the Government offer? Promises vague, without knowing, however, whether there will be the financial cover to implement them. In the draft law delegation is also revised the discipline of the tasks in case of processes of reorganization, restructuring or conversion of the company. The transition from one job to another therefore becomes more flexible, with the possibility of even questioning. The possibility is foreseen for the worker who has a surplus of leave to give them to colleagues who need them, for example to assist minor children who need care. Once again, a situation is placed on the shoulders of the worker which, on the contrary, should be resolved by the institutions with another approach to social assistance. The impression, however, by reading the text is that in this case too it is only a matter of selling smoke. It seems rather that the Government wants to take the victory in its battle with the unions and the old guard of the Democratic Party, instead of implementing a plan to revive the labour market in Italy. It is also said that labour reform will be indispensable for Europe to give our country greater flexibility in public finances. That's not true. It is good to say it loud and clear, in my opinion. On the contrary, the possibility of a postponement of the balance of the budget to next year or even 2017 has been repeatedly denied. On the subject of Europe, it should be remembered that this year the European Stability Mechanism, the famous State-saving Fund, will cost Italy almost EUR 3 billion. How many incentives to work could these resources provide? And then I wonder: is it really so important for foreign investors to have the chance to fire their own employee freely? Will it not be - as has been repeated over the years - that the backwardness of our country depends rather on a civil and criminal justice very slow and cumbersome, or on a bureaucracy and, even more, on a taxation that asphyxiate the entire productive system? Finally, we must not forget that a third of our country, while having extraordinary possibilities for development, is in the hands of criminal organizations, so, even if there was the most total freedom on the part of the entrepreneur, no company would want to invest. These are the real problems that make it unattractive, for Italian and foreign investors, our country, and not the presence of Article 18. The President-in-Office himself said that the protection envisaged concerns only a small part of Italian workers. The fact, however, is another. It is intended by this cancellation to cause a rule to lapse which sanctioned a right for the worker. This is a battle between those who want to defend and protect them and those who take such an open stand on the employers' side. We would have expected such a reform to be presented by a right-wing government, and never - and I stress never - by a party that should have in its traditions the defence of workers and the weakest. The left in this country can no longer identify with the Democratic Party. The largest Italian party has now become the advocate of the worst liberal reforms. Renzi says he wants to talk to the workers, but at the same time denigrates the intermediary of the unions. Trade union representatives in this country should also be reformed, but never eliminated or expelled. Their presence is the result of battles that our grandparents and fathers have left us as an inheritance. Bringing the trade union scalp to the decision-makers in Brussels will not help to restart work in Italy. Over the last few decades, the liberal ideology which provided for the most absolute flexibility for the labour market has become increasingly established. To the precarious contracts we want to add now the total freedom of the employer to dismiss one's own employee, even without just cause: a scenario where the workers will find themselves faced with an increasingly precarious and unprotected labour market; a good leap into the past, I say. The productive context of Italy sees companies in crisis that are bought by foreign buyers and entrepreneurs who relocate in search of cheap labor. The few companies that try to resist are asphyxiated by a tax that has now reached unsustainable levels and by a Kafkian bureaucracy. It should be clear to everyone by now that companies do not hire because they have a decrease in the demand for their products and services, and certainly not because they are deprived of the possibility of free dismissal of their employees. Unemployment in this country is the result of decades of bad labour policies, lack of investment in the driving sectors of the global economy and lack of incentives for employment. The rhetoric and speech games of our President-in-Office of the Council will be fine to communicate - as many of us here have said - on Twitter, but they will not be able to charm the Italians much longer. I believe that this is a very bad reform. Definitely later it will be up to the state workers and so on, in a deadly embrace towards neoclassical and neoliberal thinking. Instead, I believe that the way is to take back our sovereignty, given as Judas gives Jesus for two coins. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and representatives of the Government, a few months ago, during the question time (but we also spoke about it later by voice), Minister Poletti strongly pointed out that the real question of labour policies was the gradual shift from passive to active policies. It was an answer that I particularly appreciated, because I believe that there is still too little reasoning on this point. Aiming at active policies means changing the game module: no longer in defense or, if it's okay, backup, but one in which you impose your own, you attack to score goals. This passage involves particular courage and above all a different mentality: what is not easy if, for years and years, you have only become accustomed to defending yourself. Unfortunately, some of the speeches I have heard this morning still go in this direction. Passive policies - and we should always know this - are like tachypyrin: they are fine to lower the fever, but they do not heal from the disease. The tachypyrin also has a very high economic price for the budgets of the State, because it constantly drains resources that cannot be used in any other way. I say this because the law that we are debating today is, among its objectives, that of creating this change of perspective, or at least so the Minister has reiterated in explaining the jobs act to the press. I believe that this law introduces several positive innovations, including the idea of a progressive protection mechanism to encourage young people to enter the labour market. But I believe, at the same time, that it would have taken more initiative on this point. The long-standing question, which - to be honest - is not only about the Italian system, is to find a balance between the economic support provided to unemployed workers and the need for them to become active and find work quickly. The most modern systems, such as the Danish or the German ones, have within them mechanisms of control to verify that the job-seeking worker really does so, even with the help of the structured systems there, and not to abuse in some way the forms of support that the State provides. The unemployed must, therefore, live that condition as a momentary and exceptional, also because the prolonged removal from a working environment has, as first fatal consequence, the professional dequalification and then, when the period of unemployment is extended, causes diseducation at work. And the integration fund or too long mobility is likely to produce exactly this effect. It is not conceivable that a person lives thanks to contributions and the integration fund or mobility for several years, without feeling the urgency of looking for a job and finding a social dimension, a role, an identity, a personal enhancement. We must have the courage to say that in our country there are also situations of this kind, that can no longer be tolerated, especially at a stage when resources are scarce and must be allocated to those who want to do and to put themselves at stake. In Trentino, contributions to continuing training are given as a priority to firms undergoing restructuring or experiencing a period of crisis. In this way the period of suspension is used to train workers. It's just an experiment, a work trace, but I think it clears the model we have to go towards. We must aim to build a system and a labour market where people are at the centre, just as they are in the most advanced countries. And people means, in the complex and fast world in which we find ourselves living, continuing training and personal responsibility. Let us not forget that, for a boy who started working 7-8 years ago in the tertiary sectors, his job and the skills needed have changed by 50%; while an accountant, who began to do so in the 1960s, arrived at the end of his career with a shift in skills of 20%. We are in a revolution in which it is difficult to predict developments. What we can be sure about is human capital and the people and the system that we have to build has to think about them. President Renzi said it's time to make the revolution. Good. Let's do it. We allow greater flexibility especially to those sectors that need to be competitive. I am thinking of the agricultural and tourism sectors, which must give immediate and sometimes unpredictable responses to climatic or market conditions. But above all we do what Europe asked us so many years ago, namely that the resources for work are equally distributed between active policies and passive policies in the ratio of one to one. My point of criticism of this provision is this, and not Article 18, and not because we should not keep alive the right safeguards and a system of rights that are sacred and furrow the difference between a modern country and a backward country. A system of protection that does not take into account the revolution we are going through risks, in fact, obtaining the opposite effect, that is, leaving rights and safeguards only on paper and not in substance. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we self-governmentists have been calling for more courage. We call for a clear and strong reformist push. We call for resources to be put in those areas that are able to create opportunities for growth and development, especially for our young people, and to put at the centre the authority of political action, able to make choices that are difficult, but right, just as in the case of shifting resources from passive to active policies. Only in this way, in fact, can a horizon of escape from the crisis be glimpsed by the country. Politics, that with capital P, is able to fully understand the phase we are experiencing, the historical revolution that we are going through and knows how to behave accordingly, that is, fully fulfilling its task and its role; putting people at the centre, also to encourage and stimulate them to do more and better, but above all allows them to express their potential. Politics must do this today. It must be an extraordinary device that frees the good energies that live in society and allows those who want to do it to do. I believe that this is the real challenge that we face today: a challenge that Italy has avoided facing in recent years, but from that we self-employed will not escape and on which we will always continue to push this Executive. [[Applause from Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u44	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u45	Madam President, the Republic recognises the right to work and promotes the conditions that make this right effective: a right that now seems to be a dream revived with pain and anger by whistles and shouts during demonstrations; a right, that to work, which should never be questioned but which, from one decree to another, until this new law delegates, seems to have lost all sense. When we read the measure, we see a debriefing of the right to work towards the interest in employment, which is quite different if we think that our Republic is based on work, a fundamental principle expressed not by chance in the article of openness, precisely, of our fundamental Charter. Reading the principles contained in the delegation law does not reveal a serious reform of the subject, which would be necessary. Greater labour flexibility and easier dismissal of workers do not seem to be moving towards full recognition of the right to work. The theorized model, that of flexibility, lends itself to many criticisms, especially if it is thought that economists claim that the recipe for improving and increasing the productivity of work is to give work stability and training. Work, in our order, is conceived as the privileged instrument by which to give the embrace to the life of the individual and of the whole of society, pursuing spiritual and material progress. Starting from this assumption it is reasonable to want to continue with this philosophy that, in recent decades, has not benefited workers but, on the contrary, has created only widespread discomfort and unhappiness, generating a conception of wrong work. Work has become the main problem of people and the continuous assault in the lives of citizens, rather than the solution to their problems. We would like work to become an opportunity for individual and collective growth, enhancing the person and not depriving him of his dignity, reducing him almost like a good that can be exchanged on the labour market and transforming him from citizen to commodity with his relative price. This system didn't work and it doesn't work. What more does it take to understand it? What worries, beyond the indeterminateness in the principles and guiding criteria of the legislative delegation that show a clear violation of Article 76 of the Constitution, is the amendment proposal of the Government with which it is expected a delegation that, in essence, even if not openly, provides for an intervention on Article 18 of Law No. 300 of 1970, precisely the Workers' Statute. In fact, the Government will be delegated to reform the contract for an indefinite period, which, for the new employed workers, will become an indefinite contract for increasing protections based on the seniority of service. Every new employee, regardless of working experience, will not immediately enjoy the same safeguards as the previous contract for an indefinite period of time, but will gradually obtain them. And - as Senator Barozzino explained - the dignity of the worker becomes and is now for sale. The proposal to intervene in the work of the worker, in the substance of an intervention on Article 13 of the Staff Regulations, is also worrying. The Government intends to revise the discipline of the duties to which the worker is assigned, providing limits to the change of the classification. This rule, inserted in a bill of delegation, worries and worries even more if you think that, a few months ago, we have sold 40% of the Ansaldo Energia to Shanghai Electric. We need to reflect on the significance of these government-based amendments. By throwing the money, it does not seem that the intentions are those of a serious reform of the job that also contemporaneizes the protection of the worker. It would appear that the prelude is to a further elimination of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u46	Colleagues, we greet the students of the Liceo "Eleonora Pimentel Fonseca" in Naples, today visiting the Senate. We welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u47	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u48	Madam President, I think that, in order to participate consciously in this debate on the characteristics of the delegation for the reorganization of the work system in Italy, one cannot ignore the condition in which our country is in: a situation of great disaster, with very serious data from the employment and economic point of view, which seem to maintain an extremely worrying development. The other thing we cannot ignore is that we have been in such a deep crisis for more than seven years now and this has worn out and exhausted our country. We have a strong need to relaunch growth in our country and we must be aware that no new rules on work are capable of generating, alone, a single new job. We absolutely need to relaunch growth, because this is the only way we have to reactivate the development of the country and give back work to the Italians. At the moment we are experiencing a very bizarre situation, in which there is youth unemployment which has reached absurd figures, while women endure unemployment which has also taken away their hope of being able to contribute to the life of Italy. And if we think about the pockets of poverty that spread and the inequalities that spread, we find that women alone with children are the poorest. Child and youth poverty is growing very much, and this is not separated from the situation of women's lack of work. There is therefore a need to relaunch growth and it certainly has to be increased by the average level of education in this country. I am absolutely convinced that there is a need to strengthen the education system, to establish a strong relationship between work and training and to qualify so much vocational training that it also provides, in its use, to be able to give access to the university of this country. Look at what kind of paradigm modification we have in front of us. At the moment our vocational training has - in my opinion - a very low quality. There are certainly exceptions and high technical training, but the very idea of thinking about vocational training as a way of accessing university must - in my opinion - become commonplace. We have had a lot of discussions these days and many times we have referred to various models, but in Germany vocational training has these characteristics and gives the possibility, in the evolution, of access to university. This means completely changing the paradigm with which we face the problem. We need to increase the cultural level of our country; we need more graduates, and someone who said for a long time that a certain school could not be held responsible for this. Let's have it. On the one hand there is, therefore, the intervention on the training and retraining of the country. On the other hand, we need an operation of great modernization of the country, which means the use of new technologies in all sectors, even in public administration. As far as the labour system is concerned, I think it is absolutely necessary to intervene without having any ambition or strange objectives not justified by economic studies, thinking that a change in a standard at work, the inclusion of a further type of contract or the modification of a standard of protection can in itself create a new job. That's not true. We know that and all economic studies tell us that. The necessity, however, is there, everything. We must absolutely reconstruct a system that - as I said before - together with the increase in training, the modernization of the country and the revival of growth, based on the explicit identification of a new industrial policy, makes us understand what are the sectors on which to invest and what to select. We also need the articulated system of work interventions to start working. We need to review the issue of social shock absorbers, including their extension, with particular reference to the less protected figures at this stage. We need to develop and increase active policies. In this context, we must focus a great deal on rules that favour the matching of supply and demand, but above all on a series of simplifications that have a particular focus on young people and women. We also need to start laying down specific rules, rules and policies against undeclared work. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]] At this stage an increase in forms of undeclared work is characterizing our system, with a series of deleterious and devastating consequences for the whole organization. I very much appreciated the Democratic Party's amendment on the text, which was adopted in the Commission, which refers precisely to specific policies against undeclared work and for legality, also referring to European indications. If we need to modernise the country, re-launch growth and more, this will mean that we will have to ask Europe for policies that are different from the economic point of view and for flexibility that will allow us to get out of this situation. Let's go specifically now. I have pointed out that there is a need to take action on the rules, rules and various sectors that together contribute to the construction of a system, with regard to work, which must absolutely be retrained. As for shock absorbers, what does this mean? It means trying to unify the protections. It means understanding what happens to shock absorbers in the part relating to constancy protection of employment relationship, or in the part relating to the loss phase. And I have a concern here. We must manage the transition and we must never forget what the situation is at this stage. We have made choices which, in these seven years, have managed the transitional situation and, above all, the loss phase. The restructuring phase of the shock absorbers must have two horns: the first is the extension of the shock absorbers to a series of less protected figures. The other, however, must include a series of rules based on the awareness that, at the moment, there is a stock of people who are taking advantage of social shock absorbers, who are unable to find work and, reasonably, will not find it soon. These people cannot be left alone to deal with existing problems, and the exhaustion of a number of forms will cause problems. In this respect, I think it is interesting to see the rule contained in the first part of the delegation on social shock absorbers, which explicitly talks about how to protect workers who leave unemployment benefits without having returned to work. It seems to me that we are talking about assistance, aid, and that means that we are talking about something other than social shock absorbers. I don't want to divide and crush, but these instruments are qualitatively different. We are saying that when classical social shock absorbers (the ones related to unemployment) end up and workers who have lost their jobs have failed to find another, they come into competition with everyone else, with people who are in a real condition of social distress and with whom they will have to share tools and assistance interventions, and no longer social shock absorbers. This point is important. Another aspect that I have appreciated in the delegation is the part relating to the reduction of time and to the contracts of solidarity, both defensive and proactive. I seriously think that the characteristics, even demographic, of our phase, and of our country in particular, involve the need to understand that there will be the need to divide the work that exists. So, predicting social shock absorbers with solidarity contracts on the one hand, but also the active phase of solidarity contracts to ensure the entry of new figures, means redistributing with the reduction of time the work that will be there (and that it will need to be redistributed, because it will be little). This seems to me to be an important element. The other point is that relating to Article 2, i.e. active policies and reorganisation. I am absolutely convinced that we must stop thinking of importing models from different countries, when we then import only a part of them, risking to cause crushing. We are making a sequence of reforms regarding the rules of the labour system that have followed in recent years in our country and have never been completely carried to the bottom, determining such a condition that, in case of delegation, all decrees and, in case of legislative decrees, implementing decrees have never been issued. This time, if we start, we should have the ability to get to the bottom. As far as employment policies are concerned, I am convinced that a national point, that the Agency can have a whole series of reflections. I would ask you, however, simply to reflect on one issue. At the moment, some 9,000 workers are engaged in our system of active policies, of which 2,000 are precarious. In the renowned German system, which is what is increasingly mentioned, there are 90,000 employees, 80 percent of whom are in contact with people directly working with job seekers and 10 percent only in the office for administrative work. In our system half of the employees are in the offices and manage and only a few thousand operators are engaged. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gatti, I invite you to conclude. GATTI (PD). Have I finished my time yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You mentioned a time, but it is not binding. GATTI (PD). Then I'd ask you for five more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Time is not contingent and, therefore, can intervene for another five minutes. GATTI (PD). Thank you. This is a fundamental point and implies that the things we now define, even in relation to the economic state of our country, will be realized gradually. There is, therefore, a need for extreme care. From this point of view, I would remind you that I am also a signatory to an amendment which expressly calls for no action to be taken on the rules relating to Article 4 and no legislative decrees relating to this article are made until after the legislative decrees relating to Article 1 and Article 2. This is for a very simple problem: we need to know and know what resources there are to be able to deal with two fundamental and very delicate points that pose such problems. I would like to turn now to one final point, and then to deal with the question of Article 4, which is the one that has had the honours of the news because Article 18 is not even mentioned on the delegation. Someone, however, in the interpretation of the delegation has pulled and, playing on an absolute indeterminateness, has been able to do so, trying to call into question the safeguards provided for in Article 18. I would like to say two things about the issue of women's work and the situation of women in this country, a subject that I care about. In this delegation an amendment was accepted in the Commission, at my first signature, in relation to the resignation in blank. I would ask you, Minister, to draw up a simple and clear rule to certify, however, the worker's will. As reference is made to the simplified labour code, of which I have read a version, I would not want the simplification to be to ask the worker, three days later, to confirm her resignation. Minister, how do you get a paper signed, you can have two signed in white. This, therefore, does not solve and simplifies anything at all. Another point, which is always related to issues contained in the delegation, concerns the revision of maternity issues, checking - for example - which figures are lacking. If we see the measures that have been taken and check the governments that have taken them, we note that intervention on these matters is in the tradition of central-left governments. We are now in a condition in which the right to motherhood, from a formal point of view, is universal. There are, however, funds that are not refinanced, laws that are not refinanced and few resources available. However, maternity is not linked to work: there are private work, self-employment and also maternity rules for unoccupied women. This point must therefore also be reviewed, given that the problem is the amount of resources that can be expected. The last question relates to Article 4, which I saw in the version of the amendment tabled by the Government. I am well aware of the debate that has taken place in politics and I expect a new amendment to come. I think that progress has already been made since the debate, which should not be overlooked. Some issues on which I too have tabled amendments are not dealt with in the final document of the debate, but there are points and issues. I look forward to seeing the texts, because on a number of issues the text is fundamental and we will have to see their nuances. I, however, would like to continue to insist that we do not really wage a war - this yes - with very ideological characteristics. Minister, Article 18 was amended two years ago. I was in the House and I took part in that discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Co-worker, you should finish now. GATTI (PD). I should like to conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is necessary to prevent dismissal without a fair economic cause from becoming the Trojan horse in order to pass a series of unfair dismissals. [[Applause from the PD groups]] and Misto-SEL and Senator Campanella). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the bill we are debating today, as we have heard, is to carry out an important reform of the work through special delegations to the Government in various fields of the sector. It is, however, reductive to see this provision not within a targeted programming, wanted and carried out by a responsible Government. In fact, it must be linked to the issue of civil justice: how many measures and procedures have long periods of work? We know that in Italy the times of civil justice are sometimes painful and very long: twice as long as in other countries. This reform is also linked to the reduction of policy costs. We know that we have proceeded on our own, in the Senate, to eliminate ourselves. Did it take courage? I don't know, but we did and it's part of a drawing. We have twice as many MPs in the United States. Let's remember that. This important bill must then be linked to the fight against corruption, which I will talk about later, and finally, not least, to the reform of public administrations. However, I would first like to ask the House a question that concerns the young people so evoked here: those young people who are our children and I can say my pupils, since I am a primary school teacher who arrived at the thirty-ninth year of work in the school, and I have seen many of them. Here: those young people look at me, ask me and tell me. I wonder if they really understand what we're talking about. Are they following the debate that has opened on the draft law delegation and, in particular, on a part that has frustrated its strength? Not because our minister couldn't bring it back, but maybe because it's more convenient to look at the finger and let the moon be behind it, so I don't see it. In asking me this question, I can only start from a figure, already reported but to remember: in Italy, youth unemployment has reached the abyss of 43.3% versus 7.9% recorded in Germany. In addition, 85% of young people who have found work are not only deprived of the protection of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, but also of any other protection provided for by an indefinite contract. We need to talk about this and I am convinced that this derby, which is not Juve-Turin or Milan-Inter or Rome-Lazio, is much more important. This derby on Article 18 is lunar for me, lunar for the boys of my school, lunar for our children. Setting up a new contract, more convenient for companies, less tax-paying, less rigid, simpler, should be a goal recognized and shared by everyone and in particular by those who look to the present and the future, but do not look to the past. This is an action of the left, of the center, of the right: it is an action that sees the work, sees our future progress. On certain subjects there must be no fences, there must be no ideologies, there must be no totems. In the twentieth century the entrepreneurial system played a role of partnership, if not, in some cases, of supplement of the State, guaranteeing social shock absorbers. I'm not just quoting Olivetti's striking case. I come from a manufactory land, Biella, and I want to quote someone who is no longer there, so as not to wrong anyone: the Rivets had thousands of workers, they protected workers and children, there were kindergartens and schools. This was the corporate welfare, which in fact ensured, with the salary, from the cradle to the grave. In return, the State transferred subsidies of various kinds to companies and often an exclusive corridor in the production sector. But that world is irremediably over, and not since today. Stefani Folli, on "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore), recalled that even forty years ago, in an Italy inevitably very different from today, it was Ugo La Malfa who posed a problem that was emerging, that of the fortified citadel, in which the privileged, i.e. those who had a job, were locked up, and from which the unemployed were excluded. After the lucid analysis of the Republican leader, politics has tried to reform the labour market over the years and decades that followed, as the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, has very well reminded us in this House. Massimo D'Alema has also tried, of which we remember the words spoken in 1997, during the Congress of the PDS, which are of incredible topicality and that I would have liked to hear the other day pronounced in our assembly: "Mobility, flexibility are first and foremost a fact of reality" and this is the big problem facing us on the left. "We have to build new and more flexible networks of representation and protection, "if we do not put ourselves on this ground, we will increasingly represent only a segment of the world of work." "We have to negotiate the wages and rights of those who are in black and precarious work, "instead of staying out of factories with a copy of the national contract of employment." [[Applause from Senator Sacconi.]] It was 1997 and, in my opinion, it is very topical. Young people without protection, compared to 1997, have really increased: the data we have heard are reported and we read them every day in the newspaper, and it is they, in 2014, who are a mass. A hypothetical new Circus Maximus, today, would be crossed by that urgent request and no longer by those evoked by Sergio Cofferati on March 23, 2002. That is the core of the delegation law that we are discussing. Unprotected young people are a mass, while the guaranteed fort has been reduced, every day is gradually reduced and is almost dissolved. That is why the reform of work speaks to our present, trying to correct the dramatic data I referred to earlier, to extend protection to the greatest possible number of workers and to encourage companies to hire. I always love repeating a saying that the best is the enemy of good. Then let us begin to remedy these injustices evoked by all, we cannot always wait. However, in this debate on the delegation of work, we have found ourselves, as our rapporteur has reported, in harmony, especially with regard to four articles: the first, the second, the third and the fifth. On Article 4 we have stopped, we have taken up the various positions, and it is not true that few amendments by the minority have been accepted. They have been accepted, and also significantly, in the sense that the thought underlying it has been understood and have changed this bill of delegation for the better. One third of the amendments tabled are from the minority and are good amendments. That is what we have done and we must continue to do. Article 1 provides for the reform of the discipline of social shock absorbers and among the objectives to be achieved are the integration of social employment insurance (ASpI) and mini ASPI. Article 2 provides for a delegation to the Government on labour services and active policies. It is better in fact to intercept the willingness of the workers to place themselves also in a perspective of relocation in the work, because the work gives dignity, therefore it is necessary to place oneself in the perspective of taking care of the worker in his working career and to accompany him in a path that will then lead him to relocate, with a targeted training and with a series of inputs that are given and that are foreseen. Everything, however, in its time. There is a time to make the law, there is a time, with decrees delegated, to apply it, there is a time - very close - to find the resources. You can't do everything together. The best, I repeat, is the enemy of good. In this case we want the good, the good of Italy. Article 3 provides for a delegation to the Government in the field of simplification of procedures and compliance. IPSOS-CNA data tells us that a craftsman, who creates and gives work, spends forty-five days of his time in the exploration of bureaucratic acts, which 62 percent consist in the fulfilment of environmental and safety standards and standards for work. His employee, who also has to juggle in bureaucracy, spends twenty-eight days, who subtracts from work itself, productivity and maybe even dedicate himself to the family. This brings simplification. Article 4, on which I may come back later, gives the government the power to reorder contractual forms. I also consider it crucial, as the secretary of the Labour Commission and the Labour Accident Commission, the rule introduced by the Government to make inspection more efficient through a single Labour Inspection Agency, which will overcome the current critical issues in health and safety, integrating into a single structure the inspection skills of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, the INPS and the INAIL, and which includes forms of coordination with the ASL and the Regional Agencies for the Protection of the Environment. As is known, each Region acts a bit on its own, some paths are different and different, and this creates some criticalities. These very days, unfortunately, we are witnessing an increase in the number of deaths at work, which overall have fallen, that is true (the work has also fallen), but we must not stop investing in safety and prevention, including occupational diseases, because ensuring a healthy and safe working environment is also a strategic objective of the Commission of the European Union, which works to this end in close cooperation with the Member States, the social partners, the other institutions and other bodies of the European Union. These are important actions, with truly ambitious challenges that Italy must commit itself to facing right from the start. I would also like to talk about the increasing protections so evoked, making my contribution, if possible, but I would simply introduce the question of Article 18, on which the current debate, dealt with in Article 4, does not solve the problems of our unemployed, young people and not. As we know, there are 3,000 cases a year of unrighteous dismissals that end up with the worker's reinstatement, while we have 3,600,000 workers who not only do not benefit from the right to reinstatement but are disadvantaged in everything. This is the case for co.co.co and VAT matches. In order to achieve effective labour reform, the numbers to be taken into account are others. If we look at the population aged 15-64 at the end of 2013, the Italian unemployment rate was 49.9%, while the German unemployment rate was 72.3%. It is urgent to discuss all the other rights that are actually denied to workers today: the right to decent work, to create a family, to motherhood, to have a fair wage. Article 18 today applies to a minority compared to 22.4 million official Italian workers, since the full-time and part-time employees above the 15 per company threshold are approximately 9.4 million. There is no more unfair thing than to divide the citizens between the A and the B series, said our President-in-Office of the Council, stressing how a world of work based on apartheid must be overcome. It has been evoked the black work, it has been evoked this and it must emerge. There are two million neets, of young people who do not study and do not work and do not know well what they do and that either they are maintained through family welfare or work in black, and we know that the emergence of black work is important. That is why it is necessary to support this delegation, to which the delegated decrees will follow, as we have said. The absolute emergency is the exclusion of those who are in danger of never having a job. This must be discussed in good politics and in the trade union system. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u50	Senator Favero, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u51	FAVERO (PD). If you want to rewrite the Workers' Statute you have to have in mind that the main themes are: just wages, maternity, holidays, diseases, protection against discriminatory dismissals, active labour policies. As our President of the Republic rightly pointed out, Italy cannot remain a prisoner of corporatism and conservatism. With this measure we can and must responsibly, because we are senators, senators of the Italian Republic, overcome the old ideological enclosures, and put ourselves around a table, all, to improve the present and the future of young people and women, of all those who are excluded from the labour market in order to offer them a new opportunity, a new hope. Long live Italy! The Italy that produces, the Italy of the job, the Italy responsible, the Italy that cares and that accompanies, the Italy that guards the job, that knows how to increase and protect the workers and the entrepreneurs and knows how to combine these aspects that are important. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Sacconi and Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u52	Given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u55	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in June of last year in this House, I put my attention to a fact of record about the death of Luca, a two-year-old boy, who was left in the car for hours, forgotten by his father, in Piacenza. I already remembered then that such a misfortune did not, unfortunately, represent an isolated case. A document produced by the Ministry of Health in 2013 reports that in the United States, an average of 36 children left in cars die every year due to hyperthermia. In France, the Consumer Safety Commission noted that between 2007 and 2009, there were 24 cases of hyperthermia in children who remained locked in the car, of which 5 were fatal. This phenomenon must not be dismissed as the folly of an unnatural parent, but must be treated and analysed as the consequence of a momentary pathological state that can affect normal and loving people and care for their children. To confirm this, it is news of a few days ago, the father of Luke was exonerated by the gip, because he declared unable to understand and want at the time of the event. The acquittal for man, who at the time had said he had convinced himself that he had brought the child to kindergarten, would be linked precisely to the report of psychiatrists of accusation and defense, agree that the father was prey to dissociative amnesia, that is a black hole in the attention that falsifies memories and that can be triggered by a traumatic event, but also by a strong stress and lack of sleep. Cognitive states that occur not rarely in parents of very young children. Following this tragic event, a comparison was launched at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with the major Italian car seat manufacturers, to examine technical solutions through which to point out the presence of forgotten children in the car seats. Not only that: a petition was launched by the doctor Maria Ghirardelli online, to which Luca's father also joined, to introduce a change to the road code that takes into account innovative technical solutions and, consequently, revisited the discipline related to the child restraint system. Personally, on 4 March 2014, I presented the bill n. 1361, which transposes this request, intervening on Articles 72 and 172 of the Road Code, in order to provide for the obligation for vehicles intended for the transport of persons to be equipped with a special system for the detection of natural persons and a connected alarm system. I know that the Lazio Regional Council also drew up a bill, in June, quite similar, and presented it to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. There are several devices on the market and also many new prototypes that can avoid other tragedies such as those of Luca. You just have to make them mandatory in order to raise safety standards for children. I therefore call on the Commission to address the proposal contained in Law No 1361 as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u58	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, remember the spot: Silence, this is Agnesi. Well, I would like to bring to your attention the story of the Pastificio Agnesi, of Imperia, a brand that since 1824 has spread the quality of Italian pasta throughout the world and that today risks closing its doors, depriving our country of a universally recognized excellence in the agro-food sector and my territory of more than 200 jobs, considered its induced. I would ask you to consider how much this affair, in the context of the crisis that Italy is investing, is causing serious damage to the local economy, which is already the victim of progressive deindustrialisation, and which has unemployment peaks of 16.9% and, in general, a poverty index of 10.6 percent. Imperia even arrives third last in Italy among the cities with the lowest purchasing power in relation to the lowest wages. Not only that: there is also a serious damage, in general, to the attempts to relaunch the agri-food sector, just at the gates of the 2015 World Expo, with food as its theme. The fearful closure of the plant, anticipated by the closure and dismantling, which took place between January and February of this year, of its mill that served the imperious pasta factory, was recently brought to the table of the Ministry of Economic Development (for which I would like to thank the officials, who, with great dedication and competence, are dealing with the matter) and will return to the attention of the same Ministry on 16 December next. I therefore call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and on the Government to support any initiative to prevent the loss of jobs in this plant. I am convinced that with the collaboration of the property - the Colussi group - and the national and local institutions, we can find a positive way out for the company and for the workers. Italy cannot continue to lose opportunities for development and to watch the bleeding of jobs and capital as the purchasing power of our families continues to subside. The closure of the Agnesi squeals horribly with the efforts of the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policy to enhance the skills and capacity of the agro-food sector, driving sector of the national economy together with the tourism sector. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-321.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
