ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u6	Senator Mussini, do you wish to make the same request or do you wish to intervene for something different? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I speak on the contents of the Minutes, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then your speech must be done in advance. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, far from me a dilatory or obstructive intention, I must, however, speak on the Minutes or, better to say, on the combined wording of the minutes that have just been read and the shorthand report. I would like to point out that, in the afternoon sitting on Thursday 17, in addition to what Mr Petrocelli, Senator Lanzillotta, who was in his place at the time, did not follow up on my request to take the floor. In particular, I would have taken the floor after the senator, to reject the request made by Senator Buccarella, had argued as a reason that there had already been other similar cases. I am always rather careful in this House and, if anything, it seems to me that in other cases where the inclusion of issues on the agenda has been requested, there has never been an exception on the content of the request, but on what was then arranged at the Conference of the Leaders (for example, the inclusion of that anti-corruption decree that today we see increasingly slipping into thin air). I have therefore never felt that there were any precedents with regard to the assessment of whether these were objectively occurring and urgent. In addition, Senator Lanzillotta, at first instance, pointed out that the subject should have been placed on the agenda in the Capigroup, where instead, as Senator Battista pointed out, the calendar had been voted in the Chamber. There were therefore no reasons for this. Therefore, I raised my hand to ask for the floor, at the same time as Senator Candiani, with the difference that the senator was given the word while I, who would have asked for explanations, was not given the word and Senator Lanzillotta took it off, preventing me from speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u7	[[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] Mr President, you know that I am a very calm and mild person, but I have a small detail: I do not tolerate the fact that the rules are not being respected. I am aware that I belong to the minority of a minority, but I demand that my right, as a senator, to speak and ask for explanations be accepted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There was no impediment to the possibility of addressing this request to Senator Lanzillotta and frankly I was extremely impressed by the impossibility of speaking. I realize that we are at the forced marches and I also realize that the situation on Thursday evening was extremely delicate, all the more because the square was unguarded: in fact, only five or six senators of the PD had remained to oversee it. I also realize that the request could certainly have been addressed in a much more crowded Chamber. The problem was that that evening, at 8 pm, we were in five Senators of the X Movement and of Italy Work in Course, about fifteen Senators of the 5 Star Movement, five or six Senators of the PD, Senator Calderoli and Senator Candiani. I understand that this may have put you in trouble, but it's still part of the rules: if you're not there, you're wrong; you can't safeguard a reason that you haven't run away with legs. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups]] I am sorry, Mr President, because I have always been very respectful of the decisions of the Presidency. I am very sorry, Mr President, that you were represented very badly on that occasion. I must also say that at a time when Senator Lanzillotta will be again presiding, I will have to be doubly careful that my prerogatives as senator are safeguarded and I ask you kindly to reflect on this issue. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u8	Senator Mussini, the sensibility of Senator Lanzillotta, who in that case presided, would surely have allowed her to have the word. I have to assume that, as often happens to me, the President did not realize that you had asked for the floor. Having said that, I would not like to do anything about it, but I would like to see it recorded in the Minutes: we can correct the process, in the sense of specifying that you have asked for the floor. In this way it is recognized, if it wants and if that is the problem. In any case, I think I have already clarified this morning the debate on the admissibility of these requests and that is therefore not the point. I understand what the point is, namely that Senator Mussini has asked to speak and has not been given the opportunity to do so. It's often happened to me that I don't notice things like that. [[Senator Scilipoti points out that he wants to intervene.]] Even at this moment there is Senator Scilipoti who asks to intervene and must always be with his hand raised in order to attract my attention. We take note of this situation and realize that it can happen. In any case, the debate on this matter was not closed, we resumed it this morning and therefore no prerogative has been taken away from it, being able to speak now. So we take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u11	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you, but what my colleague has said in this House should make us all think. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I do not go into the matter and I believe that my colleague, Senator Lanzillotta, has done a good job in carrying out the function of Vice President, but it is not up to me to say so. I note from a political point of view that there is a senator from the Republic in this House who is making very serious political reflections. I would therefore ask that Senator Lanzillotta, in the function she had then, who is here today, intervene to give a plausible explanation of her behavior. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u12	I've already given...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u13	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr. President, let me finish. Then it may also be that he says things that are neither in heaven nor on earth and that for someone on the other side of the barricade are strange and peculiar, because they are scandalized when you touch someone near them, and they do not get scandalized when you touch the rights of others instead. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is indeed a shameful fact. Just look at the newspapers these days to remind someone who is on the other side of the barricade that until yesterday shouted at the scandal and we were almost plagued because we were trying to defend a legitimate government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not only were we plagued, but almost ashamed to talk to us. Today, with a sentence that says everything and completely the opposite of what has been said in recent years, it happens that these gentlemen do not make themselves heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u14	Senator Scilipoti, I gave you the floor for a very specific reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u15	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have great esteem for you. I know you play your role wonderfully. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's not exaggerate. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). You are trying to guarantee everyone in this House. But I would ask you, Mr President, to call on the people concerned, or to hold a meeting, to actually understand what happened on Thursday evening, and whether there has been an incorrect attitude towards a Member of Parliament that the Vice President should take responsibility and apologize publicly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u16	You didn't ask for the floor for another reason? SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). The quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He forgot. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). No, I didn't forget. I have said this before, Mr President. I'm sorry you didn't remember.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u18	What do you want to intervene on? On the quorum, on the Minutes or on what? PUGLIA (M5S). The Minutes, Mr President. Mr President, I would also like to point out that the afternoon sitting on Thursday 17 July also saw me present here in the Chamber among the senators who witnessed President Lanzillotta's behavior. I was also, like my colleague, the victim of this attitude, not being listened to. I, too, wanted to speak on that occasion, and I too was not given the opportunity to do so. It is true, as you have already explained, that this can happen, perhaps in certain situations, especially when there are many of us. However - I say myself - you can very often see each senator when we are almost all present. In that case we were really four cats. Then - I say - there are moments when you really have the opportunity to make mistakes, because there are so many of us. However, in that case, Mr President, there were not many of us, there were very few of us. It happened to me, like to others; therefore, I was not the only one. At least all those present had the impression that, in that case, there was no mistake or oversight: it seemed to me that getting up and leaving was done precisely with science and conscience.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u19	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u20	If you're done, I wouldn't want to do the trial with your intentions. Anyway, the accident seems clear and closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u21	PUGLIA (M5S). I would just like to conclude, first of all, by having the Minutes fixed and specifying - I have read and have not indicated - that I was among those who were asking for the floor. I would also like to specify one thing (which can be read from the Minutes): there were five minutes left and, therefore, the fact that we had to leave and say no and that the House was closed, honestly it was instrumental and I think it was done specifically. So, in this case, it was an act of empire that goes to undermine the prerogatives of each senator. It's not fair! It's not fair! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u22	Senator Puglia, we've cleared it up. We note this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u23	PUGLIA (M5S). Then it is these things that give rise not only to the clash in the Chamber, but also to the social clash, because already from these things you can see the distance between those who have been in here for years and in our opinion is chaste and who are the citizens instead! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u24	Senator Puglia, we understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u25	PUGLIA (M5S). No, Mr President, these are things that must be written and said, because where there is silence there is connivance [[Comments from the FI-PdL Group XVII)!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u26	You had a chance to say that. We note that Senator Puglia was also present and asked to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u27	The accident seems to me to be closed and clarified. Today we also re-edited what happened. [[Senator Puglia points out that he still wants to intervene.]] If it's on this subject, Senator Puglia, we're done. Senator Sclipoti, where are you going? You asked for the quorum and you're leaving? SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I wasn't leaving, Mr. President, I just moved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u30	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I was there... He was there. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Sure, Thursday I was there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You had the opportunity to speak, didn't you? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Of course, and I can also testify to you that the situation was much simpler than today, because there were 30 senators present. Mr President, we are also talking here about President Lanzillotta's goodness. I therefore believe that there should be clarification in the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Bignami]] , also to be clear from the point of view of the correctness of the people and leave nothing unfinished. So I put this proposal back to the assessment of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u32	Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u33	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I shall put the Minutes to the vote, with the additions that have been requested. It is approved
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u34	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u35	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,24 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u36	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general discussion ended in the afternoon sitting and the replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government took place. Senator Petrocelli presented a proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u39	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this proposal. Let me give you a reason. First of all, I would like to start with the report by President Finocchiaro, whom we thank for the correctness with which he has conducted the work of the Commission as President. This must be acknowledged, as it has allowed a correct development, with the maximum participation of all. Unfortunately, there has not been the same degree of correctness in the performance of the role of rapporteur of the measure; this since the beginning, since, after the very large general discussion, in which President Finocchiaro participated carefully, although almost all the speeches, even of the Commissioners, were highly critical of the basic text of the Government, in the end the basic text proposed by the rapporteur, although an agenda had been approved a moment earlier in the completely opposite direction, was imposed by the Government. The rapporteur, this is the impression we have had, has submitted to the imposition of the government. I hope that this is not the case, but this is the impression that we all had, that the government imposed its own basic text, a text that had been widely criticized and actually modified, so obviously there were some critical issues. Another issue with regard to what the rapporteur has always said is that this text, which has been dismissed by the Commission, contains all the demands that have been made in the Commission. Well, it is not true, we cannot say that, quite the contrary: there have been only small changes, small interventions. There have been no major interventions: the key points, the stakes that the Government has put before everyone have always been confirmed and never questioned. The few additions that have been proposed, such as the pro-positive referendums, have been rejected, or even withdrawn for the House. The password was, in fact, withdrawn from the Chamber. We expect the debate in this House to take place on the amendments and lead to conclusions that are different from those that have come to the Commission, because the Commission has been deprived of the opportunity to express itself and to vote on certain amendments. Whenever the 5 Star Movement said: "That amendment proposed by a PD senator we like and we will vote for it," that amendment was withdrawn for the House, otherwise it would have passed. The government then asked for it to be withdrawn for the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That is what happened in the Commission. Then I am told that all the speeches have been heard and taken into consideration. Well, Senator Finocchiaro mentioned Professor Onida. On the other hand, I would like to mention another person, very dear to the Democratic Party, Professor Pace, who in his hearing, in which he wanted to specify that he had voted for the PD because it was not thought that he was reclaiming the opposition, in relation to judgment No. 1 of 2014, which declared the unconstitutionality of Law No. 270 of 2005, the Porcellum, stated that his ratio was identified by the Court in the "excessive gap between the compression of the political representative body (...) and the will of the citizens expressed through the vote." It should therefore be intuitive - these are Professor Pace's words - that a Parliament in which the "excessive overrepresentation of the relative majority list" persists - which, according to the Court, "has caused an intolerable vulnus for the constitutional order as a whole considered" -, assuming that it can exercise normal legislative and control activities - thus also questioning this - (and this derives from the explicit indications of the Court to the legislator on the criteria to be followed for the new electoral law) cannot instead be considered legitimate to carry out constitutional revisions, precisely because the abnormity of the majority prize of which the PD has benefited with only 27 percent... negatively affects the legitimacy of any reformatory process involving the Constitution. That's what Professor Pace said, but he didn't stop here either. He said words that were perhaps underemphasised, but in a passage from his hearing he said: In this sense, the sentence issued a few days ago by the current President of the Council of Ministers, with reference to the constitutional revision procedure, raises concerns. These are words reported by Professor Pace, who was not denounced for defamation or slander and which are public because the shorthand report is published on the Senate website. The sentence of the President of the Council he quotes is: "Now the important thing is to arm my majority." Constitutional reform has this objective: to arm the Premier's majority. It is not a constitutional reform for the good of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] I'm also telling you why it's not for the good of the country. I always prefer to rely on quotations from people, who have also been inspired by the presence in the Chamber of Minister Delrio, today number two of the Renzi Government. It has already been taken up, this phrase of 2010, when in Reggo Emilia, highlighting the presence of Professor Onida said: We wanted it in Reggio because we are in love with the Constitution (...). We like the Constitution as it is. That is why, at such a difficult time for the country, I say these words to you, we talk about four years ago and nothing has changed - the world economic crisis, in which there are thousands of families in difficulty in our cities too, the main thing to be concerned with is not to reform the Constitution. Leave it as it is the Constitution, we like it as it is! We think about solving the concrete problems of the people, the efficiency of the courts, of the public administration, the true autonomy in unity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] These were the words of the then Mayor Delrio. The 5 Star Movement did not speak of the authoritarian turnaround, just as it was not we who uttered the strong words that were used: these words were not spoken by street populists or protesters, but by eximum constitutionalists. Only Professor Onida was mentioned, while we forgot about Zagrebelsky, Carlassare, Professor Pace, Rodotà: they also signed an appeal against the "authoritarian turn" and for this we must quote them all. I would also like to stress another point. A short time ago, in the debate - and the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, replied - an appeal was made for this constitutional reform to be submitted to a confirmed referendum, however and regardless: well, it cannot be done if it is voted by a two-thirds majority. So our call is to avoid, at least, reaching two thirds so that we can hold a referendum. We are not talking, in fact, about a reform recently: it is a complete upheaval of the country's institutional structure. It is not the electivity of the Senate the problem: the electivity of the Senate - be it clear - is only one of the problems of this reform, which are others, first of all the "authoritarian turn": the government that imposes its choices on Parliament, first by decree, today also with the guillotine. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will then make you a proposal, not provocative, but serious, true. These days, if not today, we will be presenting a draft constitutional law of a few lines, which solves the problem immediately, at the root: an advisory referendum, direct, immediate, to be done in 2015 - or even sooner, if possible - in which citizens are asked to respond to the key points of this reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). I'm closing, Mr. President. An address referendum, therefore - we can build together the questions, on which we are open to debate - that will allow us to know what the citizens think and want: if they want the elective Senate, if they want the reduction of the parliamentarians of both Chambers, if they want an increase in the power of the government in the decision-making of Parliament, if they want to take away the possibility of voting for the Senate and leave it only to the House. These questions must be submitted to the citizens with an advisory referendum. Soon after we will be ready to vote whatever comes out of that consultative referendum: you will reach two thirds with our votes, if you put to the vote what will be determined by the consultative referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In that case there will be no need for a further transition with a confirmed referendum. If you have courage, let's move on from prior consultation of the people. [[Extended applause from the M5S Group.]] We therefore approve this bill, at least before the third and fourth readings of the constitutional reform: it can be done in a short time, by the end of the year, to then make a consultative referendum next year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u41	Senator Russo, you asked to speak on the previous subject, but because of a lack of timeliness of the Presidency, you did not have the opportunity to speak. Although we have moved on to another subject, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u42	As you can see, colleagues, there may be some slips. Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, in accepting your invitation to consider the previous subject to be concluded, I am speaking only to clarify and to testify that President Lanzillotta's behaviour has been corrected in all its aspects. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u43	Colleagues, you have spoken: give the other Members the opportunity to speak, as I have given everyone the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u44	Mr Russo (PD). In particular, it has been given ease, whoever requested it, to speak, until the moment when the request seemed to have been presumptuous. I just want to remind you - and of this I pray the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, and not only - that we are dealing with an issue that the Italians have clearly told us to put at the top of the objectives. AIROLA (M5S). But where? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. Mr Russo (PD). This is a game, because the Italians see [[Ironic applause from Senator Santangelo]] who is accompanying this reform. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u45	Let Senator Russo speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u46	Mr Russo (PD). ...and see who wants to stop this reform. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] I just want to pray to everyone to remain within the rules of legitimate obstructionism. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! Mr Russo (PD). I would just like to remind you, since we were few in this House at that time - and perhaps you were not there either, Mr Santangelo - that at some point we asked for the order of business to be reversed, citing what is tragic in the Middle East and Ukraine. I would like, and indeed I would be grateful to the House for this, that we should not lower ourselves to exploit means which are not in the dignity of this House, to prevent a debate that no one wants to compress, but which the Italians are asking us to examine quickly and to move forward quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u49	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this morning, after the request that the 5 Star Movement, which was then shared by Senator De Cristofaro of SEL, should not proceed to the examination of the articles, I asked to speak because it was not clear to me what was being formulated, i.e. not to proceed to the examination of the articles, and to refer the measure back to the Commission. So, if that is the request, I must point out that there is some confusion between Rules 93 and 96 of the Rules of Procedure, because the request not to proceed to the examination of the articles, under Rule 96, blocks the matter and the measure does not return to the Commission at all. The request made pursuant to Rule 93 had already been made this morning, and the Presidency - I have to say correctly - has decided to reject it, because there were no new facts to support that request for suspension which - yes - could have allowed the possible postponement of the measure to the Commission. So, if there is no clarity from the regulatory point of view of the request, I wonder what we are talking about. It is therefore good to know that the request made pursuant to Rule 96 not to move on to the examination of the articles does not at all involve referral back to the Commission, but puts an end to the examination of the reform in this House, at the beginning of its debate. Moreover, I must add that the rule in Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure allows each senator to make a request for suspension with referral back to the Commission, but it must be proposed, according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, before the debate begins. The President of the Senate, however, this morning, assessed it - and I must say correctly this time - beyond the terminology used in the Rules of Procedure, referring to a practice of the Senate. In essence, in practice, the request for suspension may also be made during the discussion or at the end of the debate. Therefore, I conclude by saying that either these aspects are clarified or we are talking in a very vague and technical way only to achieve different goals compared to the real and real interests of Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u50	Thank you for your clarification, Senator Falanga, but I began by saying that we are proceeding under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the request of Senator Petrocelli. Let us consider it an oral matter: the request is certainly in accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure; the debate is on this subject and we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u53	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to a joke made by Senator Calderoli when he said that we should not behave in such a way as to throw the child away with dirty water. The debate in the Commission has shown quite clearly that the majority of this House is in favour of overcoming the perfect bicameralism. On the other hand, it is also true that the Government has arrived at the Commission with a clear imponatura - probably, I imagine, because of an agreement made in extra-parliamentary session, which was the basis of the Government's bill - and therefore the Government has imponata itself asking that it be the basic text. Basically the negotiating spaces were null on some points that the Government considered key points; points that are not consistent with the idea of overcoming the prefect bicameralism, which many of us have even proposed and on which the majority of the Assembly converges. At this point I support the request of Senator Petrocelli in order to be able to actually put in place a hypothesis of reform that concretely collects the sharing of the majority, because I believe that, going on this way, the Government is putting seriously at risk first of all its own hypothesis of reform. In fact, I imagine that colleagues who, like me, are opposed to key points of government reform, such as the non-electivity of the Senate and the imbalance of powers that would arise from this reform, are willing like me to try in every way to ensure that this purpose does not go through. So, in order to be able to actually give the Italians the correction of the Constitution, which they need and which the system needs to work better, I ask you to return to reason all together with a common purpose, because this reform, of which everyone, even the Government, let's say that there is need, can actually be done not in a sense decided by some, but in a sense shared by all colleagues. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u56	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a duty to express an opinion which I hope will help the whole House to find a balanced and articulated position on this proposal. I do not see it as a obstructive proposal, if we want to make use of this simplification, but I do, as we have always done, as one of the important instruments of parliamentary activity. However, it is an instrument which, in this context, risks not fully grasping the real scope of the debate that has taken place so far and which will continue to take place in this context. It is an important debate on the possible epochal reform of a considerable part of our Constitution and not only of what concerns perfect bicameralism; in fact, I think of other equally important parts, even if perhaps less debated by the public, such as those concerning changes and adjustments to Title V, because that part arises in the context of economic reforms that are the most urgent in this country. As well as the whole country, I am anxious to see economic reforms carried out as soon as possible, those that really affect the lives and future of citizens. Others, on the other hand, are anxious to run and get to a result soon, provided it is, even if it is full of flaws; above all a result that risks to divide the country further, in which, however, the division, Mr President, is not in equal parts, as we are accustomed, for example, to detect from the electoral results. It is a bad division, if it is true - as is true - that on average 73 percent of Italians consider it right to have a Senate modified, modernised, specialized and different from the House, but directly elected by its will, with that popular sovereignty that seems to be lacking in this context. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] In the figure of this reform, which I consider, although possible, still full of too many limits and limitations to the sovereignty and democracy of our country, and in a debate that is most appropriate, we must be able to identify the possibility of building that good reform that serves first and foremost the Italians and not someone to attack a medal in their medals. I know that this is not the case and that everyone, from the Government to the whole Parliament, is encouraged by the wish to see our best possible work done on reforms, but in order to do so we also need to complete the good work done in the Commission, as Mr Calderoli said this morning. For this reason, when I explore one of the forms guaranteed by Parliament's Rules of Procedure concerning the protection of the democracy of this House and its minorities (even though they never appear), I consider the request not to pass to the examination of the articles a bit like looking at the finger instead of the moon, when the moon is much more important than the finger and invites us to confront and respect that feeling and that popular will that seems to emerge now clearly, not only from the polls of those who live among the people and on the territory (that was already clear to many of us), but also from those of the institutions that traditionally are charged with detecting the opinion of the Italians. Well, that is the Italian opinion and I am mainly bound to respect that will. I therefore hope that as soon as possible this debate will begin in order to enter the substance and divide us in this House among those who want a Senate elected by the secretariats of the parties, through the mechanism of the election of second degree, and who wants, instead, in the reform of a modern Senate, reduced in number and with modified functions, to leave it intact to the will and popular sovereignty and above all to the determination that, through the vote, we carry out in the historical and political processes, especially in this which has been discussed for many years, but which perhaps today can come to an end. The haste is a bad councilwoman, Mr President, and I am sure that you, along with so many of us, will remember how the only true, authentic and recognised way of achieving the solution is in the development of the debate; without that debate that solution cannot come. For these reasons, I hope that those who said yesterday, like Mrs Boschi, that time has expired today, in the light of what she has heard in this House in a very authoritative way by the rapporteurs and not only, will understand that that haste is in danger of sinking this reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-ILC groups and the Senators Buemi and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u59	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are currently debating the proposal not to move on to the examination of articles which, according to what we have heard, would provide that this draft Constitutional Review Act should be set aside to be taken up again and we do not know when. That is not why we are, because we are a reformist force, a political movement that thinks that we need to reform the Constitution and move in the direction we have taken, as highlighted on more than one occasion in the Commission. But, Mr President, even according to what you have said this morning, there are some new facts that could lead to going in the opposite direction to what you said a few minutes ago. I'll explain. The rapporteurs tell us - and they have repeated this on more than one occasion during the speeches - that it is necessary to sum up the amendments, but the draft Constitutional Act presents a series of critical issues that it is right to take forward and not, in our opinion, leave to the House's resolution. That is why we believe it is right to make a quick move to the Commission, which also leads to those answers which at this moment...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u60	Excuse me for interrupting, Senator Centinario. In order not to resume the controversy on this subject, I would remind you that Senator Falanga has made it clear that it is not a matter of going back to the Commission. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Let him talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, but I would like to avoid coming back to a debate that has already been held. We are dealing with the request not to move to the articles, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Senator's Rules of Procedure. Please, Senator Centinario, take it back.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u61	It is to try to get out of this impasse, because a large part of this House, Mr President - perhaps you live it from the Presidency's ranks while we live it from here, where perhaps there is a totally different view - does not have the idea that this measure should be blocked: a large part of this House has a clear idea, namely that this measure will return to the Commission also in the light of what has been stated by the rapporteurs, as well as for some political reasons. Much of this House is currently waiting for the Government - I would ask Minister Boschi to listen to us for a second - to respond to some of the alternative proposals that have been made. Consequently, we cannot be content with the intervention that the Minister has made today because, although it has been an excellent intervention, from the heart as well as technical, we have not been given answers to many parliamentary groups that are currently asking concrete answers to the Government, to the rapporteurs and to the majority, that allow us to understand whether this text of constitutional revision is what we have to vote as it is because trust is not placed only on a moral issue (it would be really scandalous given what we will learn to vote in the next few days and all the trusts that will be placed shortly). We are simply waiting for answers, and perhaps it is not right for them to come to this House: perhaps we should go back to the Commission, where quickly, but concretely we should give answers to the various parliamentary groups, and then we should come back to this House with the text to be voted on. That is the reason for my proposal. Also because I was attentive to his speech, Minister Boschi, contrary to his President-in-Office who, when others speak, goes to watch the game (and I will remind him forever). We are here and listen to her because we have respect for her and for what she represents right now. Well, you tell us not to be afraid of other people's ideas. I appreciate this passage from your speech, and I really appreciate it, and just because I appreciate it, I think you have said so sincerely. And precisely because I think that you are not afraid of the ideas of others, I think that a passage to the Commission - where we are confronted, perhaps we are facing a little confrontation, but we are going out with those further changes that the rapporteurs spoke about - then allow us to return to the Chamber and deal more calmly with a vote that, I understand, will be long enough; I would not want it to be too long, let us just leave it long. You don't waste that much time. I think you have already met me, even at the Presidency meetings we have both attended. We are always trying to make constructive proposals to improve the work of both the Government and this House. There's no obstruction, there's no opposition to it. We are making constructive proposals, we are trying to solve problems and to do so in the best possible way. I repeat, the rapporteurs have said certain things and perhaps it is right that we should all analyse them together in the appropriate forums. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u64	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, I would like to speak with reference to what Senator Falanga said earlier, and I now take up the speech of the League's Parent Company. I would like to make the following point. If, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, the House is asked to take a position which effectively interrupts the legislative process, there are senators who, pursuant to Rule 93, ask that the House subsequently be called upon to take a decision on a possible referral back to the Commission. The convenience of this referral to the Commission from our point of view would be for everyone, for a simple reason. In fact, on this issue they insist on the aspect of time and content, but if we can clarify ourselves in a quick passage to the Commission, as Mr Centinario said, on some aspects of content, the return in temporal terms can also be in the interest of the Government and those political groups that want to speed up the reform. I'll explain. As President Finocchiaro also pointed out, there is a risk that when using expressions such as "authoritarian derivatives" it will not take sufficient account of the fact that there are actually aspects of content that concern, for example, the guarantee on the path of election of the President of the Republic, actually considered specifically by the bill. I therefore believe that the benefit for the timing of the approval, meaning by this term the reference to the four passages, can be given by a further step in the Commission that allows to clarify some of the most controversial aspects of the norm and then allows us to proceed shipped both to the Senate and to the House for the definitive approval of the bill. It seems to me to be a common sense thing that I call on the leaders of the political groups to consider. We have over 7800 amendments tabled and it is therefore clear what awaits us. I believe that a move to the Commission can, on the other hand, lead to an acceleration, in reasonable terms, once certain doubts have been clarified. [[Applause from the PI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u67	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to say in this House a few days ago (but the Minister was not present at the time), that even peritonitis leaves 48 hours. And when we have to put our hands on a fundamental part of our Constitution, which is its second part, all this speed, all this raging to stay within dates that are very close, they presuppose other purposes than the willingness to make this change in Parliament's classrooms. I then had the opportunity to say that, from the procedural point of view, we had to work on an act that was not a parliamentary initiative, but rather of the Commission, which was not quite right. There has been a great deal of talk about the fact that the rules of the game are modified and we are competing to modify them all together, but it really seems a paradox that it is the Government (the power constituted at that time) that proposes this change of rules. I also believe that some form of obstruction, if necessary, we will do so, just as we experienced it when the center-right was majority in these classrooms. We will, yes, but from the point of view of the dispute over what we believe is not right. And it seems to me very strange, even from the somewhat apodictic statements that the Minister has made this morning in this House, that it is not our right to make us feel on the points on which we do not agree. It seems to me that a large part of the dispute and malumors is focused on the fact that we do not like a Senate that is not elective and its combined arrangement with Italicum (which is ready as electoral law). Basically, beyond the panagirics and the twists of words, we will be faced, when, unfortunately, this should become the law of the State, to the fact that we have practically conculcated the freedom and the right that the Italian people have to choose parliamentarians. That's what this is all about, and that's all. Therefore, we cannot understand why an animated government, to say of the Prime Minister and Minister Boschi, from all good sentiments towards the collaboration that must come in the parliamentary classrooms on these issues, gets in the head and makes this issue a boundary: as if to make the people choose their representatives is to be considered as the columns of Hercules between what is the old and what is the new. I, as a good liberal, am conservative and progressive. I tend to preserve freedom when it is threatened, and I am progressive when other spaces of freedom still need to be conquered. What I did not like and perhaps gave rise to this speech was the trenchant judgment that the Minister gave on the fact that whoever wanted to modify this plant belonged to the category of retrogrades, to the nostalgics of an Italy that in 30 years did not want to change things. Mr. Minister, you can change things for the worse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Change as such is therefore an adjectivation, but not always a positive one, because change does not necessarily mean change for the better or change what is needed for change itself. Just as I found it completely out of place - but perhaps part of the governmental dialectic - to call crazy those who are not there! Well, if I have to call Thomas More and what Erasmus said from Rotterdam in the "Morias Enkomion", hurrah God exists the "Praise of madness"! In fact, from "Il capetto a rattles" by Pirandello to "Man and Galantuomo" by Eduardo are constantly called mad all those who have an attitude of frankness, all those who fail to follow what Thomas Mann called "the highway," at the bottom of which there are always conformism, opportunism and mediocrity. [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups.]] So, let the government give us the license of fools - for the truth, I personally caught it also in other locations - God lives, Madam Minister, to say it with Eduardo, that in a famous dialect poem concludes saying "and even you meet 'to death look 'on my face no fear 'or myself, because to me it is scary 'or fool! " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) I translate: you must be afraid of fools, conformists, those who do not have the courage and freedom to express their opinions. So that you, with an angelic face and an elegant and persuasive act, give us madness just because we do not want to vote on this hypothesis of reform seems to me actually a little exaggerated. Do so, either in the Commission or outside the Commission: tell your President-in-Office that it is enough to introduce the electivity of the Senate, that it is enough to introduce preferences into Italicum! [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups.]] These elementary changes that bring sovereignty back to the people are enough, because the Senate cannot be the after-work of the Regional Councillors, nor must the sad history of a leaderism and a peronism that no longer have reason to be; the Baston leaders and party leaders are such only if they are chosen and if their political line can be confirmed by the voters. On the other hand, Madam Minister, it is better a few more fools than some rather silly courtesan servant, who bends not to the wind of his own science and awareness, but to the scranno of Minister or to the fact that he has to say yes to the powerful on duty! [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Misto-MovX and Misto-ILC groups and Senator Bonfrisco.]] You learn this notion, you don't treat us as people who have little sense of duty, because we don't want, we can't and we don't have to vote for this reform. It is our parliamentarians' decorum and the courage we have to say no to power. What else is liberalism, if not the limitation of powers and not granting the citizen prerogatives and rights that are not in the availability of anyone? [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Mixed-ILC, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u69	Senator Crimi has already spoken for his Group. You can only intervene if yours is a dissenting statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u70	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in fact, I am speaking with regard to the request made by my colleague, Mr Petrocelli, for the application of Rule 96 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Before the examination of the articles of the Constitutional Bill begins, he made a request not to proceed with the examination of the articles. On the other hand, I am not convinced, my colleague, also because it is essential to vote on article by article, because it all comes from a vice. The constitutional bill No. 1429 contains provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism as equals, and in relation to bicameralism as equals there are a number of amendments that improve the proposed text. Personally, I am not even an opponent of overcoming the perfect bicameralism. Indeed, I am absolutely convinced that a bicameralism differentiated, but equal, with equal dignity between the two chambers, is fundamental. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, I would like to hear your dissent or your assent to this proposal. Thank you. [[Senator Susta's comments.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to say... You can express your dissent or your assent. His Parent Company, Senator Crimi, has already abundantly explained the issue. PUGLIA (M5S). Your matter, personal, but... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm inviting you to stick to the subject, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). I stick to the subject, but in order to give an opinion, and then express what, in the end, I think it is important and necessary to do for the Senate, there is a need for an explanation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can also be synthetic in dissent. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, Mr President, I will try to shorten my speech. So, in practice, differentiated bicameralism is not a problem, but the problem lies in the fact that one of the Chambers will no longer be a Chamber with equal dignity, it will no longer be a House of People elected by the people, but simply appointed by the parties, who are already in themselves persons subject to the Government. A regional councillor, or mayor, already at the base are persons subject to the government. Then it is essential to go and vote article by article. Of course, there are some colleagues who have made some very interesting comments, but for now I remain of this idea and I really invite you to discuss it. It is true that there are so many amendments, but for example there are the amendments tabled by my colleague, Senator De Petris... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, be consistent with this invitation to discuss and abbreviate your speech. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]] PUGLIA (M5S). My colleague, Senator De Petris, has tabled a number of amendments which, in line with what I say, will see me as a signatory if she will allow it. Then it is essential to vote on article by article, because we remember that this bill was born spoiled at the base. In fact, we who are here and should vote directly on the measure - according to the proposal put forward by my colleague - are already going to bypass the principle enshrined in the Constitutional Court, in Judgment No 1 of 2014. From this principle comes the fact that we are here, but technically we are people who sit on these benches unconstitutionally. PRESIDENT. - The debate is For the second time I invite you to conclude, Senator Puglia, after which I will find myself forced to interrupt you, which I do not want to do. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, thank you for your time. Therefore, unless there is another speech or another colleague who convinces me, I am convinced that I do not entirely support my colleague Petrocelli's proposal. I thank the President for giving me the floor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, tabled by Senator Petrocelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the PD Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). Senator Puglia voted in favour!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u74	FACTORS (M5S). Senator Puglia said that if someone had convinced him, he would vote in favour. So, I tried to convince him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u75	I would refer you to the application of the Rules of Procedure, Senator Puglia. That it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u76	Mr President, as we touch on the Constitution of the country, we should start to say, with reference to Article 1 of the Constitution itself, that Italy is a democratic Republic founded on work, what form of democracy we want to give to this country. If we go to read the various parts of the Constitution, we can guess the will to take a stand on the system of local autonomy. A system that hinges on local self-governments is a system that recognizes them and, therefore, is based on a federalist principle. The word federalista seems a taboo that you absolutely never want to quote, because the word federalism recalls a political project that, although shared in operation, is opposed in terms of paternity. It seems that, with regard to this country, that everyone wants respectful of the local autonomy, if we write it black and white, this result should be the prerogative of a political party that has made this issue its own battlehorse, namely the North League. But let's undress at this point, clothes and hoods. We are not red, yellow, nor green people who want to incorporate their positions into an empire constitution and brutally, but we are a group of people who, with a political mandate, in this House should match a real Constitution, that is, a country, with the material Constitution, that is, black on white, establishing the new rules, or adapting the Constitution to the new needs of the country. In addition to including the word "federalism" in Amendment 01.1 we wanted to include the word "popolis" in Article 1. No one can make us change the idea that this country is together for the respect that we bring to each other towards the great differences, towards the great differentiations that characterize the areas and regions, that is, peoples, of this country. We are starting a constitutional reform that retraces exactly what the writings and thoughts of Professor Miglio were, which at the very least had identified three major macro-regions, which responded to three macroeconomic or socio-economic systems, which responded to cultures, methods and proud peoples each of their particularities. Why not recognize that this country is a summation of cultures, experiences, gastronomies, methods of conceiving life and work also different and, therefore, recognize in the Constitution that Italy is a group of peoples that gathers under a single system, which must be at this federalist point? Article 1, which we would like to write, is a bit the synthesis, the juice, contains the formulas of principle of these few statements that I have been able to make. What we would then like to write with amendment 01.2 which amends Article 5 of the Constitution is the completion of what is already in the Constitution, namely that the methods of legislation refer to the principles of federalism, autonomy and decentralisation and that the principle of subsidiarity is observed in the allocation and performance of public functions. We must say this in the first articles, although this is later stated in the Constitution. Let us remember in this regard how much we have fought in the past years for the principle of subsidiarity to be incorporated into the Constitution; we have managed to incorporate it twice in Article 118. We have included it in the first paragraph, where we talk about the method and how it is legislated in this country, based on the principles of subsidiarity, differentiation and adequacy, and we have repeated it in the fourth paragraph, again in Article 118, where we are also talking about a transversal public-private relationship, that is, the citizens' initiative. Even the latter, if it is in the general interest, responds to the principles of subsidiarity: do not ingest the State where the citizen can do much better, where the association of citizens can do much better, where the private enterprise can do much better. These principles, which we have succeeded in incorporating into the Constitution with the last reform of 2001, are good that they appear at the very beginning, in the first 12 articles, in the fundamental principles, precisely to point out that the action of the Government, and of Parliament accordingly, will be inspired by the principle of subsidiarity. Do not do the central government what the Regions can do, do not do the Regions what the municipalities can do much better, thus adapting to this sacred principle, which was also understood by the legislator of 2001, but that it is good that it appears in the first 12 articles, that is in the fundamental principles on which the Italian Republic is organized. In addition to the principle of subsidiarity, we cannot overlook another principle to which the European Union refers, namely the principle of the self-determination of peoples. On this principle have been written tomi, an infinite number of texts and essays, but there has always been modestness in integrating this expression into the fundamental texts, the Constitutions of States, as if to mean that if the right of self-determination is enshrined in the Constitution, automatically the right to secede, for any component or part of the country, people, region or other, is triggered, because this is the natural consequence of the affirmation that there is a suprastate, anti-state, lending right of self-determination of peoples. If in Article 5 our Constitution writes that local self-government is recognized, it means that they are not established because the Constitution constitutes this type of local authority, this type of entity subordinated or superordained to others: the term "recognises" has a historical value. The term "recognises" means that the Italian Republic recognizes the local autonomy as pre-existing, that the Republic incorporates a series of bodies pre-existing to the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u77	I invite you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u78	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I would ask you for less than a minute to finish, Mr President. From the moment that already exists in the Constitution the expression "recognises (...) the local autonomy" can be accepted our amendment 01.4 aimed at adding to Article 12 of the Constitution the prediction that each Region has as its symbol its own flag and its own anthem, pre-existing even to the Italian Constitution. Let us hope, at least, that on these issues not of the second floor, such as the flag and the anthem of each region, which really means giving effect to the recognition of autonomy, our amendments will be accepted, because their inclusion in the Constitution would really be a great thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u79	Mr President, I would also like to put forward a number of amendments, again with regard to Article 1, which I wanted to refer to two amendments which I signed and which were signed by the whole Group, in particular Amendment 1.1947. I'm gonna make a premise right now. Precisely because our Group has no will to obstruct this whole package of amendments referred to in Article 1, we will focus on motivating and arguing on the substance of the most important amending proposals for us, which means the North League's will to continue to make its own improvemental contribution to the reform text, as has been done in the Commission, and making what we believe are common sense proposals that can be shared by the House and by colleagues from the other Groups. With Article 1 we deal in particular with Articles 55 and 56 of the Constitution, which are the first fundamental articles that give the installation of the new type of Senate that we are drawing, of the new type of Chamber that we want to carry forward, which must be truly representative of the Regions and territorial autonomy. Our amendments go in this direction: to strengthen a real institutional role, to represent the territories, as it should be in this constitutional bill. Many constitutionalists have spoken in the Commission to discuss how this institutional representation should be understood, with regard to the presence of the regions, other local authorities and municipalities. With this in mind, we discussed, in particular, what should be the most correct composition of the new Senate, with representatives drawn, precisely, from the Regional Councils and from among the Presidents of the Councils, but also with representatives of the Municipalities-metropolitan cities and mayors of the Town Councils. Then we were also asked - and are being asked - how many of these presences should be there, i.e. how many mayors can be representative. Let us remember that the new Senate, as articulated in the constitutional bill, exercises the legislative function, while the mayors are an expression of administrative function. In this regard, therefore, a first real debate was immediately identified: we wondered whether, within the legislative function that the new Senate also has to exercise, is fair and justifies - and, in the case, to what extent - the function of representation of the mayors. For us it is important that there is a true representation of the territories and, therefore, that there are also the mayors representing the most important cities and municipalities: we believe that it is right to extend the audience of the members of the new Senate. But we believe that priority should be given to what are the regional functions and that representation in the new Chamber that we are going to draw is indeed an expression of the fundamental role of the Regions, that is to say to safeguard the territories, to exercise legislative functions in the best and most effective way to give concrete answers to the needs of the citizens who are living in a given territory. We have also tabled amendments to this effect - which have been accepted in the Commission - which went with a view to genuine democratic representation. In particular, we have demanded - and fortunately the proposal has been accepted by the rapporteurs - that there should be a proportion of the population living in the various regions. I remember that the original text presented by the Government was unacceptable on the point precisely because, first of all, Regions such as Veneto or Lombardy - which respectively have 5 and 10 million inhabitants - had a number of senators (six) equal to that of the smaller Regions (such as Molise) or the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, who were entitled to have more representatives also because of their specialty. This was unacceptable, and fortunately - I repeat - our proposal has been accepted, so the sacrosanct principle of proportion to the resident population has been established. With Amendment No 1.1947 which I referred to, we ask that the new Senate should first of all have the name "Senato delle Autonomie" (Senate of the Autonomies), since the text that came out of the Commission, which is now before us, still bears the words "Senato of the Republic" (Senato of the Republic): it would have been more just and consistent with the reformist and federalist system that we are trying to draw - in our view, to the truth, still too little federalist - to speak of "Senato of the Autonomies" (Senato of the Autonomies), because this is the way we want to give: genuine representation to the territories. In any case, beyond the name, the substance is important to us. We therefore call for a change: instead of saying that the new Senate represents the territorial institutions, it is essential for us to stress the fact that it represents the regions and other territorial self-governments. In all the amendments, we have also, and above all, tried to influence the functions that the new Senate must have. Mr President, I reserve the right to comment later on the amendments to the other articles, when we then debate the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which is very close to our heart, because it outlines the powers and functions that the new House exercises in compliance with the exclusive legislative competence of the State, on the one hand, and of the Regions, on the other, so that we shall debate in the examination of Articles 116 and 117 of the Constitution. It is important here, however, to make premises. In order for there to be a real link between the new Senate and the territorial autonomy and articulation, it is important to give this reform a true and democratic sense of representation. In our view, these amendments are intended to clarify the meaning of our proposal in a better way. I shall then move on to another amendment which is very close to our heart, the 1.0.7, which refers to Article 56 of the Constitution. Many other Members have tabled as many significant amendments concerning the sore point, which remains open, of the whole reform system, namely the system of election of the new Senate. We have put forward a well-structured proposal, in our view of common sense. There are two alternative proposals which also affect the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. We feel it is unfair that the Senate should be affected by a composition of 100 senators, in the sense that we are in favour of a reduction in the membership of Members, but we feel that it is equally unfair to leave the number of 630 Members in the other branch of Parliament. This is because, when Parliament decides, decides, exercises its legislative function in a common sitting, in matters where this is envisaged, it will certainly lead to an imbalance and a sort of Bulgarian Parliament will be created. If we then think - and we have also stressed this in our speeches in general debate - that the House of Deputies will be elected with the system provided for by the so-called Italicum, we believe that the mechanism that will be determined will be very, very dangerous and profoundly unfair. It is an electoral system that still includes the nominations from political secretaries, without listening to the direct voice of the people, without the system of preferences and, therefore, with a Chamber that will respond exactly to the Executive because it will be created to its size and image. We feel that it is profoundly wrong to foresee such a system. I say immediately that we are in favour of the end of the perfect and equal bicameralism, to its overcoming. We believe it is time to go further, but we need to be very careful about how we are going to designate the reform system. With our amendment we propose that the number of Members... [[The microphone of the Senator Biinella is switched off automatically]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u80	Senator Biinella, please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u81	Bisinella (LN-Aut). ...to be reduced from 630 to 400 (we have also made perhaps a common sense formulation of 500 Members), providing for the maintenance of the foreign constituency and making eligible all voters who have completed the eighteenth year of age. We expect that the distribution of seats between the districts will be carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants as shown by the last census of the population, distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones. We consider this to be a system of common sense which justifies itself and balances relations and the system of power between the two branches of Parliament. I therefore call on my fellow Members to reflect on this. Many groups have tabled amendments to this effect. I believe that this is the right place to carry out the necessary in-depth discussions and also to reach an approval of the proposals put forward. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senators Bell and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u82	I would point out, Mr President, that we have agreed with Senator Companione on what amendments our Group has tabled. I would like to comment on Amendment 01.5, which concerns the amendment of Article 21 of the Constitution, by which I and the other signatories propose to add Article 21-a, which reads as follows: It is the right and duty of every citizen to exercise individual or collective resistance to acts of public authorities that violate fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by this Constitution. First of all, I would like to make it clear that resistance obviously takes place in the context of laws and regulations, and that this type of law must then be regulated in the context of codes, so that it cannot be understood in any way as an arbitrary right and, least of all, as a right which can give rise to acts of violence or illegality. We propose this type of formulation because, at a time when the system proposed to us by the Government is clearly liberticidal for us, in the sense that there is the obvious deprivation of being able to intervene directly in the choice of parliamentarians by the citizens, I believe that recognising and exercising the right to resistance against any form of taxation is one of the elements that can characterize the so-called open societies, which according to Karl Raimund Popper, are those in which all the divergent opinions are admitted and there is the only foreclosure against the intolerant. I say this not because this is a minor issue, but because I believe that those who are going to radically amend the Constitution of this State - as I said just now to the Minister - must first of all raise the question of the so-called negative rights, that is, that part of the rights that are not in the availability of any power or any authority. The wider the range of negative rights, the wider the scope for freedom and protection for the citizen compared to the State's, often legislative, invasion, and to attempts to co-arrange these same rights. I do not discover anything, because it is clear to the bystanders that this theme was introduced by John Locke, the father of liberalism, who said: "Anyone who uses force without right, as in society, the case of those who do so without legal permission, places himself in a state of war with those against whom he uses it, and in that state all previous ties are cancelled, all other rights cease, and everyone has the right to defend himself and resist aggression." And then he added: The use of force among persons who do not recognize superiors on earth, or in cases which do not allow an appeal to a judge on earth, is really a state of war in which only the call of heaven remains. Colleagues, if I may, I would also like to mention the most well-known among my fellow casertans, St. Thomas Aquinas, who, especially in the famous disquisition on the three rights of the (Human lex, the natural lex and the divine lex) and on the relations between these laws, found the good right of men to resist with respect to every form of tyranny because, even through formally and legally valid means such as laws, imposition and tyranny disturb the balance between that there is between lex naturalis and the divine lex. In essence, we expect the amendment of the Constitution to widen the range of instruments that the citizen has to defend from the State, which - I remind myself - is a legal convention freely accepted and chosen by the citizens, who - it should be pointed out - boast of the rights and freedoms that are prior to the State itself. Therefore, expanding the range of safeguards, citizens' healings, with respect to all forms of coercion and tyranny, I believe, gives the complete sense of a reform of the Constitution that makes the state lose weight as such. I do not want to mention Ernesto Rossi and his work on the law and freedom, that is, on the overkill of the State through legislation, on interference and on the subalternity that he creates in the administered and in the citizens, but I believe that the principle on which our request for amendment of Article 21 of the Constitution is based goes in that sense, namely that the State keeps the citizens in consideration that they are part of itself, not a different part of itself; a State, just to clarify us, that in regulating relations with the citizens treats them as subjects, was nothing more than because it has a specific right, the administrative one, when the civil code would have sufficed to settle all the insurgent disputes between citizens and the State. That is what I reminded Mr Boschi a moment ago. It is not enough to want to change in order to seem progressed compared to others; the change can be positive or negative: the positive sign introduces within the Italian Constitution the widest margin of discretion and possibility of the citizen to defend himself from the State. On the other hand, what is the furrow between the left and the right today? I believe that it is between statesmen and liberals, even if Mrs De Petris this morning blamed a fantastic economic liberalism on the social and economic crisis in which the country fell. On the contrary, I believe that freedom of the market has been lacking. Remember that we live in a country in which the State is the main entrepreneur and in which Article 48 of the Constitution (it too must be the subject of an amendment) subordinates private activity and free initiative to the social purpose, as if the social word could subvert the law of demand and supply and free trade between free men. I mean to say that it would be appropriate to lay down in the new Constitution that individuals, citizens, know how to take care of themselves and that the State cannot be the Leviathan, cannot be the wolf of Hobbes, but must be the one who harmonizes without invading the freedoms of citizens. [[Some senators raise their hands and beg to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u83	Instead of this system for which anyone raises his hand to ask to speak, I would prefer to have, from time to time, a list of those who want to speak and what amendments to give order to the debate. It is not possible that at the same time I raise my hand twenty or thirty senators, I think to speak on the amendment that has just been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u84	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u85	It is a practice for requests for intervention on the order of business to arrive first in writing to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u86	CRIMI (M5S). I would like to ask you to speak about a problem related to the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, my speech is on the order of business on what we are dealing with now, namely the amendments. I understand that we are working under very special conditions, with these numbered tomes 1 and 2, obviously linked to political motives, in our opinion forced by the government that wanted to impose these rhythms. But in this dossier - and I am sorry, but it is a problem related to the way in which it was carried out and at the time, since the offices had to work until 1 or 2 o'clock at night, as we have seen and acknowledge - there are several errors: repeated amendments and numbers allocated to more than one amendment. Of this - we repeat - we do not want to blame the offices because, under the inhuman conditions on which they had to work to satisfy the whims of the Government, it is plausible that people make mistakes. We have found in no time, on this tome of over a thousand pages, at least seven or eight errors and repeated amendments, but ours has been a quick look, so there will be many more. At this moment, under these conditions, until mistakes are detected, I ask - and that is why I made it clear that my intervention was urgent - for the offices to at least try to solve the problem and give us a definitive answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u87	Thank you, Senator Crimes, so we can take advantage of your report so that we can make an assessment by the offices. Moreover, pursuant to Rule 100 (9) of the Rules of Procedure. On all the amendments tabled to the same article, a single debate takes place, beginning with the presentation by the authors, and anyone who wants to speak. But in order to give order to the work, I would ask you to provide a list of those who have to intervene and what to do. CRIMI (M5S). She's on her way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u90	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to help us in this regard, by calling the number of the amendment in progressive order, so that we can all give ourselves an order in this marasma. [[Applause from Senators Morra and Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u91	Maybe I didn't make myself clear. Anyone who wishes to do so can intervene on all the amendments tabled on an article, so it is not me who calls the amendments. MARTELLI (M5S). But you just told us to give us an order and I'm asking you to call the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I was referring to the order of speakers, not the order of amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u93	Are you also on the order of business? FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I had also compared myself with the offices on the history of applying the last part of paragraph 9 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, and we considered what the precedents were. The precedent for the 2004 debate is not very clear, but the most recent was the discussion of the draft laws coming from the Justice Commission, especially when they concerned the amendment of articles of the Code. In the past, the Presidency had taken the decision to unify the debate on amendments referring to the same paragraph of the article under discussion, which almost always refers to the same part of the legal order, so as to combine, beyond its membership of the article, the meaning. I also talked to Mr Calderoli about this, but you saw that you too, Mr President, were working on that subject. The confusion arises - the tome of the amendments I had not seen before and therefore President Crimes is somewhat right - because up to now we have dealt with the amendments, let us say, zero, which concern the articles of the Constitution until 54, i.e. before 55 which is the first with which, together with Article 1 of the draft law under discussion, we are dealing with the issues already dealt with in the Commission. There is therefore some confusion (but the Presidency and the Offices will certainly have focused it), because I do not know how we will proceed with the amendments concerning Part I of the Constitution, i.e. Articles 13 to 21. However, I wanted to call for the attention of the offices and the Presidency, which will certainly be there, to identify the main subjects of Article 1 so that we can have a debate on those, and only on those, on the basis of our proposal, which has a certain organisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u94	Colleagues, in order to understand us and to give an order to the explanation of the amendments, I will announce that I will give the floor to all those who are first signatories to the amendments, and then, after this phase has been completed, anyone will be able to speak on the issues on which he thinks he is doing so. I repeat, we will follow this order: I will give the floor to the first signatory of each amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u97	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in order to facilitate the order of business, I withdraw Amendment 1.0.102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonfrisco, is the amendment only signed by you? BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). No, others too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u98	Mr President, I will only present Amendment No 1, 1990.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u99	The amendment is on page 770.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u100	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I see that it is very fast and more efficient than I am, despite the fact that I had to be prepared. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. CRIMI (M5S). The amendment in question seeks to amend Article 55 of the Constitution. It is an amendment that seeks to identify for this Senate functions, in our opinion, more suited to the type of Senate that is supposed to be in this reform. This is also a proactive and non-obstructionist amendment, as you can see. We have presented only 200 in total, and on this article there are 25, all of common sense. This amendment starts from the idea of accepting also the possibility of modifying the bicameralism, of modifying the functions between Senate and Chamber. In it we want to better characterize the functions of the Senate, in particular with regard to the control of public administrations. As is said in the tome (which, as the President pointed out, is quite big), the Senate exercises the functions of controlling the activities of public administrations. Senate as High House, Senate as a guarantee. Then, for example, this is one of the fundamental activities that you could exercise, obviously imagining an elective Senate. In fact, all these amendments - and we must anticipate this - have always been tabled in the hope that at the last moment this House will repent and at least universal suffrage for the Senate will be confirmed. "Checking the implementation of the laws of the State" The laws of the State are all passed by the Chamber of Deputies alone on the basis of this bill. Well the Senate, as a guarantee body, of course by universal suffrage and - let us imagine - even with a clearly proportional system and therefore without any deformation linked to the majority prize, can exercise control of implementation. If we think about how many implementing decrees are missing on the rules currently being passed by these Chambers, we realize how necessary it is that in the end there is a body that carries out a verification. Obviously the verification must also include, in the absence of regulations and secondary rules, ordinary laws providing for sanctions because, at this point, the time comes for sanctions. This is a measure we have always asked for in the Commission: every time we derogate and every time we make the extensions there is always a non-compliance that is never punished, and this non-compliance extends for years and years. I leave out the expression 'as well as the monitoring and evaluation of public policies'. Then the amendment says: "He contributes to expressing" and this is one of the important changes before examination of the candidates, opinions on the appointments within the competence of the Government." We found ourselves, on more than one occasion, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to have to express opinions on the appointments made by the Government: one on all, that of the president of ISTAT. This is not a figure like many others, because it also influences economic policy and its opinion is important in so many economic choices and economic development of this country. Well, the opinion was given, by a vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the basis of a proposal from the Government. However, the proposal was ultimately armored: that is, it was a proposal to vote on, and that is all. And we saw how it went. Perhaps only on the anti-corruption authority did we manage to find a convergence. In this case we would like it to be the Senate Chamber, this Senate guarantee, this Upper House (if we still want to give it this role), which undertakes to express an opinion, possibly binding, regarding the appointments of the Government. It participates in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of European Union legislation and policies. This is another aspect. We have repeatedly complained that, in the ascending phase, the Italian Parliament has failed to be incisive. President Finocchiaro, during a hearing, pointed out to us that the Italian Parliament is one of the most productive, in terms of opinions, in the ascending phase, and we acknowledge this. We miss, though, maybe something more. This productivity of opinions, in fact, leads to what? If we give exclusivity and specialization to the Senate, in particular on this type of activity (the ascending and descending phase), since relations with the European Union also directly form part of the activity of territorial institutions, such as the Regions and individual municipalities, then the role of the Senate in this relationship is important. Therefore, not only a Senate that looks inside, not only a Senate that looks at its territorial autonomy, but a Senate projected to look at the role Italy has in Europe: a role that has always been carved out as a role relegated to a corner. Perhaps, if one of the two chambers were particularly specialized and advanced at this stage, including with specific powers and committees, looking not only at the general Commission on European policies, but at deepening the individual themes of European policies, perhaps we would be more incisive and perhaps our opinions would be more listened to and more legitimate. This would be a possible vision. This amendment shows, once again, how our intention was a positive and proactive one, obviously linked to some stakes that the Government has placed, on which we do not agree and of which we will continue until the end to ask for the modification: starting from the instruments of participatory democracy, direct democracy, the propositive referendums, the laws of popular initiative until universal suffrage. In fact, any change in the prerogatives of the Government vis-à-vis Parliament must be offset by similar counterweights, in order to guarantee minorities and Parliament, to ensure that the Government does the Executive and that Parliament does the legislative. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u101	Mr President, I will gladly present Amendment No 1,1444, which is based on my firm consideration, namely that everything we are doing, although moving from the possibility provided for in the Constitution of constitutional amendments by Parliament (Article 138), is actually exorbitant from that prediction, however existing it may be. In fact, this prediction was assumed when the constituent Assembly itself had foreseen a Parliament consisting of two Chambers whose electoral system at that time was proportional and therefore a system of guaranteeing the presence of all the country's political sensibilities in that Chamber, just as they had been present through the election of the constituent Assembly. But more, this amendment of mine is based precisely on the genesis of our Constitution, which was then wanted precisely through a separate instrument, which was that of the constituent Assembly, considering since then, although immediately having entered the democratic era of the country's life, that the constitutional structure should not be subjected, in its elaboration and definition, to the conditioning of the daily activity of Government. And we find that today. There has certainly been excessive use in this House of the government's possible interference with the decisions that Parliament must take with regard to the constitutional change, and I want to say that, if this were to happen, i.e. if there were excessive interference, it would not be the Government's fault but the parliamentarians' fault, who let themselves be influenced by the contingents of majorities and the Government when they are called to play a constituent role which, I would also say, for the facts of history, is certainly above their prerogatives or even - perhaps my term is improper - of their level. The problem is this: the Constitution, in order to be reformed in its structural phase, where weights and counterweights, which are typical of all the western Constitutions, that is, of all the democratic Constitutions whatever their institutional form, whether monarchy, republic or otherwise, has the need to be adopted in a context of absolute sterilization from the possible influences of the daily activity of Government. I therefore propose, with amendment 1,1444, that a constituent Assembly be elected, which for two years - but could also be shorter - can draw up an entire constitutional text, complete with all those changes that, then we will notice over time, are missing from this bill. This bill in fact intervenes on some things and, not because of those who have laid it down or who discuss it, but certainly because of a lack of depth dedicated only to this topic, we will realize that it lacks some counterweights, some collateral interventions, some of those essential elements to a true democracy accomplished, such as what our country wants to have. I therefore believe that some of the measures of this amendment, but above all the main consideration, that of giving a constituent Assembly the rewriting of the Constitution, can define a true and epochal reform. The reform that we are about to examine, in fact, as I said in my speech in the general debate, is only epochal because it captures an era: an era of certainly weakness of politics, especially of parliamentary politics, with respect to the strength and overpower that is clearly highlighted here, of regional policy, of intermediate levels and of the politics of territorial authorities with respect to parliamentary and state politics. It is clear that there are also measures in this amendment which I consider to be useful and essential, such as the fact that the constituent assembly cannot at the same time be parliamentary and that it cannot be parliamentary in the first legislature immediately following the drafting of the new text of the Constitution, precisely in order to separate and avoid any possibility of contact and therefore possible conflict of interest between one function and the other. Instead, with this reform we are in the midst of a clear sequence of conflicts of interest: for example, that of a Senate that must abolish itself or the conflict of interest of the regional councillors, who must elect their representatives in the Senate, who will then have to control the laws and the work that they themselves carry out. There is a resounding accumulation of conflicts of interest, which will not really make our country a good service. At the beginning of my amendment 1,144 there is a principle to which the constituent Assembly could not fail to conform, namely that of the reduction of parliamentarians, which is certainly shared by the very large majority not only of public opinion, but also of ourselves, also in order to be more streamlined in the examination of laws, which is not only due to the introduction of the 'cuttle time', but also to the possibility of it being carried out by a smaller number of parliamentarians, in the Chamber and in the Commission. Therefore, the reform cannot be just a matter of economy: we have seen, in fact, from the accounts that some of us - including myself - have been allowed to illustrate to this assembly, that the causality of the reduction of public expenditure resulting from the decrease of the number of parliamentarians or from the change of the composition of a branch of Parliament, like the Senate, is so infinitesimal, not only with respect to the budget of the State, but also with respect to the waste of resources of the territorial autonomys, of the Regions, of the regional councils, of the societies participated both of the Regions and of the Municipalities, that it would really be laughable. So it would only be demagogic populism to indicate as the motivation of the reform the decrease in public spending. It has also been shown that, not only nominally, but also in fact, there would be no such reduction. Therefore, this amendment aims to lead to a rethinking of the method of reforming the Constitution and its timing is absolutely compatible with those of this legislature, because between the possible approval of this rule entirely replacing the draft reform law and the time allowed to the constituent Assembly, we will arrive at the end of the legislature. So, even with consistent timing, we could have a country that has been completely reformed in its constitutional balance since the next legislature. It is clear that what I am writing cannot, must not and can never be absolutely mandatory, but what I want to say to my colleagues is the principle of the method. As I have already said in my general speech, I must say that on all the criticisms - and, in this case, also on this proposal - I always find the conceptual agreement of my colleagues and I do not believe that it is a consensus of facade or motivated by piousness, because I think that no one needs my benevolence or anything else: whoever has my friendship and my esteem would still have it. The sharing of the principle is widespread among the benches of this Parliament and I believe that, if it were to be put to the examination of the individual will of each of us, it could find a majority acceptance. That is why I would ask my fellow Members to consider Amendment No 1.1444. Mr President, I look forward to your mention of the other amendments. Can I proceed with their illustration?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u102	The order of business requires that each senator intervenes for a single time on the amendments to each article. If you have other interventions to do, you may proceed, Senator D'Alì, but I remind you that your time has actually already expired.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u103	I have a speech to make, on behalf of and on behalf of Senator Azzollini, who is a signatory to Amendment 1.1555 with me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u104	All right, Senator D'Alì, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u105	D'ALI' (NCD). It is an amendment which states that the Parliament of the Nation is composed only of the House of Deputies. I now announce to you that we are going to ask for this amendment, because it is clear that the decision whether Parliament should be composed of the Chamber of Deputies alone, or the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, is for us to take after we have defined the text that draws up the new Senate. In fact, the text that comes out of the Commission's proposal does not draw a new Senate, but the diction "Senate of the Republic" is a bit of a fig leaf, which hides a whole other reality than a House of Parliament: it hides a strengthening and the introduction into constitution of the State-Regions Conference or the unified Conference (because there are also mayors). It therefore does not correspond to the characteristics of a genuine branch of Parliament. We would suggest, if the Commission's text were to remain the final one, that we had the courage to call things by their name and surname: a reinforced unified conference that does not need to be incorporated into the Constitution, but can very well be decided by ordinary law, as it was constituted at the time. Therefore, the National Parliament should confine itself to the Chamber of Deputies alone. As Senator Minzolini said in his speech in general discussion, rather than this Conference disguised as a Senate or this Senate as a screen for something that is not a Chamber, it is better to abolish the Senate, Mr President. I believe I am one in this Parliament, if not the one who has the greatest presence for time and years, having spent all the legislation, from 1994 to today, always in this Parliament. So think with what regret I can point to such a situation. But the defence of the dignity of the Senate also passes through the courage of its abolition, rather than through its mystification, or camouflage, through its name, of something that is completely different. Let's give each one his own. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u106	Mr President, I rise on Amendments Nos 1,714, 1,1715 and 1,1448. As I have just mentioned, it is our intention - and I believe it is the intention of the majority in this House - to achieve a change in our institutional system by overcoming the perfect bicameralism. In our intentions this can be achieved, but the balance of powers that allows the system to be guaranteed with respect to changes by one of the future majorities of government must be unchanged. We believe that, for this to happen, two aspects are fundamental: the election by universal and direct suffrage of the Senate (so the investiture of the senators by a direct vote by the people, to which - I remind myself - the Constitution, in Article 1, attributes sovereignty) and the functions that make the Senate a Chamber with effective powers, which we consider to have been absolutely disregarded in the draft law of the Government, so we asked the Commission for this to be exceeded and not considered as a basic text. We are now faced with a very large number of amendments, but this is not due to a obstructive intention, as regards the need to correct a text which the majority of us in this House regards as very distant from the one desirable for the reform of the Senate and, with it, the legal order. There are two components to the amendments I have asked for: in Amendment 1,1714 there is the hypothesis of a Senate with 100 members and a Chamber of Deputies with 400 members, while in Amendment 1,1715 there are 150 new senators and 350 new Members. Why this? We must take account of the fact that, where the two Assemblies function in common sitting, in particular in the election of the President of the Republic or in the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, it is to be avoided that one of the two Chambers has a clear preponderance over the other, where the Chamber of Deputies as, in the bill which the Government has presented and which has already been approved in the Chamber, is elected with a majority system, rather than a majority system, hyper-majoritarian. This is to prevent the election of the President of the Republic and the definition of the Constitutional Court, for the part of Parliament, from being subject to the will of the majority. We consider that the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court is partially appointed by the President of the Republic and partly elected by Parliament in common sitting and where the President of the Republic is an expression of a political majority, would necessarily be biased, which no system that wishes to maintain the guarantee of its own preservation and preservation of its spirit can accept. In practice, with the balance of the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies compared to that of the senators of the Republic, we would avoid this net preponderance. Of course this is important to the extent that the senators - as I said before - are directly elected by the electoral body, thus by universal and direct suffrage. That's for the composition. As far as the functions of the House and the Senate are concerned, and as a indication of what we mean when we talk about overcoming the perfect bicameralism, we have all had the opportunity to point out that the system of producing the laws has moments of slowness, therefore not of slowness desired and necessary for a better reflection on the text, but of real slowness, of diseconomy of time. To this end, we have tabled a draft law, the text of which is translated into the amendments I am talking about. We have presented a hypothesis of bicameralism equal, but differentiated in functions, where the function of government control, with the expression also of trust, is attributed to the Chamber of Deputies (and here it may make sense to talk about simplifying the representation of the system with correctives, such as thresholds or small majority prizes, but not what is imagined by the Government), while the Senate of the Republic is attributed laws of wider scope: we have imagined and proposed to attribute to the Senate of the Republic, for example, the function of approval of the laws delegated and therefore also of opinions on the acts of the Government that are implementing those laws and we have imagined to assign to the Senate of the Republic also the relations between the State and other infrastatal bodies, therefore the local authorities and the Regions, but also the relations with the European Union both in the ascending phase, and therefore participation in the formation of European standardization, both in the descending phase, therefore of implementation of European norms. With this type of differentiation, we imagine that productivity can be improved, that is, the ability to produce norms in a shorter time and therefore perhaps even more appropriate to the rhythms of the development of the economic and social life of a modern country, while maintaining the depth of analysis that we consider necessary and the openness to political minorities that allows the assumption, within the procedure of formation of the laws, of dissent. We imagine, in fact, that with a system that reduces representation, simplifying it exceedingly and magnifying the performance of parties with the highest consensus, basically put political minorities out of the Senate and extra-parliamentary opposition, with risky effects for the very balance of the system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. That is why we have asked for a re-analysis of this draft law in the Commission: because we thought that its overall re-analysis would allow a re-examination of these majorities in this House and at the same time allow for its harmonic re-elaboration, given that what we will achieve with the adoption of these amendments, which I naturally invite you to vote on, risks having the need for subsequent coordination, if it happens in a spot way, with the adoption of individual amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u107	Mr President, I would like to explain my first signature of Amendments Nos 1,1450 and 1,1451, of which I am co-signatory. I refer back to the theme of the elective Senate, but not elected by the people. The choice of a Senate with 100 members was motivated mainly by the speech of savings: having a Senate with fewer attendances implies a saving of parliamentary allowances. Several times it has also been said in general debate that, apart from the fact that it is true that parliamentary allowances are being saved for the missing 215 senators, and so perhaps there is a saving of both parliamentary allowances and reimbursements, in fact for these 100 senators will still, quite rightly, be reimbursements. In all cases, if we focused solely on saving, we could still achieve it by affecting the House of Deputies, in some way comparing the number of Members of Parliament to that of the senators: in this way we would certainly have a Parliament made up of a smaller number of elements. Currently this number is around 1,000 units, so dividing by two, with 500 people we could have both an elective Senate and an elective House. Amendments 1,1450 and 1,1451 therefore aimed to have on the one hand a Chamber of Deputies elected, with 250 Members, and on the other 250 Senators. Several times it has been recalled the need to make the citizens, the people, participate, several times it has been said that there is a wider democracy also through representation within the institutions chosen by the people who are outside, by those who have the right to vote. At the same time, this would allow to be found within these classrooms, not subjects belonging to a single party, but subjects that also represent minorities, both those of small parties and linguistic ones. There would thus be a set of heterogeneous, non-homogeneous subjects characterized by the diversity that often enriches the debate and the choices that are made within Parliament, given that more heads of different cultures, different social backgrounds and ages are certainly bearers of added value in the debate that takes place within the House and in the Commissions. As we have seen and heard these days too, a constitutional reform is decided and many of the parties belonging to the majority and will give their assent to this constitutional reform do not share it. However, they feel obliged to vote on it in any case, as they belong to that political party and to that political group, in spite of - as is usual - Article 67 and the freedom of mandate: it is said, in fact, that, if one belongs to a political group, that must be adhered to, beyond the fact that there is an interest or not. It makes me think that for many of the current senators, me first (as I have often said also within the 5 Star Movement Group, to which I belonged before), "Miss Italia ends here." For me this is the first and last lap: I'm definitely not attached to the chair. For many senators, Miss Italia ends here: they have also made the first round - since there are many new senators in this House, at their first term - even if they still hope for a second round, rather than as senators, as Members. That is why they are somehow bending or agreeing to make a choice for the Senate today, which is in the perspective that we are discussing, precisely because they have the hope, one day, to return to Parliament in the House of Deputies. I find this really sad, especially if I think as a citizen, as citizens are all of you here, because everyone in here is first and foremost an Italian citizen. I, however, am not a subject of life-long politics: I am a subject of public employment and I will return to where I was, in another category, that of health care. Some of you, on the other hand, will remain to decide, as we do today, on laws to which I too as a simple person and citizen will have to submit and I regret to think that who will then legislate in the near future will still be a person tied to the chair, in some way blackmailable precisely because he wants to be in here. I understand that being in here is an honor (and a burden) very high, but one must not feel bound in any way to the power that one has for sitting in these rooms, or to his return and personal ego: one must feel free and try to do things in the best way possible, because it is the future of so many people, of 60 million Italians, not just of the thousand heads that are in Parliament today. I therefore urge everyone once again to think about how to reform the Constitution in a more balanced way. At the end of the day, many people are asking that this Senate be elected, always to guarantee that plurality of vision to which I have referred before. That is what I shall continue to ask, and I shall continue to vote for it, through the amendments tabled by myself and many other Members from other political groups. Thank you. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and M5S Groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u108	Mr President, in this important debate I would like to outline one of the aspects of one of the amendments I have tabled, Amendment 1.0.25, which concerns gender equality and the way in which it finally manages, in the new articulation of the functions and activities of the Chambers, to overcome the limits we receive from a legacy of the past. In other seasons important laws and legislative instruments had started us on the path of equality, but in recent times we have instead called into question in occasion of some important passages. The most important, since we are in the context of a constitutional debate, was precisely the amendment of Article 51 of the Constitution, strongly desired by the then Minister of Equal Opportunities Stefania Prestigiacomo, which introduced a further strengthening of the principle of gender equality and equal opportunities. Without, however, reaching the principle enshrined in other European constitutions of effective equality, that is, what makes a Constitution substantial, which otherwise remains on paper, does not express itself, does not develop and does not enter the animus of a country, but remains entrusted only to a cultural process, often too slow and ineffective. That is why this is one of the opportunities that we cannot miss, even if we distinguish ourselves between the promotional actions - already guaranteed by the Constitution - and those of a strong welding of this principle in the constitutional dictation, as many amendments tabled by colleagues and colleagues recall. I believe that there is no progress in the modernity of an institution if it fails to photograph the changes that have taken place within society. On this front we have seen many changes, some of which are particularly positive, such as the increasing participation of women in major economic issues, from the labour market to self-entrepreneurship, to the still vital fabric of our economy, which, in this moment of crisis, remains such for the extraordinary ability of women to divide between many roles and to succeed in innovation, to modernise in the approach also companies, after having done it in their lives, often performing miracles in reconciling their personal commitments and work. What does an institution not have to do? It must not be limited to photographing what is good is not done and the pages that we fill today with what, with pain and great concern, we call feminicide. We cannot miss the opportunity to strengthen that precious role of women in institutions, organisations, in representation as well as in other parts of our society, which is rich in participation. We cannot record the fact that, often because of a badly administered justice or a culture that arrives late, we are still here unarmed in the face of a phenomenon that, in its violence, denounces and signals a kind of alarm bell regarding a culture that does not intend to accept the equal role of women in the home, in the work and in the institutions. That is why we are faced with phenomena that we often do not even understand, that we cannot understand for their hateful ferocity, but that we know well - women know it well - to be born from a principle: that principle that always aims to deny our role in society, if not in terms that, from time to time, depending on the situation, change, but that always reduce the female one to a role of co-protagonist and not a protagonist of society and its most varied articulations, until reaching the institutions. The policy has long come late on this front, the importance of which is pointed out by some amendments - much better than mine, for example the first-signed amendment by Senator Mucchetti - recalling the actual equality in composition, which is not a matter of numbers. We who come from a long history and who have given rise to a rich debate on the issue of numbers, quotas, the defence of that role, pushing the institutions to the right, when not to know, grasp the importance of this topic, but if we cannot write it in the Constitution, we will always do the accounts, always chasing thousands of artifices or a thousand other delays because of which then all this will not happen. I am going back to saying that this is not only a question of numbers - certainly, the numbers that women ask for scare institutions used instead to do a lot of other accounts and talk about many other numbers - but a theme related to quality even more than numbers, that is to say the quality of the proposal of women. That's what you're afraid of. So not the quantity, or the sometimes almost marginal presence of women, but the strength and power of their proposals! So here we move from one stereotype to another; we find ourselves seeing growing in the debate considerations that many of us thought we had abandoned in the night of time, and that instead we all find ourselves here, considerations that concern the hair rather than the cut of the suit or other, without anyone being ever willing to recognize the value of the proposal of a woman or women as a whole. This drives me, like other colleagues in this House, to remember, reiterate and stress how much we still have to gain from the point of view of quality as institutions and how much we can do so if we can strongly consolidate this principle in our Constitution - in addition to what we have - in order to make it effective, and to pass, Mr President, as it invites us and challenges us to make this reform, an institutional structure of the Senate rather than of the Chamber of Deputies, respectful of a formal Constitution, but not of a substantial Constitution, to another respectful structure instead of a Constitution full of content, which lives among the people, among the citizens, and among them there are so many citizens who are still waiting for our response. I hope that this reform process will have the strength, the will and the courage to give a slightly more advanced response, and above all that it will be able to better interpret what has already happened in our society. However, since what is happening in our society is also a source of concern, I believe that the adoption of amendment 1.0.25, which I have tabled, like the others proposed by my colleagues and colleagues, can be a good opportunity for this reform to feel closer and better represented in the hearts and minds of our citizens. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u109	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments I have tabled and of which I am first a signatory, which insist on two aspects on which I would like to concentrate. The first is a point of principle. In my amendments I try firstly to recall the concept of representation on the part of both chambers, within which it is not each member of the House of Deputies representing the nation, but each member of Parliament, and secondly also to give indications that the Senate of the Republic represents the national community, specifying that it is a guarantee body that not only represents the autonomy but also the autonomy. That is to say that if you appoint sunt consequentia rerum, I think it is extremely important to talk about a representation of the national community. In fact, the issue we are putting ourselves in this House is actually born - I think we have to be frank about this - from a problem of representativeness, because where we are trying to divert attention by talking about timing or inefficiency, we are wronging the citizens who listen to us and to whom we must address ourselves. The problem is therefore determined by representation. I believe that, rather than providing, or before providing for a reform of the Constitution, it would have been necessary to have a real reflection on the relationship between representation, what it represents, and the very meaning of being here to build laws, all going through the concept of parties. In my opinion, in fact, here we are really serving the end of the very concept of party and, sad to say, but if there is no capacity to put on the sense of organized representation with a real approach to the people, to those who are now less and less willing to vote, there will be no reform that will allow any institution to truly reflect a general community. With this elaboration of the Senate it is thought to solve also the problem of a fact closely linked and connected to the history of our country, and to what is objectively recognizable as a difference. We are, in fact, a young country, whose collective history is, however, extremely ancient; we still have forms and minds rooted in the Roman system and culture, even before in the Christian one, however we have been subjected to historical events that make it possible to have on the one hand an extraordinary language that unites us and in which we can recognize common values, but, on the other hand, we also have regional characteristics that make harmonization difficult. In this alternation between the valorization of the Regions and that of a central government that recovers the competences and the faculty to be able to decide in place of the Regions also on issues that are fundamental, not only for the economy, but also for the future and the very fit of the Country, before making such an operation I believe that it would have been necessary to reflect on what are the real reasons why this harmonization is difficult, on what are really the intentions, the DNA and the cultural motivation that pushes this country to find common objectives that exceed the difference between the Regions. I believe that this is missing and that this is missing, that is, a real reflection on how the national community must be represented, on the reasons why legislative production has been fragmented for too many years now, difficult to read and interpret and constantly requires updates; a legislative production that is not understandable to the citizen, which is a nuisance instead of supporting the professional, social, school life, education, the research system, the exploitation of work and excellence. That's what I think we should have worked on. I have re-read the many speeches which dealt with the issue of the urgent decree because, in this different way of conceiving the legislative procedure, we are going to endorse a mechanism which is what we see here in fact implemented by the urgent decree. Many observations have been made, not so much on the timing but on the very meaning of a way of proceeding that is not organic, but always proceeds by aggregations or breakdowns. In this way Parliament, both the House and the Senate, is deprived of a comprehensive and comprehensive vision, and in the end it is difficult to formulate implementing decrees, preventing all this effort from being translated into something useful for the country. And so, instead of making a serious reflection on this point, let us remain firm on the form and not on the content. I would like to make another amendment to my first signature (amendment 1.0.34) which has been tabled in different forms by other Members, which calls for a reduction in the number of Members. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to this, because it is really incomprehensible to me - as I believe most senators in this House, but perhaps also to the citizens who could listen to us and who will eventually be able to see the result of this work - how we do not reduce the number of Members. The lack of reduction in the number of Members is a major imbalance, as has already been widely explained by other Members, but I want to follow the Government's inclination and go down in substance and practice. All this is incomprehensible because reality has already overcome these amendments, and I would like to give you some figures in this regard. The draft law on cooperation, which concerns an extremely important modification of our system for development cooperation, saw 325 Members present in the Chamber; the ratification of the Treaty with the United States for the fight against crime saw the presence in the Chamber of 377 Members, the ratification of the Treaty with Korea for exchanges of study saw 451 Members in the Chamber. It could perhaps be said that those mentioned are not relevant issues. Then I'll give you more data. The decree-law for cultural goods has seen 444 Members in the Chamber; the extension of the Commissioners for public works, 416 Members; the decree-law, urgent and relevant for my region, for the inconveniences due to the earthquake and floods, 399 Members; the decree-law competitiveness - of great importance - 479 Members; the urgent measures for the start of the school year, 381 Members; the overcoming of psychiatric hospitals, 406 Members; the decree on housing emergency, 369 Members; the revival of employment, 445 Members. I believe that the reality is the most obvious proof that the significant reduction in the number of Members can only meet what is already an organic dimension. Our Members meet in a number ranging from a minimum of 325 to a maximum of 479. I believe that very realistically we could therefore take these two extremes as the boundaries within which to move, also to encourage an effective saving that could be further deepened with a real unification of the administrative structures of the House and the Senate, which could produce significant savings. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u110	Mr President, I will present Amendments Nos 1, 1979 and 1,022, which are closely related to others tabled by other groups in the context of the amendments referred to in Article 1. The first amendment provides for an aspect which should be taken into account and which, unfortunately, as was the case during the debate these days, seems to have escaped the attention of both the internal and external debate. With this amendment it is proposed to add to the powers of the Senate everything relating to ethical matters, in the specific case, to what is dealt with in Articles 29 and 32 of our Constitution. I remind myself that Article 29 states that the Republic recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage and that marriage is ordained on the moral and legal equality of spouses with limits established by law to guarantee family unity. Article 32 states that the Republic shall protect health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community and shall ensure free care for the most deprived persons. No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law. Under no circumstances can the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. It is clear that we are talking about something that cannot be put in the background to issues such as the decrease in the number of MPs, the reform of the Senate in its composition, rather than the very modalities of composition of this Senate or the very important issues - which I stress because the North League holds us in particular - linked to Articles 116, 117 and 119 of the Government's draft Constitutional Law. We believe, Mr President, and I address all the senators, that this House should speak very carefully in this case. One of the first examples that comes to my mind concerns the first days of this Senate's activity, when the Special Commission was still set up on government acts in the referent and we were dealing with the issue related to the Stamina method. Some of you will remember those moments, most of which I fear have forgotten: a strong emotional drive and a difficulty in finding rationality in the choices and, as unfortunately often happens, the need to hastily close the measures by conceding to the pressure of the press and even more of public opinion. Now, what would happen if this issue were relegated to the work of a single Chamber, of a single branch of Parliament? What would happen if ethical issues were relegated to the sole activity of the Chamber of Deputies, neglecting the fact that in this case, since bicameralism is extremely sensitive, even if it is not perfect, having removed the competences of the Senate in relation to trust and other acts related to the founding parts of the Government (budget and what follows), could constitute a guarantee of weighting? I repeat, what would happen if a single Chamber were to take action on ethical issues with hastyness, without even the parachute of another Assembly that would allow to remedy, as was necessary in the case of Stamina, even though it has not yet been concluded today? I therefore believe that a great deal of attention should be paid to this amendment. We often have to legislate emotionally. Worried if all this were to happen for ethical issues by restricting their examination to a single parliamentary assembly. Mr President, in order for me to understand better, I will use a figurative image, that of the British who say that before drinking tea it must have passed from one cup to another until the temperature has reached an optimal state. This is the passage of refinement of the legislative process that if, out of care or haste, it can be granted by any law decree, it cannot be granted in any way when it comes to ethical issues related to the family, to the health of the person or, even more, to the well-being of the whole community. It is clear, Mr President, that we are discussing this when all the parliamentary debate seems to be directed towards other directions and, in this particular case, as I said, interest seems to be placed more on the composition of the Senate. However, I would like to reiterate that ethical issues cannot be put in the background. Mr President, I would also like to speak on Amendment 1.0.22. With this amendment, on which I believe that the attention can and should be equally wide, we intend to reduce the number of Members to 500 members, including the protection of linguistic minorities. Our system, in Article 6 of the Constitution, pays particular attention to linguistic minorities, which are not for us a flagship to show off simply as an example of late-Renaissance democracy. On the contrary, they are a founding point of what is an expression of democracy and freedom. Article 6 of the Constitution states: "The Republic protects linguistic minorities with appropriate rules." We cannot forget, in the composition of this and the other branch of Parliament, that this Article 6 cannot be limited to the provision of a special statute for certain territories, which protect linguistic minorities. Therefore, attention must also be paid to the composition of the branch of Parliament which will legislate and which will then represent as a whole, with the Senate, the whole summary of the linguistic differences and minorities of our country. In recent days we have been able to appreciate interventions, such as that of Senator Palermo, which, however, warned about the limitations that this constitutional reform brings with it, with regard to a regionalism that is undoubtedly being reduced and, unfortunately, if the text is not changed, in the course of the debate with the adoption of amendments, also relegated to a function secondary to that of the Government. The right of supremacy reserved by the Government conflicts with an example of freedom. The right of supremacy cannot be exercised as if we were in the Middle Ages, where the autocrate decides when and where to intervene, even by way of derogation from the constitutional dictation. We have understood that competing legislation, included in the current Constitution, has led to an increase in the conflict of jurisdiction brought before the Constitutional Court. In this case, Mr President, it must be stressed that it was the Government, in the vast majority of cases, that appealed to the Constitutional Court, and then tried to limit the right to competing legislation by the regions. Inserting the rule of supremacy will simply reverse the factors. It will of course be the Regions that will be bypassed by the Government and, therefore, to have to resort constantly to the Constitutional Court. Even though we hope that the reform that President Renzi is carrying out will still allow us to call the Constitutional Court a democratic and representative assembly of the country. We would not, in fact, want to hide behind all this the desire not to suffer even the annoyance of a Constitutional Court which, at the end of this reform, if it were not to be counterbalanced in parliamentary burdens, could even become simply the longa manus, the emanation, through the President of the Republic and Parliament, of those who will sit on the benches of the Government. All of this, Mr President, must be taken into account. Woe to compress freedom, trouble to compress it from linguistic minorities and from the right to the protection of health and ethical issues!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u111	Mr President, I rise to explain amendments 1,2008 and 1,2010. In particular, with regard to amendment 1,2010, I would like to ask you to correct two errors, one concerning my surname erroneously reported as "Fatiori" and the second, in the fifth line, where instead of "aventi" is written "events".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u112	We have already noted this, Senator Fattori. These are typographical errors that we apologize for. Thank you, however, for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u113	FACTORS (M5S). Of course, Mr President, it is a duty. Amendment 1,2008 concerns Article 55 of the Constitution, which I read about so that we realize what we are talking about: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two chambers only in the cases laid down in the Constitution. Amendment 1,2008 calls for the following period to be added to the fourth paragraph of paragraph 1 of Article 55: In the forms laid down by its Rules of Procedure, the Senate promotes the participation of citizens and social formations in the definition of European Union policies and legislation. It is therefore a constructive and non-obstructional amendment, as we are often accused of presenting, which entrusts the Senate with a special competence with regard to European legislation. We know that 70% of the new laws now come from the European Union, with a path that, for those who have had the opportunity to follow it, is long and complex and starts from the legislative initiative of the European Commission, which, unfortunately, as well as the House in which this Senate is to be transformed, is not elected but appointed. Already the disasters that have caused this lack of democracy in the composition of the Commission should make us reflect on the desire to reduce the Senate to a non-elective body that has to do with a non-elective organ, in short: appointed who interact with nominated bodies. Above all, the European Commission is not obliged to consult national parliaments. We know that it is the only body in charge of the legislative function and initiative and when it has to initiate a legislative initiative it consults the lobbies, but not the national parliaments. This has caused a serious problem of economic interference in European democracy which the Senate which we want to propose with this amendment could somehow overcome. We in the 5 Star Movement, also in the recent election campaign, have denounced that in recent years the spotlight on what is happening in Brussels is very few. There is very little talk about this in Parliament and the Minister for European Union Policy has even been abolished, but he helped the relevant Commissions to discuss European affairs during the Letta Government. Among other things, the Italian representatives at European Commission level have been Commissioners for Italy from time to time and it must be said that the average voter, the average citizen, does not even know who is the Commissioner responsible for Italy. The democratic role of representation in the European Commission has been somewhat abandoned and this has led us to the disaster of the European standards that arrive and it is not known that it has followed. So it is a very important role, but it has been underestimated over the years by all political forces. Let's also say that the average citizen is unknown the legislative initiatives, which from time to time have arrived in Italy, accompanied by the famous phrase: Europe is asking for this, although Europe is actually asking us for very different things. I would therefore like to invite the senators who remain in this Chamber, a little bored and a little tired, to think that Europe is not really asking for this constitutional reform. I often go to Brussels and I have to say that in this context they ask me what we are doing. That is not what Europe is asking of us, dear Minister. We are not asked by the citizens, we are not asked by Europe, we are not asked by anyone: this is probably your delirium of omnipotence. We are talking here about a Senate aimed at Europe, which could finally bridge the gap between Italy and the European Union, with multi-level governance, which, unlike what has been done in recent years, could finally create multi-level integration. You propose integration between regions and Europe; instead, we propose a very different governance, in the context of an elective Senate. This amendment is therefore functional to an elective Senate: it cannot be imagined that regional councillors and mayors, who already have to deal with the problems of the territory and have to direct the regions, with all the problems existing at regional level, can also be efficient, effective and proactive in their relationship with the European Union. Let us start by saying that this amendment makes sense if we decide to create a serious Senate: not as a home of rest and enrichment for regional councillors, more or less excluded from other political entanglements, but as a Senate made up of serious people, elected by the people, experts in European affairs and identified on the territory, being elected at territorial level. I am not just referring to a Senate elected on a regional basis, as our Constitution says, since we also propose to go further. This is a bit our mantra: we are beyond this indecent proposal, which brought us here Minister Boschi and which was illustrated by Senator Finocchiaro, and we propose participation. According to amendment 1,2008, the Senate promotes the participation of citizens and social formations, such as trade unions, associations, trade associations, social partners and the European Union's policies and legislation. We therefore propose that we add a level of governance, which is the level we care about, namely that of citizens and associations, to all this scaffolding, which seems very fragile to us, if it is thought only in the way envisaged in this very sghemba reform. In summary, the amendment under consideration provides for the participation, not only of the Senate, the Regions or the State, but above all of the citizens in the formation of the laws of the European Union, through the most appropriate forms of participation, that a Government composed of representatives so young and so linked to the computer tools (our Minister always has the iPad) will certainly be able to identify, also by electronic means or through popular consultations to be carried out also online with certified tools. The second amendment that I intend to put forward is 1 January 2010, and that is also what I would ask you to correct. This amendment also refers to Article 55 of the Constitution, which I will not recall again. In this case, let us introduce one more element, with reference to European legislation, which has often been absent from the debate in the first place. Constitutional Affairs Committee, the real role of the Senate in interaction with Europe. The amendment states: "The Senate has competence over decisions aimed at training in the ascending phase" (which is the most important in the European legislative process) and those relating to the implementation at the descending stage of the European Union's legislative acts (). So we are talking both about the first phase, in which the European Commission starts the legislative initiative, and about the bottom-up stage in which this beautiful initiative should, in theory, see the participation of the parliaments of the Member States. I say "in theory" because Italy never participates. This has been the disaster of these years in which we have put in Europe the trumpets of politics - excuse me for the term, I repeat no more - [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and unfortunately, what has happened is that European legislation has been made in the image and likeness of Germany, Holland and France, but certainly not linked to Italian territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u114	I invite you to conclude, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u115	FACTORS (M5S). I shall finish reading the amendment. The Senate will also have competence, according to this proposal, over all laws concerning regional and local authorities issues, including those having budgetary and financial effects (this is the important point). It carries out activities to verify the compliance of the laws of the State with the legislation of the European Union (which is not done here, because all the laws should pass from the 14th Commission) and elaborates impact assessments and cognitive surveys on the effects of the policies of the European Union on the national territory. Thus, even upstream of the ascending phase of sector studies. Again, such an effective and young government will have no difficulty in identifying the tools for carrying out studies of the impact of European Union laws at a very early stage, country impact (i.e. impact on Italy), even in compliance with our political programme, which concerns Mediterranean policies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u116	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 7 p.m. on Wednesday 23 July for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The honourable senators will vote first. Consequently, the afternoon sitting on Wednesday will end at 18.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u117	You, Mr President, are so kind today that you will allow me a few more minutes, because the speech I had planned to make is directed not only to the attention of the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, but also to the excellent Senator Finocchiaro. In fact, in the illustration of my amendment I have an understanding: to combine my intention with their seriousness. Senator Calderoli is an enthusiast of confitures: he takes them from time to time to help himself to bear the trouble of the Chamber. He will remember that gem of Tom Hanks, in the movie "Forrest Gump": Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what happens to you. So, being unable to fully predict whether this reform of the Constitution will take place or not, you have done a very serious job. Knowing that when there is a complex planning of the work and an even more complex proposal is presented to the House, it is very difficult to organise any amendments in this House (as long as they can arise from an emotion or a broad sharing on this or that other subject prepared in time), I have concentrated on something not very important compared to those recently dealt with. I believe, however, that it may be of some interest to the rapporteurs because of its universal importance. The rapporteurs know that, everywhere in the world, there is a principle (or, better, there is a principle in democracies), that for which the electoral system is combined with the form of State and Government, so much so that, when we started talking about the electoral system, we said that perhaps it was anticipated to talk about it because perhaps we should have talked about it after defining the form of State and Government. This, too, is a little bit about the real problem, because when we talk about a single-chamber system of fact and about trust - we are talking about trust and, therefore, not about the direct election of the President of the Council of Ministers - it is in fact introducing, without a chance of being revised, a Chancellor. And he's introducing a little Italian chancellor, because he's a chancellor in which the second chamber is called to legislate. It is said that we are making a Bundesrat, while it would be good to clarify to everyone - even to the President of the Senate, who will give me a few more minutes, because I think presumptuously that the subject might be of interest - that a recent judgment of the German Constitutional Court, making clear in a debate in very ancient doctrine over time, has established that the Bundesrat is not a legislative chamber and is not a branch of Parliament, but it is something else. That is, in Germany the system is monocameral. So when it is said that in Italy we are doing a Bundesrat (that's why I wanted to speak when Senator D'Alì tabled his amendment), we are actually introducing a chancellor and perhaps it would be better to say it clearly. The Chancellorship exists in another place in the world, in fact and in substance: in England, very ancient tradition with a system of guarantees that, as King Faruq said, when in a few years there will be no king, only the King of England and the king of cups will survive. The King of England continues to be an element of great guarantee. As Senator Chiti said, however, we must not risk driving the motorway on the contrary, because since the early years of Blair and Cameron, we are thinking of making the House of Lords elective. But this is a much more important and much more political debate; I come back to my proposal. The proposal I would make is not even to constitutionalise the electoral system. Let us bear in mind that in America the electoral system - the so-called winner-takes-all - has been constitutionalized for two hundred years and also in England. In America the head of the condominium is also elected by the one-nominary majority system. There is no system that is not. It exists only in Louisiana, of French tradition, the double turn; and they place it as a great exception. In this I know that I agree with President Finocchiaro, because she too presented a text for the reproduction of the Mattarellum in our Parliament. As a nominal fact and not as a proposal for constitutionalisation, which would be even more difficult, I make a rather more residual proposal, namely to prevent the electoral system from failing in the future because of the lack of homogeneity of electoral systems in the representation systems. I think of one of the reasons why he failed Mattarellum; let us remember the famous speech of President Scalfaro, when he said that with Mattarellum it was thought that there would be only two parties, while we found eleven, far more than there were before in the constitutional arc (there were six and there were five more). But it was clear what had happened over time: in order to mark the difference and to be able to have contractual matters in the national elections, the CCD, the UDC, the National Alliance (and those who have more of them) showed up at the regional elections so as to have a return and to be able to spend this return as a matter of advantage: I took this percentage and I am entitled to many seats. Many constitutionalists say - President Finocchiaro knows this, because he is not only president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also a very attentive reader of the doctrine - that one of the difficulties in Italy is the fact that he invented different mathematics. You see, the electoral moments are made for the parties to count and instead of counting them with one mathematics we count them with different mathematics, depending on the electoral moment: so we have the mathematics of the municipalities, the mathematics of the regionals and the mathematics of the nationals. In other words, we have a system for which the voter cannot identify with the same system the method of representation. The proposal is that one can meditate on the constitutionalization of the electoral system, or on a limit to the electoral system. In the years 1946, 1947 and 1948, when the German Constitution was built, the introduction of 5% - President Finocchiaro will remember - was much discussed in doctrine because it was a way to introduce proportionality without risking a drift and at the same time ensuring the simplicity of reading consent. In Ireland, where they did not have the same Anglo-Saxon tradition as the winner-takes-all, they constitutionalized it in 1956. The French, who are too chauvinistic to admit it, tried only once to return to proportional before 1958, they did so from 1986 to 1987, then in 1987 all unanimously returned to the union. That is, Mr President, in the event that the chocolate we are about to eat, to paraphrase Tom Hanks' statement, is too bitter for some and very sweet for others, for example the Government, and thus leads to a result for which a reform is still being done, to make it work less badly than it is written - the rapporteurs will excuse me - perhaps think of constitutionalizing in some way the electoral system or its homogenization, perhaps - I presumptuously affirm it - would not be bad. [[Applause from the FI Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u118	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 1.0.1. This amendment seeks to intervene on Article 56 of the Constitution. Rule 56 of the Constitution deals with the way in which the Chamber of Deputies is elected in the current version and basically says that the Chamber of Deputies is elected by direct universal suffrage and consists - as we all know - of 630 Members, 618 of whom are elected in the Italian constituency and 12 in the foreign constituency. I would first like to focus on something fundamental that is contained at the beginning of this article, namely universal and direct suffrage. We often take it for granted, but universal and direct suffrage is a recent conquest. For those who did not know, the first attempt was made in 1792 after the French Revolution and immediately after cancelled. The United States, which is brought as an example of democracy, introduced it in 1920, after having made the revolution in 1776, so it took a long time. In general, therefore, there is extreme retrospect, and it is found in literature, in accepting the concept of universal suffrage. The fact that people can express themselves freely and democratically is an annoying thing, and this is seen because there are often attempts to do so. The attempt in the reform that we are examining is this: to take back a century of conquests as far as Italy is concerned and try to go back by denying a part of universal and direct suffrage, precisely for one of the two chambers. It is no small step: imagine if someone with a reform wanted to take away the vote on women, because universal suffrage for women was introduced even later than that for men. I think there would be an insurrection. If, however, we remove this possibility from a House, we are in fact denying half the right of citizens to elect their representatives by direct suffrage. The rest of Rule 56 also states how these people are elected to the Chamber of Deputies. The 618 of the Italian circuit are obtained by dividing the Italian population, updated to the last census, by the number of people to be elected, i.e. exactly 618. Afterwards, eligible persons must be at least 25 years of age. Our proposal is to amend Article 56 in three respects. First of all, we propose to reduce the number of Members from 618 to 300, of course by keeping the number of senators still. Why is that? To meet the government. Given that the government believes that the most important thing is the cost reduction, and the cost reduction should be done by a staff cut of 215 units - because in the end we are the staff: we are here at the service of the citizens - we propose an even greater cut of 330, but this is not an upside-down game. When making reductions in representativeness, the fundamental thing is not to affect what mathematicians call the representative sample of reality. The more the representative sample of reality is small, the more a distortion is done. In fact, we cannot stop a person on the street, ask him what he ate today and consider it a representative sample of Italian food; he is not reliable. Not by chance, when you do surveys, what you call thousands of people, except then of course fail to say how many have responded. A champion of the Senate, therefore, brought to 100, even if elected by direct universal suffrage, would be too reduced compared to the functions that should have a House for the population that Italy has, because of course we must also remember this: the amplitude of the sample must be dynamic. It is no coincidence that the number of Members has been raised to 630, but historically it was not so - if I remember correctly, in the previous reform proposal it was 518 - because it has to adapt to population growth. It is therefore not excluded that, following this scheme, a higher number of representatives (750, to even 800, for example) can be obtained in the future, theoretically. Therefore, if the aim is to reduce staff to save money, then let us make the two things homogeneous: we bring the House to 300 Members and we keep the number of senators to 300, for example, because the differentiation of tasks is not precluded by the fact that we have two numerically equivalent Chambers: no one said that the Chamber of Deputies must necessarily have more representatives of the Senate; the important thing is that there are enough of them to guarantee the representativeness of the electorate and the functions. You understand that, if the sample is reduced too much - let us imagine if we were to become 50, we would certainly not be able to chair all the Commissions - our very possibility of being citizens' representatives in the Commission's work would be undermined. What should we do then? We should hypothetically ask for an increase in the House's budget to ensure that we have a staff able to put us in a position to follow all the work properly, so in reality there would be no cost cut. Not only that. What would be the dangerous thing underneath? That we would demand legislative action to a staff who is not elected - but is not even seen, that is not even designated by a second-level election - and we would have technicians who would replace the legislative power in everything. This is the biggest scorn that could be done to democracy. Therefore, be careful not to try to reduce the representative samples excessively: 300 could be an interesting number. The second part of the amendment amends the age at which you are eligible in the Chamber of Deputies, which is currently set at twenty-five years. The motivation for which we propose to go down to twenty-one years is very simple and coincides with what we believe to be in fact a maturation of citizenship, both on the active and passive side of the electorate. Whether we like it or not, in fact, people at 21 today have access to information that is different from what they could have had in the past. The possibility that at the age of twenty-five today has a person to be formed is much higher than it used to be, because banally there is the web and therefore the possibility of accessing a database of millions of billions of pages that contain any, you might tell me. It is true: there is good and there is bad, but it does not mean that something that was not there is available; first, if you wanted information, you had to look for the library that contained a given volume, a periodic data or a publication and then you had to go to that library and study. Did you want something that was in a newspaper? You had to go to the library and ask for the newspaper of a given year and month; there was a dusty volume of newspapers in which to look for information. Now just one click. Even the much vilified television - which I personally do not and do not look - since it was born, since there was only one channel, has expanded the formative offer (in the general sense of the word). Clearly the quality is low, but there is still the possibility of having a plurality of information, both of bad quality. Therefore it is also correct that the age of eligibility follows the evolution of the times, so twenty-one years seems to us a correct age, also because we have to consider that, after all, we give people the opportunity to drive a car to eighteen years and surely you can do more damage to the driving of a vehicle than being elected in a gathering where you are not alone. This is the underlying reason. Finally, there is a ban on multiple applications. The fact that we are not just looking at the costs, but also at the candidacy, is a novelty. We always say that an elected person must be an expression of the nation, but he is elected in a certain area. We believe a lot in the rooting of the electorate, in the sense that a person must run for office in his/her own constituency, because in this way there is greater contact with his/her electorate. Moreover, we are absolutely opposed to multiple nominations, in the sense that the person must be fair to his/her potential voters to apply only in one place. As we have seen in the last elections, there has been someone who has applied in all possible regions, and therefore in all twenty, and this for us is mocking the electorate. What is, in fact, at some point your reference voter? You go to every Region and you ask for the vote as representative of that reality, but then this is not true and you choose only after the Region. This, of course, is unacceptable and must, therefore, be applied in general in every situation. Therefore, even if this reform does not go into effect, in any case we will propose constitutional bills that provide for the radicalization of the chosen to its territory. There must be a close link between the electer and the elected representative, otherwise - as you can well understand - the principle of representativeness ceases. Finally, there is a corrective part that concerns the way in which mathematical calculation is done, having to be related to the new composition of the Chamber of Deputies. If we expect the House of Deputies to be 300, then the corresponding division to be made must be 300, i.e. the number of people elected. Of course there is always the question of the recovery of the remains, because a division is never accurate and also in this case the mechanism of the recovery of the proportional remains is used. Now I do not want to go too far into the mathematical concept, but it is a way of trying to distribute equally those Members who cannot be physically cut apart. I invite all of you to reflect on the fact that the method that is commonly used, namely the D'Hondt method, is the worst of those of this type, being the least fair. Therefore, even when changing, it would be appropriate to use other methods which are certainly more effective and more respectful of the proportional distribution of the elect. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u119	Mr President, the amendment 1.0.3, which we have tabled in order to reduce the number of Members of the Chamber of Deputies considerably, relates to the same initiative that the same draft which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has laid down for the Senate of the Republic. I believe that there must be proportionality between the two chambers in order to preserve what has been good in the experience of Italian parliamentarism in the general framework of European and Western parliamentarism. Colleagues, the law we are discussing has been presented at the time with expressions that are not always precise. It has been said that we abolish the Senate and this has been affirmed in order to communicate a basic idea from the highest pulpits of the Italian political class. Of course this is not correct, because the Senate is not abolished at all, but it is only radically changed according to a project that, already in the general discussion, has undergone many critical observations and has been the subject of many reservations. In this case we are only talking about one particular aspect, which is the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies, in relation to that of the Senate, because there can be no abstract and unilateral analysis of what the number of members of a Chamber should be taken apart. The Italian Parliament, as well as the parliaments of Western Europe, with a longer democratic tradition, consists of two chambers, not one. When you radically touch one of the two rooms, you touch indirectly, but no less effectively, even the other one that will remain untouched. When you move from bicameralism equal to the correct bicameralism, like what we all want to achieve, you implicitly change the real prerogatives of the Chamber of Deputies. So, we have to ask ourselves whether it makes sense to keep a House of 630 Members, compared to a Senate that - depending on how we decide in the end, thinking about the vast majority of the amendments that have been proposed - will be 100, 110, 120, 150 people (the Government says 100 and that's fine). One account is the report of one to two that was chosen by the Constituents at the end of a long debate, another account is a report from one to six. A report from one to six essentially does not correspond in any other Western parliamentary system, except in the German one. Here perhaps it is worth remembering the numbers, but also the quality of the German system, because this system has often been used as a comparison term to support a design for our country, which to me - I will be wrong - seems poorly founded. The German system includes a Lower House, the Bundestag, consisting of 631 MPs, and a Upper House, the Bundesrat, consisting of only 69 members, who, however, vote with weighted votes on the basis of the population of the different Länder (which express delegations of the governments of the Länder to form the Bundesrat). You understand that you turn it around anyway, it's quite different from the Senate that we're going to build, with this reform. This is not only because of the institutional characteristics of the Chambers as such but also because of the way in which they are elected. In Germany, Parliament, as has been mentioned several times in this House, is elected with a proportional vote and a 5% barrier threshold. It is clear that this compensates, in a democratic balance that has proved to be able to function very well, a Senate of the autonomous, indeed, let's say better, a Federal Senate, because Germany is a Federal Republic, what Italy is not and does not want to be. Italy is a Republic with wide autonomy, but the large autonomous states are not a federal state, they are quite different. No one here is making sure that the Regions have a dominant tax power to finance their own expenses. We're not a federal system, so it doesn't make sense that we pretend to copy another system because we don't have enough convincing force. We need to make a quote to support a speech that otherwise makes a bit of water on its own. In this context, I would like to recall some data, because the number of parliamentarians, both in the Upper House and in the Lower House, is functional in order to work well in the legislative process, but also to work well representing the country adequately in its different specificities, starting - and this is very important - from those related also to the language or minorities, but on this others will intervene. This, in fact, must be a welcoming country, which will increasingly have a problem of representing those who are different from the majority of Italian citizens, but are Italian citizens themselves in full capacity. You know that - it is enough to make some divisions - Italy has the lowest representation, the lowest number of citizens per congressman among the great Western countries, that is 95,000: in Germany 127,000 inhabitants for each Member, in France 114,000, in Spain 133,000, in the United States 726,000 (and no one dreams of saying that the United States is not a democratic country, I believe that the United States, as regards democracy, the ability to manage the conflicts, often terrible, that have crossed that country - a civil war - have much to teach the rest of the world). The only country a little close to us is the United Kingdom, but that is a state that has a very particular history and that, alongside a large number of Members, has an even greater number of members of the House of Lords (over 1,000), so it is a whole other story, another tradition. Britain is an island not only from a geographical point of view, but also from that of its institutional architecture (there is also the monarchy). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. MUCCHETTI (PD). Coming to the conclusion, I believe that in Italy it would be appropriate to reduce the number of MPs in Montecitorio in such a way as to maintain a certain proportion, which is not written in the tables of the law: so far we had the report of a senator every two Members, which is the vast majority also abroad, but we could go to a report of one to three, or one to four, but certainly the ratio one to six seems to me a way to allow the House of Deputies a prevalence over the Senate which is all the more disproportionate the more we want to maintain in the Senate a role of sharing in the choices relating to the level of democracy of this country, the institutions of guarantee of constitutional importance and everything else. From this point of view, beyond what will be the composition of the Senate and its criteria of election, I would like to recall a survey published by the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), from which it appears that the few Italians who are concerned about what we are discussing now (we believe we are the navel of the world, but we are talking about a topic that does not excite anyone in Italy except because, unfortunately, for the crisis of parties and the political class, there is a tendency to devalue democracy as such) are of the opinion that if there is to be a Senate, this must be a direct election. This is if we want to listen to those few citizens who are interested in the subject, the others do not side either side. But in the meantime - and I shall end really - the Senate and the House must have a certain numerical proportion, so I think it is reasonable to halve the number of parliamentarians as we reduce the number of senators to a third. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator D'Alì.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u120	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.0.2 which contains the following new wording of Article 56: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage, ensuring gender equality. The number of Members is three hundred and fifteen plus eight Members elected in the foreign constituency. All voters who were twenty-one years old on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. The distribution of seats between the districts is made by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by three hundred and fifteen and distributing the seats in proportion to the population in each constituency, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains. With this amendment I want to talk about numbers and savings because, beyond what this House will decide on the method of election of the new Senate, I think it is absurd not to think of a cut of Members in the House, even in view of the spending review: 630 Members are really too many and, in addition to representing a huge expenditure for the State, I believe that they are in supernumbered also with a view to facilitating parliamentary work. To give an example, I would like to remind everyone, as I did in my general speech, that in the United States, for the constituency I represent, there are 100 senators, while there are 435 Members, compared with some 350 million inhabitants. Music doesn't change in Europe. For example, Germany, which the Government often refers to as a model to follow, has the same number of Italian MPs, that is, 630, but the German population exceeds the Italian population of about 24 million inhabitants. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Spousetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u121	I also thank you for the briefness of your illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u122	Mr President, before I give my reasons for signing Amendment 1.0.11, I would like to mention a number of points of discussion in particular with Senator Finocchiaro, who, as usual, is particularly stimulating and is a very important opportunity to speak. This morning, Senator Finocchiaro mentioned Meuccio Ruini, to support her arguments. I'm not a jurist, but as a historian, I've been a little busy with the Constituent debate. Professor Stefano Merlini is an exponent of a school of extraordinary importance, that of Professor Barile of the University of Florence, so I would also urge the attention of Minister Boschi because it is the school of constitutional law of his city. Well, Professor Merlini mentioned, with regard to the discussion held in the constituent assembly in relation to the composition of the Senate, some speeches by Mr Laconi and a group of members of the Liberal Party, who opened a debate, a controversial front, in particular with representatives of Christian Democracy, precisely in relation to this issue. Therefore, it is not that our position is not shaved in culturally and historically significant backgrounds. She was still quoting, Mrs Finocchiaro, the text of the Violante draft proposal, and she was quoting correctly. But he did not add a figure, in my opinion not in detail, namely that President Violante's positions were accompanied by a proposal for a proportional electoral law with a 5% barrier. Moreover, the Bundesrat model has a pendant in an electoral system very far from the one currently proposed with the approval of the House. A second point and then I will come to the subject of the amendment. From my point of view, I reverse exactly the arguments, which I consider absolutely legitimate as well as very penetrating, of my colleague Finocchiaro. If we proceed to an elective Senate - she says - we would create a system that does not represent territorial autonomy and that, in reality, represents the parties. I believe that this reflection must be reversed precisely, precisely because we do not give birth to a Bundesrat, as Mr Fattorini kindly says. We do not propose the German model and Mr Finocchiaro is absolutely right when he says that ours is a unique model in the continental system, precisely because we do not bring the governments to the Senate, but we assign to the parties, to the secretariats of the parties, a primacy in the choice of senators; and we know how these things go with the presidents of the regional groups. This choice is not an expression of a second-degree election, but even the result of a third-level appointment: from the list I arrive at the Regional Council and hence I arrive at the Senate. I shall have the opportunity to go into these arguments in the course of the debate. I shall now confine myself to a few clarifications on the amendment. I will not take up the arguments and the data that Mr Cucchetti has correctly put forward, largely supporting part of my speech. Two background notes. In all the programmes I know of the PD there is talk of the reduction of parliamentarians. Allow me, Madam Minister, a small parenthesis: the Italian Constitution has been novelized, since 1948 to the present day, on 43 occasions. In 2001 and 2006, significant parts of the Italian Constitution were changed, so it seems to me that the reference that nothing has been made in recent decades is inappropriate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] Unfortunately a lot has been done and very badly. Friends and colleagues from the centre-right have been rejected from the referendum their choice of reform of the Constitution because the position, spread by the centre-left, of an incontrovertible constitutional disobedience has passed and certainly not because they have reduced the number of parliamentarians. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians is a shared heritage in the programmes of the centre-left and centre-right. But let us come to the more specific reasons for the amending proposal that I am presenting here. First of all, I repeat that this text has been the result of reasons which I do not believe to be acceptable. Some people said at the beginning - not me - that one of the challenges to be faced was that of reducing costs and saving resources. I did not say that, because I am absolutely in agreement with a battle with a view to a 'rigorisation' of costs, but the constitutional architecture of a state is an extremely serious problem. But those who have used this argument should be consistent to the end. Beyond the fact that the press supports an interpretation of this completely misleading reduction, the cut of the parliamentarians to the Senate means savings of about 50 million euros, and not 500 million euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Buemi and Bell Senators.]] Nor does it lead to a saving of two billion, as I have heard in the speech of one of my fellow Members, who has had a tremendous success in collecting consensus, but who has an improper knowledge of this data. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]] The second reason is that there is a feature problem. My colleague, Mrs Mussini, gave a speech which I very much appreciated. A non-ideological intervention, but which examined and reviewed the degree of functionality of the Chamber with the number of presences. And this has given me an impression that, on non-scientific and non-statistical data I, as a former Member (because I was a Member from 1996 to 1999 and from 2008 to 2013), I had reported. The attendance and the amount of votes given to the House very rarely exceed the threshold that we are proposing today, i.e. 470 Members of Parliament. This figure is not the result of improvisation. There are two reasons for this numerical figure. The first is the reference to the colleges provided by Mattarellum. The second is a fairly close approximation to the European figure. In fact, the most accurate European figure would refer to about 500 Members. We proposed the number of 470 because there is a very precise reference to the Mattarellum, which would also allow a more balanced balance in the relationship between the House and the Senate. And here are all the arguments that Mr Cucchetti has put forward. Two more considerations. I never inspire my political battles to confirm polls. I contested the democracy of the remote control when it was proposed in the years of President Berlusconi and therefore, consistently, I am not enthusiastic about the democracy of the remote control if it is used by others. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]] I have read Renan and I know that democracy is a daily verification. However, there is now a completely inescapable match. I ask my fellow Members how we will do this - and I am asking the question of my political side in particular - that we have always supported the need for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament in the House and the Senate to hold public opinion in our colleges. I would be in serious difficulty if tomorrow the voters of my constituency, those who voted for me in the primary, asked me to account and explain the reason why I do not support a reduction of Members even in the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And here is an inescapable match, which others already called. The Ipsos survey, conducted for the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) for the value it has (and I repeat that I do not inspire my choices to the polling feedback), provides an element of not irrelevant reflection: 73 percent of Italians opt for an elective Senate. For what reason? Because the value of representation as a metre of democracy is now deeply internalized in public opinion, in the common feeling of our country. And so there is no doubt that this law does not prefigure an authoritarian state, but it certainly contains factors of involution of the democratic principle.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u123	Come to the conclusion, Senator Corsini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u124	Mr Corsini (PD). The last argument. I see amendments which I too have signed in relation to the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. There are two cases. If you want to change the audience that elects the President of the Republic in order to avoid the risk of a kind of paradox, so with an ultra-majoritarian law the party secretary who wins becomes President of the Council and can elect the President of the Republic (today we, tomorrow others), there are two ways: either increase the audience with the acceptance of the amendment that leads to becoming great voters also the European parliamentarians, or significantly reduce the number of parliamentarians. So the arguments that I and my colleagues who have signed this text are not simply limited to the microphysics of this specific aspect, but have a cohesive value and aim at improving the democratic quality of the legislative text that we are ready to discuss. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u125	Mr President, colleagues have already dealt with the issue of numbers on the side of democratic representation and balance in the Chamber and Senate during the election of constitutional bodies (Presidency of the Republic, Constitutional Court and Supreme Council of the judiciary). I would like to return to what I believe was the starting point to activate this procedure for reforming our Constitution with regard to the Senate. The main argument was: procedures are cumbersome, the cost of legislative production is particularly high, there are essentially too many Members of Parliament and, in particular, the perfect bicameral system doubles costs and sometimes also puts product quality at risk. Well, a number of issues will be discussed at the next stage of this debate on the amendments, and now I want to focus only on the economic aspect. Amendment 1.0.6 of which I am the first signatory proposes the reduction of the representation of the Chamber of Deputies to 400 Members in conjunction with a Senate of 200 members. But let us analyse the matter from the point of view of representing the Chamber of Deputies at 400 taking the number of senators as well as proposed by the Government's draft law with the amendments arrived at the Commission. Four hundred Members, or 230 less Members, produce an annual savings in terms of MEPs' office allowances of about EUR 150-180 million. That seems to me to be a significant achievement. This against a savings result, abolishing the office allowance of senators, of about 50-60 million euros. Now, I cannot understand this extremely rigid position that wants to deprive the representation of senators - and in this sense is justified the non-eligibility and a whole series of other issues - to save 60 million euros when there is a position of foreclosure compared to a saving of 150-180 million euros. Frankly, this attitude is incomprehensible. There are no reasons for balancing because colleagues have already explained the issue of balancing. There are no reasons for the proportion to other representations in democratic countries at least as much as ours. So, on what grounds do we stand by a position of non-modifying the number of Members? This is a question, which will of course have an answer, in terms of 'yes' or 'no' on my amendment, but I am convinced that with regard to the issue of the numbers and eligibility of the Senate, the reasons put forward are not those which, basically, hold this rigidity of position. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u126	Mr President, I am not going to present the amendment to my first signature, because there is a deepening in progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u127	Mr President, I will try to make a very small contribution to this House, knowing that my words will be heard both by you and by Mr Boschi, who is present in this House. Surely he will not treasure it, but at least he will listen to it, because as can be said with a joke, rightly, we belong to two slightly different ways of thinking: she esteems very Saint Augustine in the first part of her life, I instead appreciate him for what he did in the second part. Having said that, I try to make a reflection as simple as possible and even more understandable from the general point of view. I would therefore like to ask myself a question, after listening to my fellow Members' speeches in this House and asking whether it is possible that among the more than 6,000 amendments tabled by all the senators present in this House there is not even one that could give something more to this reform. Is it possible that all these senators and parliamentary groups representing the Italian people, who have listened to the people on the ground and who have transformed the thinking of the citizens into amendments, have not got one right, since the amendments are all wrong? So the reflection I do is painful: perhaps we can not actually give what we should give? But then I listened to a few more reflections. I have heard that certain Members of Parliament want to obstruct, that they are heretics, rebellious people. They are rebels because they want to help improve this reform, they are rebels because they want to make some improvements. Always remembering St Augustine, I also remember that in the past there were heretics, especially as regards us, who are Christians. I remember what they thought and tried to carry on Catholics, claiming that the sins we have on us could be washed or taken away through almsgiving. Someone rebelled, saying that it is not the money that solves the problem, but that they serve many other things and perhaps also remembered that someone, who became a man from God, put himself on the cross to purify us. But what does this have to do with the speech we're having in here? It has a lot to do with it, because each of us, within this Assembly, is a Christian who would like to make a contribution to this reform, in the interests of the country. Each of us tries to make a contribution, in the interest of the country and the nation it represents. Each of us thinks that the children of others are our children. Each of us thinks that making a contribution could help everyone. Yet it is not; it is not. I turn to my representatives. I am not, as someone has defined us, a heretic; I am not a person who, in a spirit of contradiction, takes the floor and wants to be, - excuse this reflection - in contrast. Mr President, I am one who wants to do his job with the small skills I have, with what I know and with what I can give, but I want to give it with my heart and with my head, free and honest. Honestly because I have the courage to say that many times what is indicated to us as the road is not the right one, the highway, but the wrong road. Then we have an obligation to report it and try to make it understood and, in case we fail to succeed, patience: we can only say that we have not been able to explain it, or they have not been able to understand it. I come back for a moment and I would like to make another quote, Minister, to my leader, Senator Paolo Romani, who also has an important name, but I do not know if he belongs to the first part of the Paul of the 30s or Paul of the 60s. I hope that it can be, as our point of reference, the 60-year-old Paul. But I am convinced - firmly convinced - of what I am saying, because, through our Group, we look not only at what is indicated to us, but also at the wisdom of white hair. Mr President-in-Office: your President-in-Office of the Council, who is also mine, sometimes, referring to those who have a few white hairs, does not do so with great propriety and expresses himself in ironic language. On the other hand, we think that those who have a few white hairs have wisdom and you should report that to your President-in-Office, who sometimes, on the other hand, thinks the opposite of what we think. Having said that, Minister Boschi, we are not here to create problems for you; we are not here to create problems for President Renzi; we are not here to create problems for Italian citizens. We ask ourselves a question, however, as we did until recently. The question we ask ourselves is: appointed or elected? What do you mean appointed or elected? We contested and went to the squares, both to the right and to the left (the 5 Star Movement, the Groups of the center, the PD and Forza Italia) and we said: enough appointed; now they will have to be the representatives of the people to guide us. The people must elect their representatives within the institutions. Yet today someone tells us that what we were told until a few days ago is completely wrong. Perhaps the colleague is right - I do not remember if he was the last or the penultimate one who intervened -, wise man of the PD: great respect for political opponents when they face topics in the global and overall interest of the country and respect for opponents always and I do not hate that someone releases. Open parenthesis, I'm gonna shut you down about hate. I listened with great interest when it came to voting for the Colle. But - I say - is it ever possible that these characters, who are constitutional experts (I hope not to make institutional mistakes with constitutionals), can not understand that the difference between 630 and 100 is very high? We are talking about the President of the Republic, that is to say the representative who should be on the Hill, or the Colle. I ask Senator Tarquinio to suggest me, please, because I wouldn't want to make mistakes. In fact, many times I only intersect the Sicilian with Italian and some words escape me, thus giving rise to someone, pseudo-great, but very small, to say things that do not correspond to reality. Having said that, I would like to call you back to an issue for a moment. When we ask ourselves the question of voting for the Colle, is it possible for 100 senators and 630 Members? But didn't you government representatives say you had to reduce these MPs by 50% to the Senate and 50% to the House? In mathematics I am not strong, great representative of the government, and I am sorry; I graduated in medicine and not in mathematics. But by the eye and by dealing with the hand, as women once did in Sicily, I find that 630 divided by 2 is 315 and 315 divided by 2 is about 150 [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] , 150 and 315 is 465, while 630 and 100 is 730. So there is no reduction, but there is an increase. And then perhaps it is true what the people say, that is that someone who at this moment plays the role of President of the Council - and this time I hope not to be wrong - is a Harlequin, with the "R", Mr President, because many times we Sicilians forget the "R".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u128	I invite you to conclude, Senator Scilypoti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u129	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). And then we should make a thought, dear President: here, in this House - I say this to the learned and wise people in here - you have made everything wrong. The more than 6,000 amendments you have tabled are of no value. You have tabled amendments only to create confusion. You do not want to defend Italy, you do not want to build a Senate worthy of the word, representing the Italian people. You do not want this future Senate to be represented by the people's elect. You don't want this. You're kidding. Why are you kidding? Because when the government representative says he won't take a step and accept any amendments and shows us what we're going to have to do, that means we're in the end, that means we don't have the strength in our hearts to rebel. Then to conclude, Minister Boschi, I could also be willing to vote for his reform; it is a reform that could be useful for the country. But at least the willingness to discuss and improve it must give it, otherwise its behavior is an incorrect political behavior, which does not want to open and create democracy in the country, but wants to create the conditions to make the confrontation and consequently have a justification to go to the early elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani and Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u130	Mr President, I am not a Renzian, but I must say that, with regard to what Senator Scilipoti said about the lack of respect for those who have white hair, some of us too probably (not me, but others) create a bit of confusion by dyeing their hair, because they induce poor Renzi to no longer understand who to respect. But that was just a joke to mitigate a little the tones that Senator Scilipoti had used. You see, there are about 50-60 amendments that intervene by amending Article 56 of the Constitution in the matter of the composition of the House of Deputies. And so 50-60 amendments ranging from 420 to 422 to 425 Members, including my own, which sets a limit and an amendment and provides for a House with only 420 Members. Well, I believe that we are all running out of time in making these unreasoning amendments. When we talk about the Italian Constitution, I think that it has been drafted by lawyers and not only by men with adequate scientific and legal instruments compared to those we and I can have today in particular. Well, when we talked about the Constitution I moved and started to reflect with the timidity with which a modest man compared to those great men can approach to modify such an instrument, that is, the Italian Constitution. I don't know if this sense of shy modesty is just mine or if it's common to all of us. I believe that it should be common to all of us, but the reasoning that I feel, the haste that you want to give, the acceleration that is imprinted make me think that probably that shyness that I have in trying to amend this Constitution of ours others do not have it. When the Constitution was drawn up and Parliament was imagined, at that time there were not so many debates on numbers. Immediately there was a convergence on the number of 630 MPs and 315 senators. This difference in numbers was due to the fact that the Senate of then, the first Senate of our Republic saw, in addition to the presence of the elected, the presence of the senators of law, who were not in number of five, of seven, of 12 as today are the senators for life appointed by the President of the Republic, but were all the constituents, those who had participated in the drafting of the Constitution, and all the Senators of the Kingdom. That's why in front of the 315 senators, to which was added this large number of senators of law, it was thought to create a Chamber with 630 deputies and a Senate with 315 senators. But were the Regions there at that time? Today to think of a reduction in the number of Members in a single political chamber, with a Senate guarantee as we are imagining, it is not, as someone can imagine, an attack on representation. It is not because, unlike the time when the Constitutional Charter was drawn up and the first Italian Parliament was composed, there is a totally different situation today, because with the competing subjects entrusted to the Regions there has already been a reduction in the workload of Parliament's legislative activity. Not only that, but what most points out is that the people have a different scale of representation with the Regions that are those places where, in addition to the legislative activity for matters of their own competence, there is a representation relationship with the electorate of the Region itself. So, if we are to adapt the Charter on the basis of changing times, how can we overlook the fact that, compared to that time when the Constitution was drawn up, there have not been any changes that could lead us to take some consideration? They are therefore not random numbers, those of 430 or 450 Members. With my amendment, aimed at reducing the number of Members to 420, I have made this kind of reasoning: I have said that if the times have changed, if today we have a representation of the territories with the constitution of the Regions, it seems useless that there is such a large representation in Parliament in the number of Members. I also think that spending review and savings can be pursued on all sides. When building a building, you can save money on coatings, on the type of doors, but I never think it is possible to save money on the foundations, on the concrete that must support the house. With this rather singular comparison I want to say that, if we talk about the Constitution, we must abandon for a moment the concept of spending review, because we cannot risk giving the future of our country a Constitutional Charter in some way ineffective and incapable of guaranteeing the principles of democracy, representation and freedom in our country to save some money from public spending. You can't operate the savings here. In any case, if President Renzi and the Government intend to go in this direction of savings, it seems to me that in this respect too the result will be completely insufficient to achieve and achieve the goal. But if they really wanted to proceed in this way, they would have to do it all the way: it is in the House that there is a waste, an excessive number of Members, when there is already a large and widespread representation on the territory, so with a reduction of Members there would be no attack on representation. Reasoning in this way, perhaps we can find a solution that sees a streamlined and fast Chamber, that can fulfil its legislative function in an appropriate manner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am, I'm going to conclude. I have not yet addressed the issue of representation and the elected Senate because, as I said in my last speech on this issue, I believe that representation - whether elected or appointed - passes through the functions that the Senate wants to give. If you let the Senate into the trust circuit anyway, we must make a choice: we cannot make choices a priori. That's why I say we think carefully, first of all about the functions that the Senate must have and then, eventually, we will decide on the composition of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u131	Mr President, we know that 100 senators are more than enough to guarantee what the government wants to do with the Senate, which must serve to guarantee a majority, to prevent changes to the Constitution that are not welcome up there and secondly, but perhaps not so much, to determine the election of the President of the Republic and the guarantee bodies. For the rest, however, since this does not justify the existence of a Chamber, what do we make him do? It's like we're saying here that we need to put the wheel in the hamster cage to keep it from getting fat. So, if we want to meet this reform and present at least some sensible proposals, one fundamental issue could be the coordination of public finance that our new Senate should absolutely carry out, perhaps even in a hopefully exclusive way. Why this? Because we know that this matter is fundamental, especially for a House that would like to be regional. We have a crazy reform, which with one eye takes away powers from the Regions and, with the other, establishes a Senate of councilors and mayors. They even wanted to call him the Senate of Autonomies! It is a non-constitutional composition. The absence of direct election is also toxic to the country's economy, which must emerge from the lottification, and not from freedom. Entrepreneurs go to Carinthia because they have to pay the bribes here. But this reform lacks coherence within it. What regional Senate is, if it does not have competence over what most involves the Regions, i.e. the amount of transfers and their distribution, the mechanisms of equalization and of course also about the objectives of control of expenditure, their definition and control of achievement? Giving the Senate primary competence on how to repartum the financial objectives, whose respect is at the head of the State, on the basis of the Community agreements, but whose achievement also contributes to the autonomy, seems vital in order to attribute functionality and rationality to a system where the theme of the finding and allocation of financial resources is always central in the debate, on all public policies. In every maneuver of public finance - and no exception is the decree-law n. 66 of 2014, that of the 80 euros - the central point is always how, how much and on the basis of what developments past the territorial autonomy are called to contribute to the respect of the total financial objectives. A copious constitutional jurisprudence sanctioned illegitimate state rules that gradually imposed specific constraints on regional and local finance. Contrary to this, it is always possible to reason on the emergency, to impose linear cuts and to clash over whether or not the overall public finance rules have been respected. The same applies to the issue of standard costs and the implementation of Law No 42 of 2009 on fiscal federalism, entrusted to a special bicameral Parliamentary Commission, which is an example of this issue. Moreover, more generally, if these aspects of public finance were to be dealt with only by the Chamber (elected on the basis of Italicum with a hyper-majoritarian law), as provided for in the text of the Government's bill, it is clear that the autonomy would continue to be marginalized and passively subjected to financial maneuvers, thus creating additional alibis to avoid meeting the objectives. It's already been seen. To entrust to the exclusive competence of the Senate the theme of the law of coordination of public finances, the implementation of Article 119 and a power of strong appeal on the aspects of the budgetary law pertaining to the autonomy is, therefore, the minimum boundary and the absolutely more rational solution to guarantee the balance between the State and the autonomy. Turning to the subject of control, on the other hand, always in the perspective of a Senate that deals, at the very least, with controls and cognitive activity, it is clear that, if the Chamber alone were to approve the budget definitively, the Senate must be able at least to control the implementation of public and budgetary policies, inverting the universal principle of the distinction between the seat of the decision and that of control. Therefore, as proposed in the first version of the Government's text, the Senate, with a view to balancing, should have exclusive competence over the control of the implementation of public policies. This is a crucial issue which has been unfairly marginalised in our debates. Likewise, relations with the new parliamentary budget office, created by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, should be reserved for the Senate. It is also a proposal made by the Commission of Wise Men appointed at the beginning of the term by President Napolitano. There is also a second part of this amendment, which is less technical and equally obvious. One of the main difficulties of European integration is the lack of flexibility in applying directives in different countries. Italy is not Portugal, nor Poland, nor Greece and Germany. A trade agreement between Europe and North Africa on agricultural products and fisheries is voted by the decisive votes of Northern Europe. But what does it matter to Northern Europe if the Tunisian oranges condemn the Italian oranges and our farmers end up in misery? What does it matter to Northern Europe if Tunisia seizes our fishing vessels and Tunisian fish has facilitated lanes to our markets? We could also ask ourselves another question: Italy has a variety of remarkable economic vocations at regional level, mainly tourist, industrial, agricultural: we could ask ourselves what interests all this to the citizens of Veneto. Oranges do not produce them, but we have an important fishing fleet that is increasingly in crisis. And if Europe dumps on Italy the confrontation of despair that arrives on our shores, we do not let it die, as Europe has let Greece die. Europe is downloading on Italy, but Italy cannot and does not want to download on Sicily, or Emilia-Romagna (when the earthquake occurred). As with all regions, cooperation and sharing of difficulties is required, so it is claimed co-responsibility and fairness in spending, because the pillar of the pillars of democracy, what we have placed before everything in the Constitution, Article 1, provides as an explicit duty for political, economic and social solidarity. Then, the impact of European policies on regional economies and communities needs to be assessed. The findings must then lead to action at national and European level. And by whom can it be evaluated and who can contribute to this address if not senators directly elected by the citizens of those Regions representing their interests within the framework of national unity? Let us think of a Chamber with a regional profile in which these interests are represented, with the task of uniting them in accordance with the principles of political, economic and social solidarity laid down in the Constitution. But that same article contains another unwavering principle: sovereignty belongs to the people. You know this principle well; you have heard it so many times in these days, and we will repeat it to you again, to make you hate it or to make you truly love it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini]] Instead, the government insists on putting power in the hands of the caste: even a child understands that if a senator is not elected by the people he cannot have legislative power, the power to modify the Constitution, to elect the Presidents of the Republic. If a senator does not represent the Nation but institutions occupied by party lotteries, he cannot even represent the instances of the regional community to which he belongs, since he is implicitly detached from the duty to pursue first and foremost the collective good of the whole Nation. For the Senate was quoted in vain the German model, forgetting that Germany...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u132	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u133	ENDRIZZI (M5S). One minute and I'll finish, ma'am. Germany is a federal state. In Germany the other House is elected with the proportional system. Italy in recent years with perfect bicameralism has produced twice as many laws as Germany, and - be careful - 70 percent of German laws are made in the form of perfect bicameralism. You do not want to apply the Bundesrat model, but, in the style of the first Republic, you are about to set up a "burocrat". This amending proposal falls, sabotaged by the obstinacy of the Government; it remains a testimony to our purposefulness and the unwillingness of the Government to put before the good of the country. We know that it serves the Government to arm its majority; therefore, the Constitution is prostituted to the interest of a party. We will be willing to discuss this proposal here, which is, as would be best, in the Commission, if we really go back to doing things seriously. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u134	Mr President, I will try to be brief, but I want to say a few things because in my opinion there are contradictions that emerge and that are quite flashy with respect to the work, emeritus, that has been done by the Commission. I read in fact from the bill what the new Senate should deal with: The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions. It shall contribute, in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution, to the legislative function and shall act as a liaison between the European Union, the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic. It participates in decisions on the training and implementation of EU legislation. It evaluates the activities of public administrations, checks the implementation of state laws, controls and assesses public policies. He helps to express opinions on the appointments of the Government's competence in the cases provided for by law. It seems to me that these tasks are either too few or too many; everything depends on the type of legitimacy that is given to this new body. I'll explain. In my opinion, from this point of view, we create a great contradiction for a very simple reason: we create a body that intervenes on constitutional laws and on the election of the President, but we give him a nature very linked to the relationship between State and Regions, just when we go to decide the tasks, and therefore that concurrent legislation, which should exist, is not there. So it is a paradox, which involves above all the fact that we start with an already old, extremely old reform. Public opinion didn't ask us to do that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We could certainly dare more and reason with a much wider horizon, also because we are doing a reform that should not close in ten years, as happened with that of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, but should go further. But we didn't want to dare, the government didn't want to dare and we find ourselves with this proposal that I think is absolutely asphyxiating. Referring then also to the amendments that I have tabled, from this point of view the element that strikes and that makes it clear that the debate has been extremely superficial is the firm and rigid attitude of the Government not to intervene on that almost aesthetic element that divides the numbers of the Senate from those of the Chamber, because if it had intervened and if we had arrived at a different proportion (400-200, 500-100) the conditions could have been created, obviously with a different legitimacy, in order to try to achieve even more ambitious objectives. We could reason on different competences between two rooms; we could reason on the possibility - even - of creating a monocameralism that was organized on two branches of Parliament, perhaps by voting for a single trust; instead, this was not done, because we stopped. In the end, in fact, we are doing a reform whose intention is not to abolish this branch of Parliament, but in any case we must find a role, a logic, which is absolutely unconvincing. For these reasons, in some respects, I think we should think about it for a moment and imagine that, compared to the past, we are absolutely unarmed, and I want to explain why. I do not know whether you - and I am addressing this House - have gone to read the acts of the constituent Assembly a minimum these days, if at least you have understood how ambitious that draft which we are now going to amend was. I think that from this point of view also people who can be convinced, for different reasons, that this step must be taken have a sensitivity not indifferent. When President Finocchiaro himself reminds us today that the House is sovereign, I think this is an important fact because we cannot reason with the idea that everything is already done, that it is already written. I also address the comrades of Forza Italia: when President Berlusconi says and repeats before everyone that he would never have thought that the Senate would make harakiri, he tells a truth that aims above all to a given, that is to call us back to a minimum of responsibility. We must reason on one fact: we cannot achieve a change in the Constitution that does not see us as protagonists. This at an essential point, a point of which the subject is yes the parties, but also the individual senators. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]] I would once again like to make a reference to the constituent assembly. It was absolutely not a bad word then to have a different position than that of the party, and I am talking not about a democratic party of European social democracy, but about Togliatti and the PCI. On important topics, such as Article 7 and the relationship between the State and the Church, there were parliamentarians who voted in dissent. It was then adopted for the constituent Assembly the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber that preferred the secret vote, and it preferred it for a very simple reason: because it wanted to give everyone, to each representative of this party, the maximum freedom of conscience, the possibility to intervene and to take different positions than an indication. We should claim this right now. I am afraid that the pacts made out of here are actually an alibi for many of us not to expose ourselves, not to make decisions, to give us an image of this Parliament that has already died, it is already made of dead souls. We cannot imagine that, while the constituent Assembly so many years ago made a charter and wrote it driven by courage, here we even risk writing it in the wake of fear: the fear of the party, of the elections or other. That would be absurd, madness and regression. We should dare, that is the point; we should dare in the proposal that we make, also putting the Government in front of its responsibilities, because it is not written anywhere that overcome the perfect bicameralism, introduce different functions between the two chambers and a single trust cannot get along with an elected Assembly. These are things that we invent and have no reason to be, as many have said. If we do not do this, if we do not try to write this reform with courage, then we are already dead. Then it is no wonder that today I read, being upset and stunned, that a senator in a radio broadcast also quite diffused answered the question about what we will do with the Senate: "We will make a house closed." I think it's crazy, crazy for us. I mean it: if this is, then we might as well abolish it, because we are a ruling class that is not up to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u135	Mr President, I would like to put forward an amendment which I believe is fundamental, because the deletion of Article 1 does not in practice eliminate the perfect equalism. We are trying to solve problems of operation by transforming bicameralism into something that could be an imperfect bicameralism, stump. In fact, it could almost be a single camera that will come out of it, given the competences that in this article, which we would like to repeal, are defined: for the Chamber in a more or less clear way, and for the Senate of the Autonomouss, as it is called, instead in an absolutely vague way. The first question is: is the problem equalism, or is it the way we politicians, representatives of the citizens, have used this instrument and how the successive governments over the years have transformed competences, which were well balanced and well divided in our Constitutional Charter, in a way that is functional to a system that is not, however, completely democratic? It is certainly not a hallucination mine, when I count the number of requests for trusts that we have seen in this single legislature, indeed only in this solar year (I think fourteen in the House and seven in the Senate), and how many decrees-laws we have seen, decrees-laws that are an emergency measure that the Government instead uses habitually. These things may seem a little redundant, at this point in the debate, but it is clear that citizens do not know these aspects in detail. They do not know them because otherwise they would have had another attitude and in fact, at least those with whom I happened to confront me, they expressed very critical opinions about this alleged reduction of caste, of waste, about the efficiency of this parliamentary system that seems so poor, old and not functional. The first and second paragraphs of Article 55 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 1, outline the central function of the House, which alone will represent the nation. Yes, because the Senate, as it is written, also vaguely, will represent the territorial institutions. Here, too, we could identify a vulnus, but let's go in order. The next paragraph states that the Senate would represent the territorial institutions, i.e. the Senate of the Autonomies. But while precise, punctual, identifiable functions are defined for the House, which can be summarized in the legislative power properly given to Parliament, very vague tasks are defined for the Senate. We will certainly go and explain them in the course of the debate, but it is frankly unclear what the expression "values the activities of public administrations" can mean. How do you do that? With what tools? With what powers? Moreover, since the members of this new Senate will basically be representatives of the institutions, we are in a first short circuit. As usual, there will be controls that are also controllers. Honestly, this is really disturbing, even in the light of the judicial events that have invested many regional councils. It cannot be said that they are places where ethics or selection excels. So if people are wrong to select, I can't imagine what they can do with the advisors they elect from among themselves. There have been so many objections to bicameralism, so many criticisms. Personally, I have breathed a different atmosphere than the discussions I have seen in this House with colleagues from other political formations on decree-laws or draft laws. In fact, I breathed an atmosphere that for some reasons seems very close to that of our constituent Fathers, but for others very far away. I'll explain. For the first time I had a constructive discussion with some of the MPs in the PD I did not know about and I also drew very important reflections, a sign, as my colleagues said, that important work is taking place in this House. I am referring to the PD colleagues who have been called dissidents, but who, after all, have only expressed their opinion, which I more than shared, namely Senators Tocci, Chiti, Casson and in particular Micheloni, whose speech on bicameralism I wanted to write because it was really lucid and precise. (21 p.m.) (Following AIROLA). Since we are talking about saving the perfect bicameralism with this amendment, let us quickly see what are some of the classic objections to bicameralism. One of them is that we're the only ones who have it. In the meantime we are among the few to have it, this is. As my colleague Micheoni said, there are Switzerland and Australia. All negative values referring to the uniqueness of an instrument seem inappropriate to me. In fact, systems should be compared - and this is another point that is often improperly pulled out - with adequate units of measurement. Since elementary school times, we all know, we have been taught that there is no equivalence between pears, apples and bananas. If I compare a perfect bicameral system, of a parliamentary Republic like ours, with a bicameral system like the German one (consideration that has been widely exposed, and not within the merit), which is a federal Republic, or I compare the Italian Senate with the Spanish one which, on the other hand, is a constitutional monarchy or the French one which, on the other hand, is a semi-presidency Republic, if I do not take into account the context in which this institutional organ operates, it is clear that I will have a very distorted and very instrumental vision, it is a profoundly improper comparison. We have heard so many times that perfect bicameralism is slow, old and does not carry out the country. Well, Switzerland does not seem to me to be a country sitting and waiting for reforms to start again. There are numerous examples of hare laws in the history of this Republic: laws that we have approved in twenty days. Not in this parliamentary term, but in others, but it has happened. I can think of the Alfano praise or the Fornero law, which in fact were not among the best. This, however, depends on us and not on the system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another criticism is that we are unproductive. Meanwhile, a thought goes to the law on international cooperation (which was actually a decree-law copied by the draft law of the rapporteur Tonini). 18 amendments of the 5 Star Movement, which then entered into that law, were adopted. And I remember telling my colleagues that I would remember this when we found ourselves criticizing the perfect bicameral system by saying that it is slow and that it does not work, because in fact, in twenty-seven years of failures, there was a shared vote here, at least at first reading.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u136	Senator Airola, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u137	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, do I not have ten minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, and his time is running out. AIROLA (M5S). I have many other things to say, I will try to conclude quickly. These are laws that we passed together. Moreover, the government is still behind schedule. I still remember the debate on the so-called anti-corruption package in the Justice Commission. Also in that case we did a good job, which was then stopped by a decree-law of Mr. Renzi. This has stopped everything, because we have not yet seen anything, despite corruption seems to me a very important problem. So is it the government that is late with hundreds of implementing decrees or is it Parliament that does not work? Let us clarify these points, because in my opinion they are fundamental. In conclusion, the method by which this debate has been conducted is not truly acceptable, either in the Commission or in this House. I conclude by denouncing in particular some of the statements that have been made. One is: We will take the reform home, like it or not. This is the President of the Council. I find this unworthy, as well as Mr Boschi, who says that he does not see great room for negotiation. We're at this point. This is not a reform that comes from a democratic debate. This is a reform that is imposed on us from above. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u138	Madam President, I rise to explain the amendments from 1.15 to 1.20. In fact, these amendments are deleted from the first articles of the text and that is because, as I have tried to say several times during these days, first in general discussion and then again this afternoon to justify the support for the request for non-transition to the articles, we obviously consider some fundamental elements of the reform to be wrong. On the overall system of the package that we have proposed over these days, we have the strong reservations that we have tried to express over these days. We have said several times that we share the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism, while also reminding Parliament, as I did this afternoon, that it was precisely on our side of the line that the first request, now a few decades ago, came for the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. At the time, however, there was still the proportional system, the preferences, the large mass parties, the parliamentary regulations which gave great power to the opposition. In short, a framework of very defined democratic rules, and also of very defined weights and counterweights. It is for these reasons that today, while we share the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism, we see many elements of ambiguity and difficulty in the reform of the government and, above all, we do not agree with the proposal for second-level election for the new Senate, which would be reduced not to that truly guaranteeing body that would serve. On the other hand, we think it would have been much more correct to imagine a clear separation of functions between the two chambers, but reducing the number of parliamentarians overall. In the draft law that we presented at the time and then in our suppressive and amending amendments to the text, we imagined 450 parliamentarians for the House, which remains the holder of the trust relationship with the Government, and 150 for the Senate. The latter, from our point of view, should be elected not only directly, since we contest that there is a second-level election rather than a direct one, but also, as a High Chamber representative of the system of guarantees and counterweights that would serve our Republican Parliament, with a proportional electoral system. This is precisely because the Senate should have a function of guarantee and control, remaining completely exempted, according to this scheme, from governability in the strict sense, failing, precisely, the relationship of trust, and therefore there would be no reason not to elect it with proportional law, preferring the representativeness to governability, which would also interest only the House. In short, we think of a bicameralism characterized by the expression of the trust relationship with the Government entrusted to the Chamber of Deputies alone, to which the most general national legislative function would be attributed, by the strengthening of the other branch of Parliament through the assignment of exclusive legislative functions in a certain number of matters and more general functions of guarantee and supervision on the action of the Government, as well as by a check of preventive constitutional legitimacy of the legislative measures approved by the Chamber. In this context, there would also be a collective exercise of the two chambers on the legislative function with regard to the constitutional revision, the rules governing the rights of freedom and the ratification of the international treaties. We believe that the type of arrangement that we have tried to propose, unfortunately in vain, in the course of these days also through our amendments, would favour greater specialisation of each of the two branches of Parliament and would avoid, even in this case, the laborious shuttles. Above all, this arrangement, in the reflection that we propose, which is a fundamental reflection that tries to cross the various aspects and various nodes that we think have been discovered of the constitutional reform, would allow us to reverse a course that has been marked over all these years and which we think has produced unsatisfactory results. The course that has been taken and on which, unfortunately, the need to change towards has not been felt, is what has seen over the years a progressive weakening of the basic functions of Parliament and an excessive concentration and self-referentiality of the powers in the Executive, moreover not even compensated by the mythology of so-called governability without people. In short, it really would have served, in this case, a fundamental change of this trend, which over the last twenty years has concerned in a clearly prevailing way the effectiveness and speed of the action of government, much more than representation without being able to bring in our country a real element of reversal of trend precisely compared to the crisis of representation. We would have liked to have discussed this, namely the fact that we are facing a profound crisis of representation and that this crisis can no longer be understood simply as a product of the legal form, but it is today about the crisis of representativeness. Therefore we cannot fail to see the fact that the phenomena that have been determined and the political and institutional choices that have been made over all these years, including the electoral laws with which we have been confronted and which have also privileged governance over representation, have then ended up determining the situation today, which in Italy presents an unprecedented picture of the past and sees the greatest point of crisis and deficit in the political relationship between citizens and institutions. This is a very serious subject and I will say it for the hundredth time, until I have a voice. The question that has not been asked is this and the reform we are considering, in our view, is not enough to resolve this point even a little, that is to say to introduce a reversal of the trend compared to this element of discrasia, separation and distance between democratic institutions and citizenship. I do not believe that the combination between a Chamber of Deputies which will be elected with Italicum, a Senate elected by regional councillors, with a second level mechanism, and the activation of the instruments of popular participation that will be more difficult than before, because more signatures will have to be collected, will help to reduce the distance between citizens and institutions. Unfortunately, in the face of this objection I still hear slogans and I do not feel a strong political position, which if it were so maybe would convince me: I am sorry to say, I do not really feel it. So our amendments, both the deletions of the entire articles and the deletions of certain points, seek to remedy the issues we are highlighting and an overall idea of reform. We believe that the balance between powers should have been balanced much more, as I have tried to say so far, and that we should have worked more on this fundamental issue, without risking going through those torsions and narrowings that risk leading to a further weakening of Parliament, which together with a simultaneous increase in the powers of the Commission, in our view risks creating a situation that is difficult to manage, moreover with a series of mechanisms imagined and, in my opinion, frankly very questionable, such as the preferential lane for the government's bill or even the electoral model of the other branch of Parliament. Then there is one last reflection that I want to make: exactly as I had the opportunity to challenge the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, because I challenged its cultural root, that is, the fact that that type of reform was put in place, because in the country there was a climate of a certain type, in the same context all the way the idea that this reform is done simply because we have to respond to anti-politics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Cristofaro, I invite you to conclude. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm about to finish, Madam President. Mr Boschi probably does not know this, because he was not yet a Minister and during the past months he was, of course, sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, but I can assure you that in this House I have been a total opponent of all populist and demagogic hypotheses. However, Madam Minister, just as I think that demagogy is a dramatic thing for the Republic and an element to keep light years away, I also say that there is an even worse demagogy, and it is demagogy from above. I fight all the demagogies: the ones from below and the ones from above. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u139	Mr President, in view of the importance of this debate, which concerns major changes to the Constitution, I believe it is necessary to speak. I think it is right that all the groups in this area of Parliament should of course do so. I would like to make it clear from the outset that our attitude has always been very constructive: we have demonstrated this in the Commission, through the work of the co-rapporteur Calderoli, through the vote in the Commission and also through the decision, which was expressed first by our leader, Senator Centinaio, not to sink the debate, but to accept it; to accept the discussion of ideas and debate and to accept the discussion of the amendments, without closing the debate even before it could begin. A speech is to deepen the issues in the Commission; another would have been to close the debate without even starting it. Therefore, our position seems to me as clear and consistent as ever. We accept the comparison if, however, there is a willingness on the part of the Government and the majority to further amend the text, which has also been improved in the Commission. There are points that are not good for us and that cannot be voted by an autonomous and federalist movement like ours: I refer to all those articles that still establish the centrality of the power of the State with respect to the powers of the local communities and of the citizen as a whole. There are points that are not improved with regard to the balance of powers (and, therefore, the necessary reduction of Members) and there are further elements that we want to bring to the attention of the debate. I would also like to point out that, with regard to the first volume of the amendments to Article 1, which is very comprehensive (these are hundreds of pages), only 13 amendments belong to our Group and are substantive amendments. Through our amendments to this article, we want to reaffirm some principles and we would like to introduce in the Constitution issues that are of great importance to us, first by incorporating the principle of federalism, according to which local authorities retain resources and leave to the central state only those necessary for the functioning and organization of the country's unitary powers. The principle of subsidiarity is the subject of another amendment which essentially states that power must be exercised at the levels closest to the citizen because it can be better controlled by our communities, so that it is properly exercised and resources are used in the most effective way. We would also like to introduce principles that establish a different relationship between the citizen and the tax system, through two amendments that establish, for example, that tax provisions cannot have retroactive effects and that the tax system is informed of criteria of progressiveness, clarity, simplicity and transparency. These are principles - I believe - on which we can all recognize ourselves, which put at the centre, not the State, but the citizen, in the relationship that must be absolutely balanced. In fact, there must not only be a balance between executive, judicial and legislative powers, but there must also be a proper relationship in the Constitutions between the role of the State and the citizens. That is why, through two other amendments, we propose to include two fundamental principles for us. The first, in essence, starts from the assumption that individuals, citizens, communities, peoples delegate their sovereignty to the State, but only within certain limits that cannot be overcome; if this happens, individuals, citizens, communities, peoples not only have the right, but have the duty to rebel, to resist and exercise, obviously not violently, even civil disobedience, in order to defend their rights and their freedom. This principle is highlighted in one of our amendments, which has also been tabled by other colleagues and which we hope will be included in the Constitutional Charter. The last principle on which we call for the attention of this House is the principle of self-determination. Always on the assumption that the individual and the communities are sovereign in relation to the State, it cannot be assumed that the form of States is immutable and that communities, if they consider it necessary, cannot, through a democratic and referendary path, self-determine themselves and decide to create an autonomous, independent and sovereign State. This principle is constantly being exercised in the world: we see constantly changing the boundaries of States and no one believes that this should be a taboo. We would also like our Constitution to cease to regard the borders of states, which are organizations decided by men and communities, as intangible, as something unchangeable. I also recall, among other things, that in our Constitution, however, there is an article, the 10, which says that the Italian legal order complies with the rules of international law that are generally recognised as such. I believe that the principle of self-determination is a pillar of international law and that therefore there would be nothing wrong if, taking note of it, we also included the principle of self-determination in a clear and unequivocal way within our Constitution. It is clear that these principles are touched on in the debate on the amendments to Article 1, but then we also touch on another very concrete and very important aspect of the debate these days, which is the number of Members, namely the number and composition of the two Houses of Parliament. I believe that on this article and on this issue in particular, and not on those I have mentioned, which perhaps will find us alone in the debate, the House will be called upon to take important decisions. In other words, it will be necessary to determine whether the distribution of seats between the Chamber and the Senate is correct as envisaged by the Government, in which it is evident that those who win the elections to the Chamber will have absolute power over all the decisions, even the most important ones (for example the election of the President of the Republic), or if they really want to create a balance of powers. Only by reducing the members of the Chamber of Deputies will this result be achieved. We, in line with this position, have tabled a number of amendments (I believe a couple), which provide for a reduction in the number of Members and of course we will support the amendments of our fellow Members who are going in this direction, in line with what we have said. It is therefore clear that, if the will is to reduce the costs of politics, this must not be done by eliminating representation, but by reducing the number of members of the Assemblies, in a balanced and correct way, which is not contained absolutely in the proposal put forward by the Government. This situation and this consideration lead us to think that in reality the question of cost reduction is a mirror for the lark, an issue on which the Government relies exclusively on to obtain popularity and consensus from the citizens regarding this debate and the modification of this text. But in reality the main objective is another: to determine that the party that will win the elections in the House in fact has absolutely total power over all the decisions that will be taken. We therefore hope that, with regard to the amendments to Article 1, beyond the amendments that we have tabled and in which we deeply believe, at least on this point, the House, which is sovereign, will decide to vote on amendments which involve a reduction in the members of the House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u140	Madam President, I would like to explain the amendments from 1.1 to 1.50, which are essentially divided into two blocks: one of the deletions and another of the amendments and additions, which relate in particular to the number of Members of Parliament. The former, that is, the suppressants, have a meaning, because this is a matter of talking. What is the function of this debate? What is the point of having tabled so many amendments? The reason is that there is hope that it will not be a soup to eat otherwise the window will be blown, i.e. that we are not reduced to the condition of saying that we are going ahead and everything else does not matter, we delete it and has no right to exist. We are talking about one of the two Houses of Parliament that has been formed, regardless of the constitutional assessments that subsequently took place in the political debate, with regular and legitimate elections. So we all hope that this debate will change the text. Two distinct visions are compared. I address the comrades of the Democratic Party in a special way, together with whom we participated in the elections (it is true that after the world passed, but without going through the vote: the world passed in violation of the vote). We participated together in the elections, in the name of the common good, which is the meaning that was given to the political battle that had been put on the field at that time, because the value that we wanted to defend was precisely that of the common good, of a united perspective in favour of our population. Then there were other events that could have been dealt with in a transparent way: if we do not win the elections, we return to the citizens and accept the challenge, also proposing an alliance between PD and CentroRextra, which might have been successful, but we preferred to solve the problem within the institutions. In a situation of this kind, two visions are confronted, as I said,: one is that of the common good, from which we have absolutely not strayed, and we want to keep faith in that commitment we have made with the elections with our national community; the other is that of so-called governability at any cost, however and in any case. The main value that is proposed in this reform is that of governability, of the decision to be taken, fast, in some cases instantaneous, that it must not find troubles, while on the other hand there is the vision that favours the right-duty to the participation of all, of the local communities, of the whole national community, of the social forces, of the workers. Why do I quote workers? Why workers are the main protagonists of our Constitution [[Applause from Senator De Pin]] : In fact, they are not mentioned in the articles of accessories, but in the articles containing the fundamental principles. There is talk of workers in Article 1, for example, in which it is said that the Republic is based on work, but also in Article 2, in which reference is made to the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. Unnegotiable obligations of solidarity! And our country is in a condition in which it needs solidarity: political solidarity, economic solidarity and social solidarity. In Article 3, again, we speak of the equal social dignity of citizens and of the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. And what about Articles 4 and 5, in which there is the protagonism of our population, in its main meaning, of those who participate in the construction of the future and the perspective of the entire national community? The deleterious amendments we have proposed have a function, that of drawing the attention of the Government to the fact that the one to which it is putting its hand is not Part II of the Constitution; no, that is not the case. He's getting his hands on Part I. [[Applause from Senator Fattori]] This was the opinion of the center-right; it was the opinion of the head of the previous government, of that of the center-right majority, who wanted to substantially modify Part I of the Constitution, recalling the protagonism of the enterprise compared to that of the workers. That was the vision of the center-right, most respectable, but it was not our vision, nor was it yours with us, colleagues of the Democratic Party. It is Part I of the Constitution that is attacked, when the spaces of effective participation - as I said - of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country are limited and when citizens are not voted to choose who should lead democratic institutions. The primaries of the Democratic Party are not enough, the primaries of party, of any party are not enough: to guide the institutions requires the consent of the country, of all voters and, above all, of all workers, who must participate - article 3 of the Constitution - in the political, economic and social organization of the country. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] We therefore make this effort, even of discussion, to say that we are not the ones who want to leave things as they are, even those who do not work; but we choose well what must work. To date, in fact, since the beginning of this long debate on the quality of republican institutions - beginning with political and social institutions, that is, with the political organizations of the parties and the social organizations of the unions - we have gone worse, not better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u141	I invite you to conclude, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u142	URAS (Misto-SEL). I'm done, ma'am. We propose to the Democratic Party, before any other, the commitment to participate actively in the reforms, if Part I of the Constitution and its values are fully recovered. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u143	Madam President, first of all I would like to subscribe to Amendment No 1.1606, which was first signed by Mr Crimes and, if you will allow me, I would like to explain it, because - in my opinion - the subject is very dear to the whole of my parliamentary group and deserves careful consideration. On 25 June, in the Commission, Mr Endrizzi pointed out that the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs did not incorporate the amendment relating to the direct election of the members of the new Senate, which was also included in the guidelines set out in the agenda presented by the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli. The 5 Star Movement has always claimed to be in favour of the election by universal and direct suffrage of the members of the Senate, assuming that universal suffrage is the very principle according to which all adult citizens, without restrictions of class, education and sex, can participate in political and administrative elections and other public consultations, such as referendums, guaranteeing them the right to vote as a fundamental expression of democracy directed from below. Historically it can be distinguished between male universal suffrage, with restriction on male sex only, and universal suffrage proper, which includes complete female suffrage. Universal suffrage is opposed to restricted suffrage, in which only those who respect certain requirements are voting. The principle of universal suffrage is linked to the ideas of general will and political representation promoted by Jean-Jacques Rousseau: according to these principles, the assumption is drawn up that political representation finds legitimacy in its own voluntarity. The citizens, in modern democratic states, are at the basis of the political system and by universal suffrage the legislative body of a state is elected. In the presidential Republics this is also the case for the election of the Head of State. It is also recalled that France in 1792, after the French Revolution, introduced universal suffrage, although for a very short period of time. Only since 1946 will it be effective and stable. On the other hand, in the Italian peninsula, only in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, in 1848, the narrow male and female suffrage was granted: the only state that granted it then, although limited to the wealthy classes. Giuseppe Mazzini supported universal suffrage; however, during the brief experience of the Roman Republic of 1849, although the Constitution did not foresee it, the vote remained masculine by custom. The first male universal suffrage was approved by the Law of 30 June 1912, No 666, and was extended to all citizens over the age of 30, without restrictions, and remaining voters of citizens under the age of 18 and under the restrictions previously in force. It was applied in the 1913 general election with the traditional double-round single-member college: the first round was held on October 26 and the second round was held on November 2, 1913. It dates back to 1918, with Law No. 1985, the extension of the electorate, still male, to all citizens aged 21 or who had served in the army mobilized. The Italian history recorded an important date before June 2, 1946, or 31 January 1945, when the then Council of Ministers, chaired by Ivanoe Bonomi, issued a decree granting women the right to vote. This was the case with Legislative Decree No. 23 of February 2, 1945. A year later something changed. On June 2, something changed for voters. Between 2 and 3 June 1946 the referendum took place to choose between monarchy or republic, to which Italian citizens and citizens voted for the first time by universal suffrage. The Republic won. To those citizens and to those towns, perhaps our parents or uncles, we owe the Italian Republic. After a year the constituent Assembly, on December 22, 1947, approved the Italian Constitution, providing for Articles 56 and 58 of the restrictions on universal suffrage for votes in the Chamber of Deputies, open to all citizens of the age of 18, and the Senate of the Republic, open to all citizens over 25 years of age. If you don't mind, I should like to focus on Rule 56. This article, considerably revised in relation to the original text, identifies in the two requirements of universal and direct suffrage the conditions for the election of members of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, it must be clear to everyone that any restriction of such suffrage due to reasons of sex, census or education (sanction in the past and then gradually reduced in the Kingdom of Italy) must be considered constitutionally illegitimate, taking into account also the provisions of Articles 1, 3 and 48 of the Constitution. I recall that Article 1 states that sovereignty belongs to the people, Article 3 establishes substantial and formal equality between citizens and, for the latter, Article 48 recognises the right to vote, highlighting that it is personal, equal, free and secret, but above all how its exercise represents a civic duty. Universal suffrage, therefore, is based on the idea that active participation in politics has as its objective the promotion of the progress of the Republic. On the other hand, it seems to me that everything is wanted here, except to promote this progress; on the contrary, frankly, I think that everything is being done to encourage the Republic's regression. Surely it must be stated that the current Article 48 represents the ideal zipper between the part of the Constitution that sees the protagonist of man and the citizen and the articles that govern the organization and the functioning of the Republic in all its articulations. While acknowledging the right to vote as the fundamental right of citizens, Article 48 also sets out the fundamental principles of the electoral system under which Parliament is elected, which - I would remind everyone loudly - must still be the central organ of our system: it must make laws and not just boil them down. The right to vote in elections is the inviolable right of all citizens in accordance with the requirements of the law for the so-called principle of universal suffrage. It is for this principle that we have decided to table amendment 1.1606: vote on it so that we do not say that you are against a fundamental principle of our Republic. Your vote against would mean betraying our parents and relatives who fought for the right to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u144	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 01.4 which speaks of flag and anthem for the regions. The flag represents a people, its pride; it is the symbol of recognition of a community but also of the mayor himself, as well as a banner that takes itself to battle. I believe that we are facing a battle against time, Madam President, if constitutional reform is not adopted at first reading within the summer break, the risk is that the Premier will be present at another European summit, that of 30 August on the appointments of the European Union, without having approved, albeit in a non-final way, the project which, as it seems, holds out more than anything: the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. Therefore, the times are tight and to these will inevitably overlap also some decrees expiration in August, and, as it seems, to resolve easily the problem of these deadlines, you will have no embarrassment to ask the question of trust. The Commissions are working frantically, but trust is around the corner. It is therefore a battle against time and I must also remind myself that the other obstacle is electoral reform, even this flagship and never completed. Moreover, if things are not all right, but all of them, we will be faced with very important economic issues and therefore we will be on the eve of the new law of stability; among other things, there is a rumor of a maneuver of about 17-20 billion. I had already warned the Premier when he was in the Senate and told him to take a ride to the Accounting Office so at least he would realize what's going on. There is also a minister who reminds his majority that the 80 euros in paychecks will certainly become permanent, but also that without growth the margins get very tight and the cover practically impossible. Amendment 01.1 calls for a change that is certainly in the strings of our Group: Sovereignty belongs to the peoples, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. I am referring to peoples, precisely, under their own flag and with their own anthem. Amendment 012 amends Article 5 of the Constitution by introducing the concept of the Federal Republic, which recognises and promotes local autonomy and the principle of subsidiarity. That would be a fine flag too, Madam President. Some professors of constitutional law argue that democracy is to be changed. However, with this reform Italy has certainly gained a negative primacy throughout the European political landscape: a Parliament, which some considered illegitimate for the famous issue of Porcellum, which also asserts the right to change the Constitution, which was first led by Monti, then by Letta and now by Illegal III. The aim of President Renzi is to eliminate any counterweight to the power of the Government and the head of the Government itself. Eliminating the Senate clearly eliminates at the level of representation the body that could curb legislation aimed at strengthening the Executive. Why shouldn't the Executive be so strong? After all, with the percentages taken in the European elections, it is livening of annuity. Behind the habit of responding by slogan to the numerous objections, behind the apparent lack of arguments in which President Renzi speaks of rosicons and owls there is a very precise project, I would say perfect; a project that intends to transform democracy into an authoritarian regime based on the elections of the chief every five years. Among the considerations and many proposals made by the essays of the Quirinale there is a very strange proposal: a government of the Prime Minister. Let us all remember that this is the formula in which the Italian doctrine had defined the fascist State at the time; it is therefore assumed that it could not have certainly been a constitutionalist who made that proposal and, as things are going, we also understood who did it. Given the nature of the electoral law in the House, it is obvious that the power of the head of government becomes enormous, I would say excessive; therefore, trying to modify or block this reform means, senators, fighting for democracy. With an electoral law like Italicum, much but very similar to the much vilified Porcellum, there would therefore be a law that would offer to the head of the government, among other things in a rather abnormal way also secretary of the majority party, a very interesting instrument for those who make politics a matter of personal ego. This can even determine the composition of the body that must supervise the Constitution, therefore the Council, not least the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the election of the President of the Republic. The process of a constitutional reform - we remember for those who patiently follow us from home - is rather long: in addition to all the parliamentary passages between the House and the Senate, there is another rock to overcome: if the majority does not reach two thirds, another three-month deadline is triggered, and it is possible during that period that one fifth of the members of a Chamber or 500,000 voters or five regional councils ask that the change be held a so-called constitutional referendum to confirm or reject the reform. Hence the great idea of bringing the number of signatures needed to hold a referendum to a million. We probably did school in this period with some referendums, especially those on the Merlin law and the Fornero law, for which 550,000 or 570,000 signatures - I don't remember well now - were collected in a very short time. Well, you've done a modification of this kind. In this country only two constitutional referendums were held, excluding the one of 1946 for the choice between monarchy and republic: the first in 2001 for the reform of Title V of the Constitution, which was also approved, when the left tried to monkey the address that the League had given in those years; the second in 2006 for the so-called devolution of the Berlusconi Government, which was rejected. Probably if it was approved, we wouldn't be at this point. It is therefore not a simple but articulated path; or perhaps it is so simple that the current President-in-Office of the Council, who has just been appointed, will declare: I would like to be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this House. He later stated that he would withdraw from politics if he could not complete the Senate reform. We'll see if we can get this thing, maybe he'll be very happy to go back to being mayor. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Of course it bothers me to think of myself as a rock on the tracks: I would be a great saxon! [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group.]] I hate to think that to remove the stones he means that you can get to gags, traps, traps, guillotines: he would be for you a Caporetto from the political point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u145	Senator Council, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u146	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. The President-in-Office of the Council said that the time for referrals is over, that there will be a major turning point for policy and institutions and that this is a good start (yes, very good, Mr Renzi: over 7,000 amendments). He also said that they intend to overcome even the perfect bicameralism, with four stakes: no confidence, no budget vote, no direct election of senators, no compensation, and, again, redefinition of the division of competences between regions and state. This is a good start. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Council. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). President Renzi, we ask you to be a little quiet, to be quiet; you have been to Africa these days and you have also seen issues a little more complex than this Senate. You've already made some mess with the Provinces, but I see that there is no ability to understand things. In conclusion, Madam President, I would also like to add that the idea made by President Renzi is that of the mouse that passes through the hedge of hawthorn, then passes the cat, the dog, the wolf and the elephant. Everyone gets scratched if they come back. He thought well to let the elephant pass even first, so that the other smaller animals do not grab. I think the elephant has no intention of passing first. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u147	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u150	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I apologise to my fellow Members who are making jokes. I am speaking in accordance with Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. I read today that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, at the press conference, following the meeting with the mayor of New York De Blasio, spoke about the serious and grievous events taking place in the Gaza Strip. The Minister said that our country is insisting that in the next few hours we arrive at a ceasefire that is at least humanitarian. What we stress in this speech, given the facts and beyond the press conferences, is the opportunity to change the timetable on tomorrow's day to include an urgent information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Mogherini, on the issues that are disrupting the Gaza Strip and the whole of Palestine. It seems to us, in fact, absolutely urgent that this House should be able to debate and listen to how much the Italian Government, in the person of the Minister, but also of the President of the Council, is trying to do about it. In this regard, I would ask my fellow Members present to vote for the inclusion of this urgent information as early as tomorrow morning, given that this House cannot continue to be informed about this issue and not be able to hold a detailed debate, since we are far from having dealt with it on these days, of course for other issues which are certainly very important and urgent, such as constitutional reform, this issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] However, I believe that tonight it is right, legitimate and necessary, for all the political forces of the Senate of the Republic, to vote in favour of this change in the timetable. I therefore ask, on behalf of the Group and seven other senators - Giarrusso, Nugnes, Moronese, Santangelo, Martelli and Gaetti - to put this urgent request to the vote immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u151	I would remind you that no more than one speaker per group can speak on this proposal and for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u154	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to point out that we support the request made. Last week, however, we had already called for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or at least a representative of the Ministry or the Government, to report back to the House on what is happening in Gaza. Now we are also faced with an invasion of land, but in fact in recent days it was already widely predictable that unfortunately the silence of Europe and the total political inability of our continent to play a political role in such a dramatic affair, brought about this kind of situation in the end. I, too, therefore, believe that as soon as possible we must be able to confront ourselves in this House with the Minister on the dramatic events that are going through the land of Palestine. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u156	You have the right to do so. I would point out, however, that it is 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u157	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I will take just a few seconds. The concern of our colleagues is also ours, but we would like to ask colleagues not to exploit this affair for oblique purposes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The tragedies that are being consumed... [[Protests from M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u158	Please let each Senator speak, because I should already suspend the sitting at 10 p.m. Please, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u159	TONINI (PD). The tragedies that are being consumed in some parts of the world require our attention, but they ask not to be misused... DE CHRISTOFARO (Misto-SEL). You can't say that! You can't tell me that! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We asked a week ago. TONINI (PD). Our proposal is to ask the government to come and report to the House and Senate Councils, as is always the case in these cases. Of course, the Commissions, as always in these cases, are open to all senators. [[Senator De Petris' protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u160	Senator De Petris...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u161	Senator Tonini has to stop accusing people. I repeat, we asked a week ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u163	You have the right to do so. However, I would point out that it has already been 10 p.m. and that I have to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u164	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! Shut up! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, if a vote is to be taken, we are asking for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u165	Colleagues, since 22 hours have passed, this absolutely legitimate vote will take place tomorrow morning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't say that, Senator Santangelo. There's no shame, it's a time problem. If the Presidency has announced that this vote is postponed until tomorrow morning, it will continue to do so. [[Comments and repeated protests from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u166	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-285.ana.u167	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.04 a.m.
