ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u4	SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported) I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Following the quorum check) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,08 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u9	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I rise on the order of business to ask for the possibility of suspending the sitting for one hour, in order to allow the majority groups to discuss the outcome of the work of the 1st Commission following the intervention of the Government at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u10	Instead of an hour we could suspend work until 5:00 p.m. Since no comments are made, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.09 p.m. and resumed at 17.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to take up very briefly the content of the measure in our examination in order to make sense of the debate. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u13	Senator, approach the microphone. I would ask colleagues to reduce the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u14	THE DEAD, rapporteur. Just to stay on the subject, I would ask colleagues to show attention, not to me, but to the subject. I will briefly include the report, which is already comprehensive enough and which takes up, albeit briefly, the debate that has taken place in the Commission. We attach great importance to the bill that we are presenting in this House. It was established in the first Commission in January and arrives in the Chamber today, a short distance from the start of the debate in the Commission, also considering that this debate was suspended for a few days because of the government crisis and the need to resume work only after the new Government was installed. The debate in the Commission was relatively short for two reasons. The first reason is that this debate has been quite shared, especially from the point of view of the central point, I would say almost exclusive, of the legislation, which is to guarantee and recognize, with the instrument of triple gender preference, an important and significant role for women as candidates for the European Parliament. Therefore, this debate has been quite shared and has seen the contribution of the whole Commission, of the female and male components indifferently. Then there was another problem: urgency. In fact, we all know that we are voting on 25 May, so it is a draft law presented in January 2014 but that, in order to be effective, it must be examined in terms of urgency, because the European elections are at the door. It seemed to me necessary to introduce this issue of urgency, of the tight deadlines, because it is actually a political responsibility to have come close to the European elections, but it was also a necessity if we consider that before this draft law there was a regulation that, although transitory, entered into the substance of the problems that have to do with gender equality: there was legislation that had effectiveness for the two legislative acts prior to that which we have close to, but which has exhausted its effectiveness because it was programmed for two legislative acts. So, without this bill, we would have found ourselves exposed, and Italy would have taken not a step forward, but a step backwards, because the need for at least a third of people of different genders on the lists was also foreseen in the previous legislation. Therefore, we have not been content to maintain our position, and therefore to re-introduce in a stable and structural way rules that resolve this problem, but we have also tried to tackle it by adapting to the times, to the maturation that the problem of equality between women and men has had in our country and in the rest of Europe and beyond. We have done so on two lines: the first is that of the composition of the list, and I must say that the Commission has allowed me to bring this draft law to the Chamber, withdrawing the amendments and moving the debate on the most controversial points in the House, which, in fact, are not so much about the gender issue but about other matters that we will see when we discuss the amendments. As I said, the first track is that of the composition of the lists, so in the draft law adopted by the Commission there is an equal composition of 50%, which was not taken for granted and which will also be the subject of amendments by various political parties, but it is the signal that we wanted to address this issue. The other issue, which has also been discussed, is that of gender preference. With regard to this, I must tell you - and above all the women who follow this debate on gender preferences know well, how much more than I do - that we normally talk about gender preferences by reference to double preference, a man and a woman. We have tried this path, and if we have not gone through it, it is because we have tried to reach a conclusion, that is to say the adoption of a law: to influence the number of preferences would have meant to question the size of the districts, because we had to adjust the number of possible preferences also to the size of the districts; this meant to question the scaffolding of the law. This can be done at another time, but now it meant putting at risk the possibility of a result for the battle for equal democracy and equal responsibility between men and women in the institutions and in the life of our country. In the end, therefore, the criterion was reached, which was present in the draft laws presented (there are three draft laws that were linked to the first), according to which one of the preferences must be of different gender, but providing for the sanction that was provided for in the sixteenth legislature for the Municipal Councils. You will remember that for those assemblies the dual preference of gender was introduced and it has been foreseen that, in case of preferences attributed to subjects of the same kind, the second is not valid. This same system has been followed for the triple preference of gender, so, in the text that I submit to your attention, it is expected that if you do not follow this alternation of gender, if the second choice does not fall on a different subject of gender, the second and third preference are canceled. Having said that, I want to go straight to the subject, because I know that so many Members will be involved in the debate, since these are very much felt problems; the bill was shared by almost all the women in this House, and not only by women, thank God, but in a cross-cutting way. There are so many projects, but basically on this principle there is full sharing between us, so I will let the other colleagues who will speak in the general debate, women and men who are, and who will certainly enrich the debate. However, I do not want to pick up on a critical problem that we have had to deal with. I used to refer to the temporal element, because - it is not a matter of covering the shocks - there was a reason when I said that the first draft law in this area, to which the others then connected, landed in the Commission on 30 January 2014. Well, already at that date there were not one hundred and eighty days laid down by the law for the collection of signatures as a maximum limit. In fact, the current legislation provides that signatures can be collected for the European elections from the 180th day before. May 25 is now in a few months, but already January 30 was a deadline that did not fall within the hundred and eighty days. The Commission then raised this problem, and spoke with the Government to seek a solution, including with regard to the composition of the lists, that it was respectful to the maximum and that it did not create conflicts. This is because we must adopt rules in the interests of everyone, and of course we must ensure that our rules are simple, readable, but above all respectful of current legislation, because they must intervene on a system that must be respected. Today, the Commission, which had already dismissed the measure and had already given the rapporteur a mandate, met a representative of the Government, who did not propose a valid and impeccable technical solution: no solution has been found which will allow us to remedy this situation, because you know - the newspapers read them all - that there are already some lists that have started collecting signatures, and none of us wants to interfere with the political life of the parties that have started collecting signatures. Two possibilities have been envisaged at this point: a first, certainly in itself, which I myself suggested and advocated, was to provide that the legislation concerning the composition of the lists will become effective not now with the elections of 25 May, but in five years' time. This is also an important possibility to take forward, because it would allow us to introduce into a law of the State a principle that could be a principle of civilization to which parties can immediately conform. The laws also serve this: to direct on the level of political costume, as well as on that of social costume. Sometimes the reverse happens, but it is possible that you go in this direction. Another solution, the one for which I would be leaning - and I say these things because they are the subject of debate, because in the end, of course, we will have to sum up - is a simpler solution, because in fact we in this Parliament have dealt with gender equality several times in this Parliament too. We have dealt with it on the strong and demanding issue of violence against women, with the approval of the law of ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but also of the legislation on feminicide. The fact that we have dealt with it is important: we are one of the few European countries that from this point of view has been timely and has done - at last - its duty, and much more we should do. We also dealt with this when we discussed the abolition of public funding for parties. I remind everyone, in fact, that Article 9 of Decree-Law No 149 of 2013, which we have recently converted, on 21 February, therefore less than a month ago, provides for an entire article entitled: "Equality of access to elected offices." This article, paragraph 1, recalls the constitutional principle set out in Article 51 by providing that political parties promote equal access to elected positions. In the second paragraph - and this is why I refer to it - there is another rule for the reduction of the sums of funding to parties - it is the funds of voluntary contribution because we have eliminated public funding - that, in providing for this economic sanction, introduces a principle that also applies to the debate we are making. In fact, it is foreseen that, in the total number of candidates of a political party in each election of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic or of the members of the European Parliament due to Italy (this is the case we are considering), one of the two sexes is represented to less than 40%. The resulting principle is that, under existing legislation and on the basis of this legislation, which is added to and implements Article 51 of the Constitution, it should be normal to provide for participation by political parties of at least 40%. We're on this threshold. And then, probably the easiest solution at the technical level, but also political, is to refer to a second phase, in which we can look at European law as a whole, the legislation on the composition of lists for the purposes of admission by the competent office, and to this principle which provides for the minimum share of 40%, then to link this to the fundamental article of this legislation, which is what provides for the triple gender preference and the annulment of the second and third preference when the principle is not respected. We shall see in the course of the debate what the contributions made by the political groups will be. I, as rapporteur, have come from the position expressed in an amendment by President Calderoli, which I share, in order to arrive - and I have asked him for an effort - at the best solution, which I believe is to leave Article 9 to which I referred, to limit it to 40 and 60 as a percentage in the composition of the lists and to approve only Article 1 (c) which provides for the triple gender representation. I would like to make one last thought, and then concentrate on listening to the debate that is going to take place in this House, on the political moment that, in one way or another, obliges us to have a surplus of responsibility. What has happened in recent days in the House has put democratic faith to the test. This is not about rights and privileges, but about unitary democracy and principles to which many of us have dedicated years of our lives and battles of civilizations for the recognition, and not the vindication, of rights. We therefore leave behind a defeat of women and democracy, in the House. Today the Senate, by a mere coincidence - because it was certainly not expected that the two things were simultaneous - is to evaluate this new law, which will of course pass to the House. We have in the Senate and in the House the opportunity to put some extra stakes, to reduce the sense of defeat that women and men, especially very young people, live at this moment due to the misunderstanding that there has been about the lack of respect for gender balance. From this point of view, I feel as rapporteur an additional responsibility, and I feel the need to pass it on to you. It is not a technical matter: we must not divide ourselves into technicalities. There is a political issue here: we need to understand whether an agreement is reached in the Senate with regard to this principle and whether the way in which it has been submitted and proposed is appropriate in relation to the need that we all have. I think so. I think that what happened in the Commission could also happen in this House, where the mandate to the rapporteur was given unanimously. I think there can be wide-ranging sharing, although in the slightly different settings that each Group can have, because it is normal that it is so. I hope that this will happen, and I guarantee full listening from now on, in order to achieve a result that is as shared as possible and that it will also receive what is positive from the House, which will be able to give the right address with balance, even to me as rapporteur, for possible corrections. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and the Senators Bruno, Dalla Tor and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u15	We greet the students and teachers of the State Science High School "Guglielmo Oberdan" in Trieste, who follow the Senate's work from the forums. Welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u17	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to your report. I have to say that, however messy, all the points dealt with in the report are worthy of appreciation and probably also of my sharing, except for the fact, in my opinion, that Mrs Lo Moro, who has paid so much attention to the times, has then - if she allows me between colleagues, perhaps among friends - very, very much, so to speak, cheated on the times. In fact, although I do not keep the priority element of a democracy, namely that the game is already underway, when Senator Lo Moro - and I acknowledge her intellectual honesty - tells us that the collection of signatures for Europeans begins one hundred and eighty days before (i.e. it has already begun) instead of resigning herself to this insurmountable wall, puts us a series of subordinates: this - let me do so my colleague, without wanting to give lectures or of democracy, and less of a balance between genders - is unacceptable. And on this I hope that the representative of the Government, when it is his turn, will be clear to the confusion credited in the report that presented the measure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into the subject of that halo of magic, chance and mystery in the parliamentary calendars. I would say that never like this week, in a story that began in 1948, the bicameralism that seemed dead wrote pages of vitality, and of vivacity even excessive. I'm a bicamera player, and I'm not ashamed to be. I obviously don't accept being insulted about it. It was said that the Senate had to die, with some concern from Mr Calderoli about the fate of the senators (which I do, with all Neapolitan motives on the subject), and we listened this morning, in the explanation of vote in the House and comments on yesterday's day, a 99 percent of those who commented say: We hope that in a few weeks the Senate will... Then, between yesterday and this morning, we saw this very subject coming to the agenda for our part-session. However, Mr Lo Moro, as far as I am concerned, we are more than a hundred and eighty days old. It will therefore allow those who are no less democratic than the Members of the 1st Commission, who are no less pro-European than they are, to express a feeling of melancholy, almost disgusting, in the face of the fact that a journey started in 1979 and which has not led us to any progress, in terms of truly European law by universal suffrage, plays a page all domestic, all provincial, all Italian in Italian bicameralism in a ping-pong, collecting signatures already begun, on what? On gender balance. If I wanted to abandon the academic tradition for the goliardic one I would say that it is the great victory of my colleague Giovanardi. It is finally acquired in the Senate, contrary to what seems in so many texts, that the genres are two: there is not the 2-a, the 2-b and so on. But this could only be vulgarity. The problem is that, as far as I am aware, the democratic problem of the elections is not - I repeat: it is not exclusively, or even primarily, that of gender balance in political representation. In the report written by my colleague, Mr Lo Moro, flying over the reasons for the death sentence (not accepted by everyone, more than twenty years later) of the preferred vote, what was the subject? The rope guy. And here reference is made to the laws of the Regions, to practices for the Municipalities, to territorial democracy, which establish as the rule of the game the genre cordata. I have participated in an electoral campaign in my region with the gender cordata, i.e. with the preference'man-woman', gender, alternating, and what have I seen in return? Strings dictated by logic and suspicion, and I would say - let me say, colleagues of the left - triviality that from your benches I have heard evoke only for the gossip on some evenings at home Berlusconi. Obviously, then, in the terms proposed to us in this text, the route of rope is not acceptable or surpassable in my opinion, or at least falls within a segment of the broader chapter on preference voting. But whatever much or little we are going to introduce in terms of legislative innovation, I think that the one hundred and eighty-day wall should lead the Senate not to legislate on this matter. I would also like to mention all that the contribution of liberal and radical culture, European and Europeanist, from which, with regard to the European and European institutions seriously, we are reminded: Do not change the electoral laws in the vicinity of their use! The use of the current electoral law may or may not be pleasing, but in a parliamentary democracy it must find in the Executive the most arrogant guardian. It is a calendar that has already begun, that has already started, and it cannot depend on the convenience of playing on two tables (I was going to say on two rooms, but then I remembered that explicitly bicameralist in here I remained only myself). Do you really think that a correction such as that proposed is of such importance that it undermines the democratic nature of democracy, the path that has already been taken towards the electoral deadline? It is obviously a coercion, at the service of party interests, positions following yesterday's vote and this morning's vote in the House, in which I refuse to enter, precisely because I want to be a bicameralogist to the end and seriously. There will be no lack of opportunity for all my fellow senators to stand up for echoes and comments, only chronicles or chronicles and memories, of polytology, constitutionalism, equal opportunities and, also, of two genres bis or three or four genres, and of what one wants; but, putting his hands in mid-March on a legislation that, on the last Sunday of May, started to unfold would be a disgrace to our democratic history. It would be a shame, because what I call cordades, anything but cautious and anything but chaste, would overlap with the orderly development of the acceptance of lists in the districts, of the collection of signatures, of aspirations to be elected and of campaigning for preferences, with whom you want and with whom you can reach in due time, not with whom you can destabilize with a law that is passed at the last moment. That is why I am very little persuaded by the arguments of the timing evoked by my colleague Lo Moro: in fact, everything that is central for her, for me is lateral or, at least, subordinate to other concerns; everything that is lateral for her, for me is decisive. I'm also trying to put myself in the executive's shoes. But if at the Ministry of the Interior, in the car of the Ministry of the Interior, you hear: In the Senate - yes, it is true - we are already on the path of one hundred and eighty days, so it is clear that Parliament shows an absolute contempt for the role of guarantee which, in this case, is the responsibility of the Commission. It means that this is a parliamentaryism that claims itself as absolutism, that is as anti-parliamentaryism. Parliament has a sense of the limits of the political struggle. The political struggle must be limited precisely in time and in the manner of the rules. Then probably Senator Lo Moro, if he had had the time to get a written text that summarized what he said to the microphone, thanks to the excellent officials of the Senate would have found a way to put black, or in italics, or as he wants, that wall of the one hundred and eighty days that he would like to see crushed by a political complicity inside I don't know if of the winners or the winners of yesterday's vote (I do not know why I have not yet read all the newspapers today). I therefore believe (and I am counting on the word of clarity that must come from the representative of the government) that the Senate would do better not to climb up and, if it decides to climb up, I will certainly not resort to squadrism or obstructionism, but I will always try not to ignore this wall of Western democracy, of constitutional democracy, and I will remember with a certain irony the strange history of our electoral legislation. In 1953, on the left, especially on the left (it seems to me that just in the Senate from the bench of Lussu a microphone broke on the head of Minister La Malfa, unbreakable, of course) you defined "law scam" a law that provided a reward mechanism for those who arrived at 50 percent, and you clinged with all the resources of the parliamentary debate to that insurmountable wall that dated back to 1947, to the Constituent, on the agenda of the day Giolitti, before starting to vote the articles of the Constitution. But how could we have arrived, in 2014, at the unrighteousness of judging the wall of one hundred and eighty days, as the lawyers would say, as the elegant colleague Lo Moro, the term authorising and not peremptory? These are technical terms, and they have the resources of hypocrisy of technical terms, but for such a democracy the hundred and eighty days are a time-limit that is peremptory, and it is vile to say, from the benches of Parliament, that it is not peremptory, perhaps urging as much hypocrisy on the part of the representative of the Government, for he too to say that those one hundred and eighty days are a merely authorising term. I hope that the Senate (Senator Calderoli hopes not), condemned to death in the long life of the senators, will have a life as long as that of the senators. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]] To my colleagues who applaud me I say: have faith, because in the long history of national unity, until 1922 (the one then, President Gasparri, as Benedict Croce said, was a parenthesis), the reform of the Senate was tried several times: it never succeeded. The electoral reform succeeded six times. In the name of that reform that never succeeded and of what six times succeeded, right or wrong, including - and excuse me if it is little, colleagues on the left! - universal suffrage, in 1919 the Italian liberal has universal suffrage [[Applause from the NCD and LN-Aut groups]] , of one kind, you would tell me, but it arrived, and when you voted happened to win again Giolitti and in 1920 still ruled Giolitti. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Comments.]] I can't say I was there; I was there in 1948, I was just born, but I have the elegance not to say it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u18	Talk to the Presidency, not dialogues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u19	Comrade (NCD). I turn to the Presidency. President, you weren't there either! But in 1948 women, perhaps 90 percent of the nuns, won the winner on April 18 of that year. They did not win Cross and Giolitti: he won that gender representation. I say this because national history must be looked at with respect. The history of Italy is not the story of a great democracy, but the electoral deadlines have always been occasions for real and effective democracy, whatever the tension, also because in the parliamentary assemblies there is no one who, perhaps for understandable reasons, has gone to justify that ping-pong ball that, via Calderoli, Democratic Party and Conference of the Leaders, has arrived in our calendar this afternoon. So, Senator Lo Moro, if you can believe that you have to reset the consecutio temporum, perhaps in response and perhaps requested by the government representative, I will be delighted. [[Live applause from the LAG, NCD and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u20	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to say to you, in order to remind Senator Compagna as well, that in 2004 this same law was amended to include the anti-discrimination rule of two thirds and one third in the presence of lists. Well, this change was made sixty days before the elections that were held, then, in June. Therefore, I think that there is a problem of political will, and certainly not of binding times to be respected and of choices that can and must be made. Mr President, a few days ago, on 8 March, President Napolitano made the following statement, with a great deal of envy: Too often it is said that the issue of equal opportunities is overcome because we live in a condition of legal and material equality between the sexes. Of course it is not true, in particular it is not true in Italy. (17.43) (Following GATTI). That, Mr President, is so true that we are here to analyse a measure which deals with the specific issue of gender rebalancing. Gender rebalancing not only becomes a priority for the promotion of equal opportunities in accessing elected positions for both sexes, but, as the rapporteur wrote in the report attached to the text that we are discussing today, it is essential for a redevelopment of democratic institutions, which requires full responsibility for women and men in this country. At this moment, in the European Parliament, while we are discussing here, in fact, an amendment to the law that presides over the elections for that organ, we have an average female presence of 36%. Italy is 25th in 28 countries, with a female presence of 23 percent, that is 13 points below average. Gender rebalancing then becomes essential, and it is not a problem of pink quotas: it is a problem of democracy and the achievement of equal democracy, of gender representation of great value. I would just like to make a few comments here. Firstly, a legislative change of this kind is part of a long path, which the women of my generation have experienced everything. We started with the electoral law of the Campania Region of 2009, which provided for double preference. Many appeals were lodged against that law to the Constitutional Court; fortunately, judgment No. 4 of 2010 defined gender preference as a promotional measure, noting that it was not any kind of constraint. That judgment therefore considered that gender preference was absolutely attributable to the implementation of Article 51 of our Constitution, which I would like to quote: All citizens of one or the other sex may have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law. To this end, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men with appropriate measures. This was the first step. Then there was a measure approved in 2011, which I too voted in the Chamber of Deputies: I am referring to Law No 120 of 2011 on participation in boards of directors in public and private companies. This indicated a costume change: it was not an electoral measure, but it was an important signal for a costume change, since it concerned precisely the participation of women in the boards of directors of companies. This measure has been very successful. I would just like to point out - in these days I have seen it with a certain irony - the advertising that is broadcast every day on our televisions in relation to the value of Law No 120 and the rebalancing of gender in economics. In 2012, Parliament approved Law 215 for municipal elections and established the principle of dual preference for municipalities over 5,000 inhabitants: if two preferences are expressed, these must be for candidates of different sex. It also established the principle that no gender can be represented in the lists to a greater extent than two thirds and promoted equality between men and women in access to elective positions through the preparation of measures to encourage the under-represented access of gender to elected posts. After the adoption of this law, many regions have legislated in turn, and we have therefore had changes of substance within the elective assemblies. We had them in regional assemblies: I think about what happened in the Campania Region, but also in other regions. We had them in the municipalities, during the elections that took place immediately after (the law is of 23 November 2012, while the elections were held in June following). This has substantially changed the life of the institutions and the participation in those elected assemblies, because equal democracy is also this: being able to express representation of all points of view. A gender view is not trivial, it is not a category: it is precisely a gender, it is half of mankind. We are in a process, in a flow, and I think that you cannot block water with your hands; this is an old peasant saying of my parts. This process will hardly stop, because we have a female population that studies more, a female population that is very rich, that gets more results from the point of view of creativity, that gets more results from the professional point of view and that must constantly fight to assert itself. However, the awareness that a feminine wealth, the possibility of using the wealth of skills, skills and imagination and the difference of a female point of view become an essential element for the development of the country, to make equal democracy mandatory and above all to modernise a state like Italy, which needs it substantially. Then let me think about something else. We have come from a week of great debate and debate in the House on electoral reform. The women of this country feel how much Senator Lo Moro emphasized so well: a sort of great heaviness and sense of defeat because the amendments concerning the changes that guaranteed an equal representation of gender within the elective Assemblies, and not only within the electoral lists, have been rejected in the House. Mr President, the law will come to the Senate, and we will have to respond to a great expectation that women in this country have, that they cannot be humiliated. An electoral law, in fact, is not a law that lasts a short period, but it marks a long time. So, we really need to modernise this country and give legitimacy to the elective assemblies. And one of the elements to give pregnance, legitimacy and possibility to intervene in a concrete and conscious way on what happens in the country is linked to the presence of women in these elective Assemblies and, therefore, to an equal democracy practiced. The point I would like to make is this. We are experiencing a situation of great difficulty and crisis. We all say that this is a cast country, with a very strong bureaucracy that prevents development and prevents it from starting again. And we want to give up women's energy in all this? If institutional reforms go ahead we will find ourselves with a single elected Assembly at national level, the House of Deputies, while the Senate, most likely, will take on another role. And do we not think that there is a need in this House for a rule on gender equality? This should, however, be a fundamental point, and that is why I believe that this rule for the European elections is a very meaningful rule and that it is symbolic. With regard to the problems that have been presented, on the one hand I would like to recall the consideration with which I opened my speech. This same law was amended sixty days before the other European elections in 2004. So, there is no such great difficulty in intervening during the one hundred and eighty days. I think that there are all the possibilities, including the possibility of amending them, to rectify the situation and that we should go through them all in order to reach agreement on this point. It will be important to give a different signal: to show that from this House, from the Upper House of the Italian Parliament, comes, after what happened to the House of Deputies in recent days as regards national electoral law, a new signal, of force. That is the other point that I would like to stress before making a final notation and concluding. We are in an extremely difficult situation. We will soon - in two months - vote for the European elections, and there are also harsh forms of anti-Europeanism that cross Europe, but also our country. In my opinion, it is not indifferent to the fact that we have a concrete representation of our country within the European Parliament. I think this is because in the European Parliament we have the countries of the North which have a very high female representation (higher than that of men). On the other hand, we have the countries of Southern Europe, including Italy, which have difficulties and struggles, which are those in which the crisis bites the most and which have the greatest difficulty in relaunching development and growth. Well, these countries need to be represented and needs to be represented also the view of women in this country about the crisis, fundamental; because women are the ones who feel the most in terms of family relationships, in terms of difficulties. I am thinking of all the issues relating to the ridiculous percentages of women's employment in our country, against a very high qualification, in view of the fact that we have such a high number of female graduates. So we have a lot of expertise and we disperse a lot of this expertise. Perhaps this kind of suffering needs to be represented in the European Parliament, and this could also help us to overcome all the heavy forms of anti-Europeanism that are emerging. Let me make one final remark. 2013 has been an important year for women in this country; it has been a year that has marked the life of the Chambers, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, for all the interventions that have been made against gender violence. We were one of the first countries to ratify the Istanbul Convention; we legislated on feminicide. In short, it has been an important year for women, and 2013 will be remembered by the women of our country in this way. Then I think we have to do this - this is a wish but it is also a commitment - that 2014 is the important year for Italian women because we will be able to bring home this reform of the law for the European elections with the possibility of expressing gender preferences and also - this is another hope and commitment - an electoral law for the national Parliament that maintains anti-discrimination rules and gender preference. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Pin and Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u22	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a recurring issue, it is an important issue, it is an issue that is being discussed everywhere because it certainly deserves attention: the balance of gender representation is certainly an issue that requires everyone's attention and commitment. It is my position, my opinion, in a confrontation that probably crosses across and frees political groups and parliamentary groups. We have also seen this on recent occasions; we have also addressed this issue in the Chamber of Deputies in the debate that ended a few hours ago on the electoral law for the national Parliament, or rather for the House of Deputies; but it was also discussed yesterday in the European Parliament. I am opposed to the rigidity of quotas, and I am certainly not opposed to gender representation, but because rigidities are likely to create reactions. (17.59) (Following GASPARRI). I was amazed at what happened yesterday in the European Parliament. Yesterday it was called upon to discuss a broad motion for a resolution on women's issues (but not just gender representation), which I believe was the result of a long work of the European Parliament due to the scope of the text (as I have been able to examine it). It was about violence, work, all the important issues that are often rightly discussed with regard to the presence of women, the rights of women being violated, the need to protect the presence of women in the world of work, in social life and also in the institutions. Only part of the broad motion for a resolution that was discussed yesterday (I believe that the European Parliament met yesterday in Strasbourg and not in Brussels) concerned equality in decision-making, points 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of this text. This non-binding motion for a resolution, because it is an act of directing the European Parliament, concerned electoral quotas and the need to increase the representation of women by means of legislative measures which are, as is well known, the responsibility of national parliaments. Yesterday, after a work which the European Parliament certainly has done for months and after dealing with women's rights, the motion for a resolution was rejected, with a certainly opposed vote, which saw some ninety abstentions. This has been the case in the European Parliament, which has often been characterized in recent years for having taken innovative positions in many areas of social life and political and regulatory debate. The European Parliament has therefore rejected an entire motion for a resolution, because I do not think that we could vote for separate parts, even an excessive act. I too would have voted against some of the points in the resolution, but having read it, many others seem absolutely acceptable, necessary and desirable. I agree with many of those proposals on the issues of violence, equal rights in the world of work, but also in the world of institutions and politics. I therefore call on my fellow Members to discuss it calmly. I would like to speak above all to denounce the climate of intolerance that occurs when we take a different position on the issues of quotas and gender equality, as if to make some observations are a symptom of obscurantism, of negativity and, therefore, in the collective imagination, in the journalistic description and in the public debate and not only in the parliamentary one, we are pointed out as someone who supports a politically incorrect thesis. I therefore believe that the introduction of mandatory constraints is wrong. I would remind you that there has been a wide-ranging debate in Italy on this subject. He introduced himself into the famous Mattarellum, in his first version, approved in 1993, the alternation of gender-woman in the proportional part of the lists. That law was applied in 1994 and, then, later, in 1995, the Constitutional Court issued judgment No 422 which dropped that rule and challenged these rigid and compulsory bonding systems. Some might say that the decision of the Constitutional Court is prior to the amendment of the Constitution which was then made to promote equal access. However, by reading the amended Constitution and re-reading the 1995 judgment, that judgment remains absolutely valid, because the Constitution, which is innovative in Article 51, is not that it imposes mandatory constraints and rigidities, but it calls for equal access. I would also like to point out, for the benefit of my political part, that my party of membership, although it has been a major opposition to rigid mechanisms, is also present in the free debate within its various positions, which I imagine will also emerge in this debate, as it is legitimate that it is, from the point of view of promoting the role of women, it can claim great merits. It was the first Berlusconi government to ensure that in the 1990s for the first time a woman was the president of the RAI. Today there is a woman in charge of RAI, but the first was Letizia Moratti, who later became mayor of Milan, elected by the center-right. I remember a whole series of excellent choices, very innovative. I remember the election of Irene Pivetti, very young president of the Chamber of Deputies, belonging to the League and elected by a center-right majority. I remember, more recently, the Government of 2008, chaired by Silvio Berlusconi, who saw the presence of Ministre very capable. Some of them are still part of our party, others, in the free debate of ideas, have made different choices, always within the center-right. These very young Ministre have shown that they are up to the tasks to which the appointment of the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the President of the Council Berlusconi, had called them. They are known and are at the forefront of the political battle: from Mariastella Gelmini to Mara Carfagna, from Giorgia Meloni to Beatrice Lorenzin, to Stefania Prestigiacomo. Some, although young, had already gained previous experience; others were recently in Parliament and in political life. However, they all proved to be very valid members of the Government. Then Senator Bernini joined the government. There are therefore so many women who have been part of the center-right coalitions, of executives and of party leaders; therefore, the promotion of the presence of women is an absolute duty, and I myself, when I had political or government responsibilities, have always sought (voluntarily, and never for a legal obligation) to promote, on equal terms of competence, the presence of women in the leadership of ministerial administrations or, where possible, also in political growth: I have been very busy and very much concerned with the political organization, the formation of ruling classes and, where possible, the promotion of the presence of women has always been a duty for me. The European Parliament took a decision yesterday that we must not see as hostile to women. Obviously, however, in the face of an attempt to impose constraints and too binding guidelines, the European Parliament has felt that it has expressed itself differently. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1995 contains still valid observations: the constraint, the obligation, the automatism are not jovable. I then record the contradictions, but here I would enter into a debate that we will face in the coming weeks when we talk about the electoral law for the National Parliament. It is said that in this legislature the presence of women is (and it is true, the numbers say so) higher than that of other legislators, and some parties (not mine) have made a contribution in the average higher than that given by my political side: I have no difficulty in recognizing it, it is the numbers that attest to it. But look at this: it was possible, paradoxically, not with preferences, but precisely with blocked lists, the vicious blocked lists. Historically, in fact, in a country that has elected many parliaments with preferences and that will still elect the European Parliament with this system, women have often suffered more to assert their rights of presence through the mechanism of preferences. The situation is such that I see that, on the one hand, some call for preferences and then say that it is better that there are more women; on the other, however, the laws with blocked lists are reproached, but it was those regulations that allowed the parties (I don't believe much at the primary party celebrated under Christmas) to make certain political choices in the compilation of lists; the blocked lists may have a thousand flaws (I don't go crazy about it), but they allowed political formations to allow women a greater presence, since statistics tell us that on average (not always, there are women who take avalanches of preferences for their determination and ability to be protagonists on the territories) that system did not favor much the rebalancing of gender. So I have a wish for the discussion here in the Senate. I do not object to Senator Compagna, who also referred to the destiny of the Senate, to history (I now see Senator Compagna at the bench of the Presidency, where we are correctly addressed during the speeches): I am keeping on a more topical plan. Moreover, I have seen that the debate is very free on institutional issues and on the composition of future parliaments. I have noticed that colleagues in the LAG Group today, rightly pursuing the logic of saving, have proposed the abolition of the House instead of the Senate, because, being wider the House, the savings would be greater [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The applause was not called for, but I say that, in the freedom of debate, the ways of the Lord, of parliamentarism and even of democracy are endless. I therefore believe that we should have a free debate. The amendments tabled to this draft law are various. I believe that the proposal, I believe Senator Amoruso, on the introduction of a single preference, rather than sharing one, two or three gender preferences, should also be considered. I do not dwell on gender because I might be misunderstood, but I wonder why two genders and not (for those who support other types of orientation: not me) extend this guarantee to other genders. In my opinion, perhaps a single preference could be one of the options to be married: it is contained in an amendment, and I will vote for it myself. Then, with the unique preference you avoid roped. It was also said in the past that multiple preferences allowed almost to recognize the vote and favored stringed. A referendum was held in 1991 to abolish multiple preference in the elections for the House of Deputies and in 1992 the House was voted on with the sole preference: it is a possible way. With the sole preference the voter votes who wants: a man or a woman. Or I see that there are other hypotheses: it seems to me that it was Senator Bruno who presented, just a few hours ago, an amendment according to which, if the three preferences are maintained, if three are expressed there is an obligation that one of them be of a different kind, so that if one voted a single preference or two preferences, as the legislation allows (there is no obligation to express them all three; one can also not express any of them by limiting himself to voting on the preferred party) there is the possibility that a third preference is reserved for a different kind. If one expresses only two preferences, he can vote for two women: why prevent two women from voting if there are valid personalities, or two men if one thinks he is doing so? Therefore, I would urge the House to reflect on the amendments that have been tabled, and I would also urge caution in manipulating the laws, because we know that signatures could already have been collected on lists today. [[Senator Bencini's comments.]] The legislation provides that one hundred and eighty days before the European elections we can already begin the collection of signatures; if someone had collected them - I read in the newspapers of lists even foreignfiles with names of Greek leaders who are already announced in their composition - in case we change the legislation and those lists do not comply with the requirements introduced, what is done? Do those signatures get burned down? We have already seen how many litigations have opened up on the collection of signatures on regional elections, and how the discussions have been slow, but also because of suffering and dramatic decisions. So, let us be careful, because the decisions taken on the eve of an election round are likely to cause uncertainty and controversy. I therefore believe that balanced and wise solutions can be adopted, but I would like to stress, as I move quickly to the conclusion of the intervention, that, above all, we must have the right to discuss these issues without being afraid of being pointed out. Suffice it to see what happened to the House (I do not want to reopen wounds): if there has been a contrast between the public statements and the secret vote of some parties and groups, it means that obviously not everyone thinks the same way, and some have to resort to the secret vote to express their true orientation: which is a problem for them. Personally, even in these days - I am talking about the other debate, which we have not yet begun, but which has taken place in the House - I have expressed in the light of my opinions, which I do not consider hostile to women, but which were hostile to a type of rigidity that was intended to be introduced. I repeat, here too I am open in the next few hours to reflection on the various amendments, including the deletions, on any innovation that may retain, in the three preferences, the possibility of choosing any kind. Often the European elections have seen the candidacy of political leaders who have been candidates (it will be a positive or negative choice) to give a face to their parties, and not all have then been able to play the role of European parliamentarians, because they are called to other commitments. I have read, for example, that Mr Meloni will be running for head of his party in all the districts, and so if anyone from that party wants to vote for a woman, he will vote for her, but then he will never be in the national parliament, and he will run for strength for his party. It could happen in my party, too. I myself remember running for the European elections years ago, having had over 200,000 preferences and then opting to continue with the commitment in the national Parliament, so sometimes it happens. It will be wrong or right for there to be candidatures at the service of a more general political battle; therefore, even such candidatures could be hindered by rigidities, constraints and predetermined blocks. That is why I believe that either the abolition of any innovation or the choice for the first time for the European Parliament of a single preference, or mediation routes such as those which some have proposed can be a moment of wisdom and reflection. Then, be careful, because also on other laws - but we will talk about this in the future - the desire too much could lead to paradoxical results: too much rigidity, in some respects, could open the way to greater recourse to preferences, and I would not want those who think they have an advantage for a particular genre by pulling too much rope can determine rules that cause a disadvantage. I therefore call on all my colleagues to think calmly about the various amendments that have been tabled. The proposal has arrived in this House, as many wanted. In my opinion, times are not the wisest and the healthiest. This should have been done in good time. However, I would remind you that several times someone has said that electoral laws must be made for a European demand one year before the elections take place. Let's talk about the laws for national parliaments. It is paradoxical that we are amending the law for the European Parliament a few days before the lists are presented, when Europe is urging us to make the amendments for the national parliaments as soon as possible. The lists are presented on 15 April, but the formalities and the convocations of the electoral rallies are still previous. I hope that the Senate, freely, responsibly, constructively, in respect of all genders, women and men, will be able to make wise and balanced choices, because the excess of constraints and rigidity has never helped a peaceful and happy path of our democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u24	I greet the students of the Liceo economico sociale statale (State Economic High School) "Giuliano Della Rovere" in Savona and the students of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Pope John XXIII" in Pianella, in the province of Pescara. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u25	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, normally when I speak in this House, I prepare a very detailed timetable for my speech. Often and willingly I write it, just to not give vent or possibly expand some stress or feelings that I feel. Today I decided to intervene by arm saying exactly what I think and feel. I am going to apologize to my colleagues, first of all to my Group, and to others who will be touched by these words. I believe that on this matter which repeatedly comes to our attention perhaps a moment of clarification must be done. I speak today with the heaviness and sadness of what happened in the House yesterday and the day before yesterday. If, in fact, today we had had a good battle of civilization won behind us, we could have carried out these reflections with greater tranquility and with a different wealth of awareness. Once again on an electoral law that all citizens are waiting for, which the Head of State has repeatedly asked Parliament, which all political forces have strongly desired, on so-called gender equality, on democratic representation in the institutions by women, we have failed. It is not that this time there was no political and gender-based transversality. There have been many men who shared that battle and there have been transversally party positions that have also tried out at this new frontier. As always, the funnel of reasoning ended up in nothing. This, ladies and gentlemen, greatly affects the reasoning that we must make today. Because there we were on a clean slate, a new law to write and new rules to offer to Italian citizens. Today we are talking about a law, which we should possibly change, on a path that has already begun: a path of collecting signatures that has already begun and with agreements that have probably already been made within the lists. And so we are not in a good position to have this debate today, because we do not have the cards in order, because once again where the rules are to be written - and this time they were well written - we have failed. Anyone who knows me knows that I will fight here in the Senate with an open face (since we will not have the secret vote), but we have very much missed an opportunity, also because the House was overwhelming, if really the political will of the Groups who would like to amend this law here today was compact. And so, from this point of view, we must all deeply regret this missed opportunity. In 2004 I was in Parliament and I voted firmly on that transitional rule. Too bad, however, that we could not add to that transitional rule of sanctions, so the provisions on preferences, which for two legislatures were in force in our European election system, then went to lose effectiveness: after two legislatures this rule has fallen. Normally these norms are built to give a boost, a shock, because the real political battle of gender equality is a long cultural battle. In Europe of 28, only four nations have a European electoral law that imposes gender representation (one third, 40% and 50%), yet if we go to the European Parliament we see that women are widely represented, because in European countries the cultural debate on the presence of women in elected assemblies has long been strong, represented, sprung up and generated culture of equality. Nobody is therefore surprised by the presence of women on the list, no one is surprised how these women are elected by agreements made within the lists. We have preferences, the other countries do not even have them, and so it is the party agreements that allow women to enter Europe. Therefore, it is a work within the parties: a work that takes breath and takes on importance from a recognised culture of equality in civil society. We Italians are very stuttering about it. We have rules that can very hard determine an approximation of gender equality. We voted on one of the second-level elective positions which should also generate some kind of reversal on the boards of directors; we voted on the abolition of public funding to the parties, but also there we had inserted a sprout, small, so the party that did not respect the proportion 40-60 would have suffered the reduction of funding. But there has always been a commercial. We come to the present day, and we discover, or we remember that we need to analyse the European problem: an expired transitional rule and a rule that should come into force despite the fact that there is already a collection of signatures on the subject. Why do I say we always stutter? Because we never have the courage to confront definitively and face-to-face what might be a shock (I guess), but that would certainly be very positive, although transitory, and real. There is therefore no need for small commercials, but a political commitment to change, through good practice, behavior which is certainly not fair. If we do not strongly reverse this kind of trend, we will never be able to fully demonstrate in fact whether our electorate, the citizens, are really mature in order to achieve for themselves what should be extremely natural and that in other areas it already is. I am referring to the presence of women who are elected, and who are equal to men. It is a pity that even this time, on this bill, we risk not taking the complete step. We deal with preferences, but they are only the tip of an iceberg. We don't deal with the list, the list formation. Today we stutter on this too and we postpone to the next occasion, although we know that even in there are nested the worry and the escamotage to overcome gender equality. We know that very well, and this time too we just draw a minimal path, without pointing to the great problem. Once again, therefore, we miss an opportunity, and we also lose it in the European assembly, because, as always, gender representation in Europe will certainly be lower than in other countries. The commercials, ladies and gentlemen, are worth nothing if at the moment when we have to decide and write the rules we continue to stutter, we continue not to have a profound impact on what should cause an objective shock capable of generating a cultural reversal. The rules have a pedagogical bearing, they are not neutral. Standards go to school. The rules have a profound impact on the social fabric. Standards create opportunities, if not for us, for those who come after us, men and women. Do not deeply affect the true drama of our reasonings will lead us not to make courageous choices. We did not make them yesterday and the day before yesterday and we do not do them with this measure, but I hope that we will have the courage to soon reverse this reasoning when, here in this House, we are called - we - to write the rules that will lead Italian citizens to vote in the near future. We have taken a few steps, many of us have to take them; the attitude that, however, once again I feel in these classrooms does not make me happy, confident in an objective and effective reversal. See that it is not a problem of women's perching for women: proof of this is that, even in the House, very interesting reasonings have been made. We, however, must have the courage to tear the veil of hypocrisy that exists. It is not a problem of running for interesting women, intelligent women, good women: we need to eliminate a veil of hypocrisy that also dwells in these reasonings, and that makes us say that these excuses cannot be the root of the solution of our problems. We must have the courage together, men and women, to think about the future and equal opportunities for all. I believe that we are doing this today in this House, unfortunately, starting from a vulnus that is not right. If, in fact, we change in the course of work the rules that must apply to all and that are the foundation of our being together, if - I repeat - in the course of work we change the rules, we risk to operate a further vulnus compared to what I have described so far. Too bad you didn't operate in time, 360 degrees, on this subject. It has been known for five years that the European elections would take place this year. Too bad to have let all this time pass, to arrive at an absolutely unsatisfactory, immature solution, which will certainly produce nothing useful; also because, since there is never a sanction, these rules are beautifully exceeded, eliminated forgotten, probably even mocked. Again, therefore, for the umpteenth time, we have missed an opportunity. We are missing an opportunity, and certainly our path towards equal democratic representation in the European Parliament will also be missing. And it is a shame to hand over, again this time, a strangled result, to the citizens and citizens of our nation. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u27	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u28	Madam President, while there was still a debate in Rome on pink quotas, yesterday the Parliament in Strasbourg, the European Parliament to which we today dedicate this draft law amending and trying to introduce additional elements of empowerment - as we call it in European jargon - of the role of women in the various areas of society, starting with institutional ones, rejected a motion for a resolution, albeit not binding, on gender equality in the European Union, which asked the Member States in which the representation of women in the assemblies is low (and between these countries Italy is also included) to consider the introduction of instruments for strengthening, what in some cases we call pink quotas, depending on the electoral systems, or, in the case currently under discussion and the attention of the House, instead they are meant to offer an additional opportunity, if that opportunity is dedicated to a kind other than that we might have been able to vote with only one preference. It was a proposal from the United Left, and I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Gasparri, who spoke before me, that it was rejected, but it was rejected by 10 votes, which means that it is an issue that goes through everyone's consciences and political positions. Senator Bianconi's speech has certainly highlighted this as well as the comprehensive, detailed, in-depth report which our colleague Mr Lo Moro has carried out in introducing today's issue and the debate that has taken place in the Commission. That Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is at the centre today, will become the traffic light of a series of crucial crossroads for the life of democracy, the future of democracy in our country. I just want to remind you briefly that, looking outside the national enclosure, Italy respects a little 'average of the proportion of female presence already established and consolidated in our Assemblies, in Parliamentary Assemblies all over the world, where the representation finds its maximum expression. It is that 20% around which stands the average of all parliaments. The aim of strengthening these instruments, quotas or promoting the presence of women in both lists and voting mechanisms is to make the participation of women more numerically and more profitable, seeking to increase the presence of women in the institutions, through the use of instruments provided for by law or provided for in the selection of candidates within the parties. Beyond the numbers, which are also very interesting and which I would like to be able to propose to the attention of the House, the synthesis I try to make is that where political parties and party systems are strong of ancient traditions, long history or strong because they are linked to very significant principles of fairness and transparency, which often provide for very strong sanctioning mechanisms, there is no need to intervene with legislative measures in support of quotas in order to ensure participation or election of a strengthened female presence, which is, however, the objective of all. Where the parties are less strong, however, in those countries the shortcut of the amendment of the law is more easily accessed, so to speak. I say that, Madam President, in very positive terms. I do not know if Mrs Bianconi is right when she reminds us of the pedagogical force of a law, in my cultural and political formation I like to think more that the law has its own strength because it indicates a path, an objective: it indicates the conquest of that equal dignity that all the great philosophical and political formations of the last century have intended to guarantee humanity, without distinction, in that universal value which is the right to be the first protagonists of its vote as holders of the active electorate. I am referring to that universal suffrage which any of us considers to be the foundation of a democracy. Within that there is the right to a passive electorate that is representative of what was the society of yesterday, of what is the society of today and of that society of tomorrow that we imagine. Could we have discussed this subject today if other women, before us, and other political thoughts, before what we are trying, often badly, to represent, had not posed this problem? No. I want to remember how we voted only in the last century in our country. Yet many of the generations still present in this House come from that culture: they have represented it and embodied it very well. It is, however, some time ago that we stopped on the road to achieving and strengthening that dignity and equal opportunities that we want to guarantee to all. We stopped because a cultural model, a socio-economic model, went into crisis. Today we are here to rethink, with the excuse of the elections, the representation of a society whose changes and evolutions have not yet been fully understood. In fact, we were all busy discussing modern society, and we suddenly found ourselves in a society modernized by some elements - strong elements - such as those of growth, well-being and consumption: that model of consumer society changed the connotations, even cultural ones, of this society a little at a time. Today we suddenly find ourselves dealing with a society that has all that legacy behind it and that opens the window to an economic crisis that changes the perspective. That's when everything becomes asphyctic, tight, determined and fear-oriented: today we know what we have, but we don't know what we will have or what we will be able to maintain. In all this we lose a part, not only in terms of representation, but of the extraordinary contribution of women in this Europe to possible growth, to the new possible growth, to the different and new economy that we still have to build. For the truth, in our country we still have to show that we have understood that that economic and social history has closed and that another one is opened. We continue to delude ourselves that we are approaching the lowest point in a crisis or that we are going through a crisis. In fact, we are going through a land of middle ground, which lies between one type of economic development and another type of economic development, and therefore of social development, in particular of our continent. All the great geographical areas of the world are touched by this, ours in particular, because it is the oldest, oldest model, but what was the cradle of this democracy. And we must succeed in crossing that land in the middle by saving and safeguarding everything that has constituted the foundations of our democracy, from Athens forward. In order to return to the issues that are closest to us, we must understand how we can translate the meaning and role of different genders in this society, with respect to the new economy that is before us and to the social and economic model that sees the family (the one composed of a man and a woman) at the center of profound transformations, and how all this translates into a fair, just, timely, useful political and institutional representation. And then, beyond the important examples, a few numbers I wish I could discuss them. The percentage of women in parliamentary assemblies around the world is 20%. In Italy the share is 31 percent. We are ahead of France in this, and so are other important laws such as these. We are in front of Britain, which has 22%, and Portugal, which has 27%. Better than us, they make Spain and Germany, with 36%. And then best of all do those countries, such as Iceland, Norway and Sweden, which have long taken this path, which has now been exhausted, in the sense that representation is absolutely equal (around equal), with 40% and 45% respectively in Norway and Sweden. This is the European landscape within which we move. The data offer us an even wider perspective if we read beyond the borders of our Europe, perhaps analyzing the situation of those countries where the deepest changes are taking place, the deepest economic changes, those that then so much concern us because so strongly impact on our economies. For example, Rwanda - I take this, which is a particular case, a limit - is the first country in the world for women's presence in Parliament at 63.8%. The last is Qatar, where the pink quotas are a real mirage, not only in the desert: the female presence in the Qatari Assemblies is equal to zero. These two antipodes create the framework within which we interpret the profound changes already in place and which will still occur, and provide us with an indication of where the world goes and how this world changes. Equality of access and therefore the opportunity for access to elected posts does not always result in effective and greater representation after the elections, especially because the elimination of entry barriers, with the provision of representation quotas on party lists (for example), does not include policies that completely eliminate discrimination and cultural limits. Here we go back to the root of our problem. What's the real point? That process of cultural evolution, not by virtue of a pedagogical law, but by virtue of a broad and robust process of better quality of our policy and our representation. I think that's the central theme. We are struggling with a deep crisis in our institutions and, before that, in our policy. Politics, living in this crisis, has transferred its crisis to the institutions; and we today bitterly record how institutions and citizens feel and are far away, often very far away. And this is a danger to democracy. We need to recover, in order not to put too much risk to democracy, that relationship, that close and supportive link between the passive electorate and the active electorate that our constituent Fathers intended to write with their blood and with all the strength in this Constitutional Charter in promoting as much as possible those equal opportunities. Today, many years later, we try to consolidate, cement, this principle, worried, not only by a question of numbers, which are not everything, but by the spirit of a time and a country that we no longer know how to grasp. Our country, in fact, has moved forward, more than the pedagogical law. It is the country that indicates to us a path: it is not us, by virtue of a law (this or other), that we are more able to indicate a road to the country. But I would not like to resign myself to this, and I would try to read the important debate in the Commission (and in this House between today and tomorrow) to assess the issue of quotas or the strengthening of the presence of women through the various opportunities. We must abandon the dangerous terrain for which quotas would not be, if properly seen, discrimination against someone, but compensation for structural barriers that still hinder women in electoral processes. Who really knows the electoral processes and has experience and knowledge of them, meanwhile of the country, and then of the electoral procedures, knows well what I mean: that system of power embodied still today by the parties, which are the ghost of themselves but which hold firmly in their hands the control of what is politically organized. And until we have other opportunities, different from those of the parties, to be able to aggregate men, women, citizens in different models of representation, that is the model of reference. We know that, by reversing the concept, those quotas are needed to break down those barriers and to improve the quality of our political offer. Mr President, today Barbara Stefanelli, on the pages of the Corriere della Sera, in an interesting article reminds us that, in these days in particular, but in general for a long time, fairness, that principle of equality that we all wish to inspire, has become the battle of a kind for a genre. Not a political, economic, social goal that would make our shared universe better. Everything is over, locked in the boundaries - indispensable, of course, but insufficient - of a conversation between women about women. And then let's try to start again from this silence, from the silence of many women on the events of these days, and also of many men. It is up to us, above all, to women, not to be exclusive but, on the contrary, inclusive, to recall that principle which we refer to when we strongly stress our right to equal opportunities. To men, the invitation above all is to try to jump the usual fences, which are very easy to disassemble, as well as many of the clichés that we have heard repeat these days. Just a little pragmatism and a little courage. It concludes, Barbara Stefanelli, with a very nice post scriptum: A prayer to men. In all this debate, suspend the objection of substance. Do you mean that in Italy the merit triumphed until this annoyance of quotas arrived? And that - considering how dominant male representation is in some sectors and levels - there are so many immersive women among your companions, mothers, co-workers, friends, daughters? Yes, you say, because all this debate about merit risks slipping us into a sort of gender battle that would give Parliamentary classrooms a sad image. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I will finish now, Madam President. Here, I am sticking to this strong proposal so that, today, through the debate on this draft law, tomorrow perhaps reasoning about the Italian electoral law, the day after tomorrow continuing this path to achieve an effective and just equality, we can move forward in this House and outside this House, fleeing from fences, ideologies and oppositions that have not helped us so far, reminding us that for many years we have been holding back in the discussion of very important bills that then suddenly one day, thanks to the increasing presence of women in the classrooms, have resolved. I just want to remind colleagues of the years in which we conquered the fact that sexual violence was no longer considered a crime against morals but a crime against the person. We are people, in front of the inevitable of our destiny, that we must know how to build from that democracy that we have so hard achieved and that we do not want to question for any reason in the world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and the Senators Candiani and Lo Moro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u29	We greet the students of the Scientific High School of the Bishop's College of Pius X of Treviso, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u30	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech on this draft law by reporting to you the opinion, which I listened to some time ago in a radio broadcast, of a liberal journalist, convincedly and proudly liberal: Oscar Giannino. The subject dealt with the use or not of legislative instruments to ensure and protect the presence of women in the institutions. We are well aware that the classical liberal position, by opposing discrimination of all kinds in the name of the right of each individual as such, is traditionally critical of solutions such as gender quotas. Yet even a liberal like Giannino, faced with the continuing statistical data in Italy that denounce the constant discrimination of women in the roles and functions of power, declared himself at the end aware of the need for an intervention of the legislator, in the hope that such an intervention could contribute in a short time in our country to that cultural change that represents the essential condition and the main objective for a concrete policy for equal opportunities. In Italy, 20 per cent of women in employment hold a degree against about 13 per cent of men; the situation is similar for the graduate population. Despite this, the graduates play intellectual roles and occupy managerial positions more frequently than the graduates, who instead occupy positions for the majority of technical level or employee. In the figures illustrated this Monday by AlmaLaurea in Bologna it was confirmed once again that five years after graduation women earn significantly less than men on equal terms: 172 euro less on average, on a net gain of about 1,380 euros. If the Italian graduates considered are those who went to work abroad, the pay gap between women and men, although present also in this case, turns out to be less than the one recorded in Italy. There is therefore a more general problem about the social role played by women in Italy and we know perfectly well that the measures that would be necessary for a serious fight against gender discrimination are many and concern many different fields. The measure under discussion, apart from the fact that it concerns the European elections, does not in itself have the ambition to solve problems that are rooted in cultural issues and in the way in which the social state in our country is set. Women in Italy are often social states; they assume family responsibilities which also influence their participation in politics. Yet, politics is more likely to benefit from the increased participation of women. Everyone, I think, has noticed how in places where civil engagement takes the form of political commitment or even more, party, women are minority. Often the female viewpoint is as useful as it is isolated. Yet women engage in civilian as and more than men. What is it that hinders women in Italy to participate in politics, respect, for example, Sweden? Maybe we should reflect on how politics is made in Italy, starting from the territories to arrive at television broadcasts; on the tones used, on the aggressiveness that, beyond the different communication styles, unites all parties. Many women, I believe, would see themselves well in a pragmatic policy of building, but they find it difficult to understand the rhetoric of self-representing politics as a war fought by other means. Helping to increase the presence of women in institutions can be a way to change politics in this country. That is why I am generally in favour of measures that help to force change. The political movement that I feel I am part of wants to change Italy. I am convinced that in order to do so a new political culture must be established in the country that places at the centre respect for people and rules. So a new Italy and a new politics are born, obviously hoping that it will be female. [[Applause from the Mixed, PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u33	Madam President, I believe that the debate that is taking place this evening in this House is very important. It is a debate that perhaps comes out of time, because the collection of signatures for the lists in the European elections has already begun. It is, however, a debate which we consider to be fundamental and which, in spite of this limit, we do not shy away from. The problem of women's representation in our democratic system is in fact a problem very much present in the debate; a debate that goes fast, but which is not represented in the measures that we approve. This testifies to the fact that it is really a problem, and what happened to the House of Deputies demonstrates this. What happened to the House, not with the amendment of an electoral law, but with the structuring of a new electoral law, is a matter that pains us deeply. That is precisely why we are going to propose it to the Senate, because we are convinced that the presence of women in Parliament's classrooms is necessary for our Parliament to follow the debates. The objection that similar provisions do not exist in other European contexts, in which, however, there is a strong participation of women in public life and political life, is an argument that demonstrates the need for such rules in Italy. In fact, in our country the problem is cultural, and a cultural problem is answered, if necessary, even with norms. Once the cultural problem is resolved and therefore the rules will no longer be necessary, they can safely be deleted. At the moment, however, these rules are essential. Personally, I changed my position on the issue of gender representation (I started my participation in political life recently), and I was reminded of this a few days ago by a journalist, calling me for an interview. He told me he called me because he had found on the web some of my speeches against the pink odds, and so he wanted to hear the voice of a woman who was against it. I replied that those were written speeches when I was young, when I believed strongly in meritocracy, but they are positions that I was forced to review when I began my active participation in political life, at the moment when I found no female party secretary to confront me but only men, when I realized that the rules of political participation themselves, even those of practice, hinder the presence of women in political life. I have therefore radically changed my position on this subject, and I have also explained it to the journalist, who was surprised, but he has agreed with me that the personal experience I have told him all in all convinced him of the freedom of my position. As far as practical matters are concerned, I do not know what this debate will produce, but whatever it produces will still be something positive. I consider this debate to be a workout for what will happen, and then the issues that are raised are also issues on which we start to discuss, so we will find a part of the work done for what will then be. Today we are talking about two fundamental points: that of the composition of lists and that of the expression of preference. In my opinion, when the electoral law for the municipalities was reviewed, the best synthesis was found. That law provides that a sex cannot be represented on the lists for more than two thirds of the members, and therefore the other sex cannot be represented to a lesser extent than one third. I think that this is a balanced composition and that what that law provides, namely the expression of preference as a voting method, and in particular the possibility of expressing a double preference if the two preferences are of a different kind, is the best solution. Not surprisingly, in the debate in the House and in the vote on the amendments, the proposal that went in the direction of dual preference was a step (I would say almost a step) from being adopted. I think that this is the best solution, at least at this time, to really promote, if that is what we really want (and we want it to be), the participation of women in political life. Therefore, I realize that a debate on the expression of preference without linking this issue to that of the composition of the lists is a matter of no concern, but I also realize that we can only talk about this today precisely because we are entering into the debate very late. However, I repeat, this is an important debate, because it anticipates what we are going to do. The objection we are making today is that the rules of the game do not change when the game is in the running, but from my point of view, making effective what Article 51 of the Constitution says in concrete measures that can make this participation effective is a very strong principle. Clearly, the position that I am expressing today is absolutely personal, and not on behalf of the Group of which I am vice-president, but I would like to say that personally making the dictation of Article 51 of the Constitution effective at this time means reaffirming a sacrosanct and very important principle for the growth of the democratic system of our country; a democratic system that at this moment, because of a cultural problem, unfortunately, is not completely that from the point of view of representativeness. That is why I am pleased today that I have been able to begin this reasoning on the electoral law for the European elections, and because this debate already offers us the opportunity to make valid considerations even in the debate on the measure that will be discussed in this House in a few days' time. [[Applause from the NCD, PD and Senator Petraglia groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u35	Madam President, the first thing I have to say is this sadness. A debate in an empty Chamber (and sometimes we are used to this) on a subject that should be central to democracy, which has all seen interventions by women. Maybe some men will intervene, I hope. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Senator Gasparri intervened. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He's right, I missed Gasparri! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, senator, other men are registered to speak, if that can comfort you. DI GIORGI (PD). However, there are some men who listen, and that doesn't really make us happy, but let's say it's a positive element. I believe that, as other colleagues have already said, today's debate is a debate that preludes another, which we will of course do in the next few days. A debate that we have followed in the other branch of Parliament, in the House of Members, a debate that has had very sharp points in recent days and which has left us very bitter in the mouth, especially, of course, with regard to the vote. It was a great defeat that we experienced in the Chamber of Montecitorio. A defeat that was defined in the hours (a few days, a few nights): there were times when it seemed that the mediations could work, and then there was a secret vote, behind which many hid themselves. So, it's a heavy defeat, a defeat for Italy. I believe that we will have to recover in this House; this should be the House in which, as far as the Italian electoral law is concerned, we will have a duty to recover - I hope sensitivity helps everyone - this very serious vulnus which, unfortunately, has been determined in the other House. Today is another occasion; it is not that we can talk about anything else. Someone here has said that it is only a discussion that preludes to something else: that is not the case. This is a debate on an important measure - the rapporteur said well - which is a part of that path that we have a duty to pursue, as parliamentarians of this parliamentary term at this historic moment. In particular, women must do so, but all, including fellow men sitting on these benches, must feel a responsibility that must lead this political class to seriously define the principles of our Constitution. I'm talking about equal opportunities. Colleagues, our generation has fought many battles. I can understand the young colleagues and colleagues, much younger, in the House, who may not have experienced all the battles and everything that our generation has carried out in the last thirty years. Maybe they didn't experience it and found a well-defined situation that they somehow found natural. It was already in things, so many women's rights had already established themselves: but how much sacrifice and how many struggles have led to this situation? I can understand why, unfortunately, there is also a shortage in our school; it is not taught so much about everything. On some of the most important events that go on over the years and on the processes that historically come to be determined in a country perhaps there should be more attention on the part of the training system. Perhaps this would result in greater sensitivity on the part of our young people. I am, of course, talking about young people in general, but especially the young people who sit in the two chambers, particularly in Montecitorio, and who obviously have a great responsibility at the moment. But that's it. This did not happen: not everyone has the same sensitivity. Certainly in this House a feeling looks to me, and it will probably happen. I am always among the optimists, among those who believe that we can make a cultural advance in general, that we can take our country to be part of the group of democratically more advanced countries, where civil rights are affirmed and can be affirmed in a more concrete way through the norms. I'm one of those people who believe it. I think this senate of ours will prove it. In this case - I make a small parenthesis - it is interesting to say that perhaps bicameralism will lead to something. We have an opportunity to recover what unfortunately did not happen in the other House. In the process that will involve us in the transformation of the Senate this little satisfaction perhaps we can take it, that of improving a law that came out badly from Montecitorio regarding this point. I believe - and I said this before - that we are now called upon to make a more important commitment, also because it is precisely the electoral law that concerns the European Parliament. In fact, we have to confront each other, and we have an obligation to do so. This Europe asks us a lot and forces us to confront it, but this must lead to more advanced levels from all points of view: competition must also be about rights. Therefore, we hope to be among the countries that are being looked at as an example for an electoral law, relating to the European Parliament, which takes account of women's rights. Because that is what this is about: they are fundamental rights. It was a bit of a heartbeat when I heard some colleagues - I think with great difficulty - defending positions that were probably even imposed by their own parties in some cases and that obviously go against any perception that every woman should have. I was talking before the battles that have been waged - our colleagues will certainly be content - but unfortunately, also on the part of some women (and in the debate of the last few days we have seen it forcefully), this sensitivity seems to be not there and therefore the opportunities are lost. You keep losing your chances. Italy is facing a deep and deep-rooted cultural deficit, which has so far prevented it from ensuring equal gender representation both in political institutions and in the top positions of our society as a whole. We know the debate, unfortunately also supported by estimates and surveys, regarding the presence of women in the places of responsibility. I smiled when I saw, even during the last crisis of government, that series of people entering and leaving the room of the President of the Republic for consultations. I believe that many have noticed us, and I also address the children who are listening to us from the forums: in that event the parties were happening every half hour, every three quarters of an hour or every hour, by the President of the Republic, and those delegations of parties were all composed of men, party secretaries or heads of the House and Senate groups. There was the presence (we counted them) of only three women: now I do not specify who they were, but colleagues will know who they were and to which parties they belonged; quite casually, but, thanks to Heaven, at least three women were in those consultations with the President of the Republic to decide which could be the future Government of our country. How sad! A great sadness once again. However, today we, with great determination, must try to work through this bill that is being brought to the House for the gender balance in the political representation in the elections for the European Parliament. Some figures have already been reported, but the figures are always what they tell a lot: the representation of women within the European Parliament is 36%. Italian women MEPs only reach 23%: this percentage puts us at 25th in a potential ranking of the Member States. Already the talk of pink quotas demonstrates the backwardness and the difficulty to deal clearly with the issue of gender equality. It is not a question of establishing the usual Indian reserves, because they are always ready to say: But how? It's offensive to you! You're asking for quotas? But we have to get to the point! (We have heard this in this House too). It has been said that we have to go to merit and that women have to win their positions with merit. But one forgets the cultural backwardness of this country, so that women, even deserving, do not show up if they do not have the opportunity and if they are not called (and maybe they are not called by law) to be able to occupy some positions within the lists, those lists that are always very carefully managed by the party secretaries. Hence our dissatisfaction with a bill (what we will be called upon to vote in the coming weeks) which is clearly the result of a compromise between parties, which is also heavy for many of us. In particular, it is also heavy for my party, which has always made itself a champion of a series of principles, which are not fully accepted within the bill. But politics is mediation and an electoral law must be done with the broadest possible consensus of the parties. We must try to reach the highest level of sharing. In sharing, everyone has to give up something and, of course, everyone has given up something, and that is the result: an electoral law that we will be called upon to examine in this House next week. It may not be satisfactory for everyone, but it is necessary to ensure that the country can begin its reform process. In order to return to European electoral law, I would say that the situation at the civil level is changing, albeit with the serious delays we are witnessing every day. As far as the situation of women is concerned, which we have already talked about in this House, I do not want to add anything else. Every once in a while we delude ourselves that some things are changing, that our society is moving forward, that there is hope and that there is a future. Of course, we must not think of all the women killed, of the great tragedy that every day is consumed in our country and that is intolerable. Women not only have no rights, but if they dare to raise their heads they are often killed by men, their own men or their exes, and this is devastating in a country. This already shows that in our country the culture of gender equality is still very backward. However, we have a duty: the duty never to miss any opportunity. The ladies remember that we need more and that we need more: but let's try to take what we can take! For example, quotas, for example, preferences and, within this measure, something that determines gender equality. That, I think, is the goal we have to set ourselves. Laws can often define a path, they can regulate something that has become a founding element of a certain society. In other words, there can be processes in place that have been activated and that, in fact, need to be regulated, or consolidated situations in relation to which the law can come as ratification of something that has already happened, of something that society has already defined in its relations. I believe that the bill we are considering today, like what we are going to examine next week, can be something different in the context of our country: it can represent norms that exist and that instead determine a new cultural process; norms that make there can be a starting point to determine a new way of interpreting relationships and asserting rights. I believe that as far as the electoral issue and the presence of women on the electoral roll are concerned, as far as eligibility is concerned, we are in the second case. The law relating to the local elections has already been cited, a law that was well remembered by my colleague Chiavaroli, who has certainly generated satisfaction in women elected in the municipalities (I am among those), who obviously have been able to take advantage of it, and who actually brought so many women into the new municipal councils. Mutatis mutandis, the same thing happened already in the last parliamentary elections of February 2012: it happened that a certain party - my party - decided to use the instrument of the primaries, defining it within its own statute. This has meant that so many women could be voted in the primary and that, therefore, so many of us are not appointed. This is also important. It has been defined as a rule - statutory, of course - which has nevertheless provided for gender alternation in the composition of lists. That is more or less what we would like now and we would like in the law for national elections, that we are going to vote later in this House. The principle of this law is the same. In this case, legislation must be a revival; legislation must help us to carry out this cultural process of democracy and the affirmation of rights that is so necessary in our country. Of course, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission and the rapporteur, because they have done a great deal of work on the unification of the four draft laws that had been presented. It has been a careful work of the Commission, which has led us to a result that can be very positive and that can make our country move forward within Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u36	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree with what Senator Di Giorgi said in thanking the rapporteur for the measure for the work she has done in the Commission: a serious, difficult work, which has, however, found a square - as they say - in the text we are discussing today. We anticipate some of the work, as a colleague who spoke before me said: in this text we are dealing with gender representation and I do not know how far we can go to talk about equal representation, but we certainly try to introduce fair representation of women within the rules for the European elections. Inside the word "equa" can be inserted a world, made up of many battles of women. It is clear that gender representation and, in particular, equal representation, are based on a principle of democracy established in our Constitution, Article 3 and Article 51, which expressly provide for the removal of all obstacles to the representation and participation of citizens in public life. The text on which we are working at the moment, which allows us to vote two men and one woman or two women and one man - if we want to express all three preferences under European electoral law - also leads to the removal of an impediment. Be careful, however, not to slip into the error, in the superficial way of posing and in the wrong mental attitude of those who still talk about quotas. We are not talking about quotas, when the right demand - and here we do the gym waiting for Italicum to arrive - is to get 50-50. It is not a quota, it is half: half of our country, half of the representation, half of all the contexts in which women have the right to sit, with equal dignity and equal representation. The issue of quotas has diverted this reasoning, even in the newspapers, in the press, in the media. I no longer want to talk about quotas, because we continue to do so, in this self-referential way, in the Palaces and in the institutions, countering their respective political positions. Look at the fact that the country, out of here, is far ahead of us: our children, our young people are taking it for granted, that equal representation that is still before their eyes in many situations. Last night, who was able to see the polls of "Dancerò" must give notice to the poller Pagnoncelli that he was the only one who asked a simple and dry question (do you agree or not on the parity at 50 and 50?) and 67 percent of the Italians interviewed answered yes, without "yes" but "yes," "yes," but "yes" or "yes," but how? So also this misunderstanding about the fact that this topic is not of interest to the country, that this is political, that this file on electoral laws does not give the answers that would help the country is another fig leaf that someone wants to use. The country wants an equal representation between men and women, it wants an electoral law for Europe and for Italy that arrives soon and let us know, the night of the same day we voted, who will rule, to get out of what someone calls swamp, someone else calls swamp and that I call broad or small agreements, in which we are all close. It's like sleeping in a bed full of sand - it bothers you in the end. After this small example, however, we cannot pretend not to have another problem, and I say it to us that we are the leaders, the militants, the local representatives of our parties, and in particular of ours, which is the largest party of the Italian left: we also have a problem within us, because it is in the internal democracy of the rules of each party that is based the certainty of having then, in the external representations, of which those with the widest visibility are the electoral lists, the equal representation. We as a Democratic Party have tried and managed to overcome this mechanism, also through the primary mechanism to choose the parliamentarians - primary made with equal lists - but I believe that each of us knows that much can be improved, even at the level of local federations and local Statutes. I say this because, unlike what Senator Chiavaroli said earlier, who intervened before me and said that she was in politics recently, many of us got white hair in the local administrations. Many of us come from that wonderful experience (I am pleased to talk about it to President Lanzillotta, who shared long years of administrative experience in the magnificent Municipality of Rome), many of us have formed fighting with electoral laws for the election of the Municipalities and Municipalities, they have also formed on this issue of representation. I say this because those who have been in the local administrations have really seen everything and more, especially in recent years. I can tell you that the last nineteen years of the Municipality of Rome have seen five mayors and that all the demands that have been made to obtain more women in the places of the decision (I think of the junta, I think of the boards of directors of the big companies, without prejudice to our mayors of centro-left, that over the years have had to adapt more and more, I think for example the last five years) have been achieved only by blows of recourse to the TAR. In recent years we have arrived in Rome to the extreme shame (there is no other word) of a municipal council of 12 people with only one woman, to which was given a response, by the then mayor, of this tenor: Well, out of 60 elected members of the city council there are only three women, if out of 12 of the junta there is only one woman I have done nothing but respect the vote of the Roman citizens and the representation that you have in the courtroom. If that does not suit you, Mrs Cirinna, you should also use the TAR. Well, I did and I won the appeal to the Council of State, with the consequence that he had to put another woman on the table. However, as the first explanatory statement of the TAR and the following explanatory statement of the Council of State recalled Article 5 of the Statute - on which we will then return - which spoke of fair representation, 2 out of 12 was not a fair solution. Therefore, we had to make another recourse to the TAR in order to obtain a third woman and reach that threshold of minimum acceptability of a third in order to try to undermine the principle that the council respected the will of the citizens and, therefore, since there are no women, there should not have been any. Fortunately, in the meantime, Parliament was working and responding to the requests of the many local councillors and regional councillors who said: be careful, the mechanism of single preference is a mechanism that falsifies the election of women. Why? Because, however, that fellow banker of yours that you've had for five years with you in that City Council, or that colleague of yours from Junta with whom you've shared the great projects for your city, the day the election campaign begins is exactly your competitor (if we don't want to call him an enemy), like the others from other parties. Moreover, as you know, gender representation in the internal bodies of the parties is always difficult to obtain (many federation secretaries and many regional secretaries, and this applies to all parties), and therefore, considering the constitution of the lists, the choice of the leaders and the visibility that is given to a candidate, also the possibility that a female candidate takes place, with a single preference, an electoral campaign is less. One who has been elected five times tells you this; one who was considered the champion of preference in the City of Rome; one who, however, you have never been able to spend so much money in the electoral campaign and who has always done it as it used to be: in the market, with the door to door and outside the schools, saying to women: "probably vote one of you, who knows your needs and needs, will make sure that you can be heard in the City Council." But I don't like to talk about myself, because each of us comes from an administrative experience, and each of us can tell this. The basic point is that one cannot continue with the judicial claim that leads to representation (this still happens in many municipalities). Or we must hope that it will happen, as happened, for example, with the current mayor of the City of Rome (but I think of Milan, Turin and many other cities), as happened with the Renzi Government, that equality is chosen by those who make the appointments. Therefore, the mayor chooses to appoint his Equal Affairs Council and the President of the Council chooses a Council of Equal Ministers. At this point, with this bill for Europe we try to widen the possibility of having a double gender preference, or in the case of triple - I do not repeat this because Mr Lo Moro said it very well before - the possibility of having two votes for two women and one man, two men and one woman, or a man alone and one woman alone (in the case of error and annulment of the other two votes). Despite everything I have said so far, we cannot help but address another issue, which Mr Di Giorgi pointed out just now: we are, however, dealing with a matter of a cultural nature. Today, if you see the news of the agency, you will notice that the names of the newly elected Sardinian regional councillors have finally come out: only four women sit in the Regional Council of Sardinia. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). None in Basilicata. CIRINNA' (PD). None in Basilicata. That is exactly what I was going to say, and I thank my colleague De Petris, who has been elected in Rome for many years. At this point, if Sardinia is so, if Basilicata is so, we really must address a question of a cultural nature, a question of a social nature, a question that attaches to the reasons why it is increasingly difficult for women, for young women, for those who actually have every merit possible, get to the candidacy, to the eligibility, to a place on the list that respects and that gives them the opportunity to be elected. In the debate in the House these days on the question of fifty and fifty we heard everything and more. We have heard the return to a family stereotype according to which women cannot run and cannot make a career in politics because they have so much to do in the family, because they have to raise their children, because however there is a huge duty and a weight of care that lies on their shoulders, because in reality - this is true - women are the real social shock absorbers of this country. Fifty-year-old women, those like me, are defined, in a beautiful social and demographic study, as sandwich women. This explains the type of daily life path these women have: they are crushed, like the ham of a sandwich, among their family made of husband and children, who are still at home and who need care (some go to the gym, those who come back from school, those who want to eat, the dog to take out, the bill to pay and their work), and the other piece of the sandwich, the one that pushes them from behind, which is their family to belong to. There are those like me who are lucky enough to still have both parents alive, autonomous and healthy as fish, but who, at 80 years of age, can ask for something. This is one of the arguments put forward to demonstrate that political careers are becoming increasingly difficult for women. If this is true, it is also true what President Renzi said a few days ago wonderfully on television: the question of gender representation and equal opportunities is intrinsically linked to the services given to women in this country, to the help given to them precisely so that they can also be realized in their political life. There is therefore a need for a social mechanism of networking, support and help, ranging from a place in the nursery to a care centre for fragile elderly people. I always think of the tragedy that happened to one of my secretaries a few years ago: suddenly her mom got sick of Alzheimer's and she stopped being able to do anything, because she didn't have enough money to pay a carer, but her mom couldn't be alone anymore. Here, this is the network of solidarity and services that must be tightened around women; from there they can also start to realize their representation and their presence in politics. This is the cultural point on which we must work and which unfortunately we cannot untie and we cannot keep away from the phenomena that the chronicle puts us under our noses every day. If women continue to be killed, if women continue to be subjected to violence, it is because this mechanism, so ancient, so stereotyped, so unacceptable for a part of men, is not being undermined, also because the State does not help us enough. I read with great gruesome that the last woman killed in Lazio a few days ago had begun to have disagreements with her husband after the death of her disabled son. That man probably held her responsible for the fact that you had procreated a disabled child, responsible for the fact that that child was dead. Perhaps, if there had been a social network of help; perhaps, if there had been a place: maybe, maybe, maybe. Let me turn to one final point, because I know that time is not much longer. If it is true that we no longer want to hear about quotas, we do not want to hear about merit anymore. The merit, in fact, has entered into the political debate as a requirement to refer to a place on the list or to an appointment, only and exclusively since women began to demand equal representation, equal dignity and presence on the lists. The merit up to now did not exist, because no one had asked the question whether our many and very good colleagues, always appointed, always to the Government, with seats on the boards of directors, in the union colleges, and who more has put them, were there on merit. I don't want to make a list and I don't want to say bad things, but I invite you to just scroll through the appointments of the last governments to realize that a lot of men weren't even graduates, they weren't there on merit, but maybe they were there because they were the treasurers of something or someone, and so on. I shall close, Madam President, by setting out two final concepts. The first is the following. I believe that each of us has emphasized, with the polyhedricity of our many interventions, that more women in politics means more measures in favour of women and a policy that helps all women who are outside the institutions and through this door. For this reason, the attempt we make on European law and what we will certainly (and I repeat, of course) do on Italicum will break those mechanisms that are still too closed, which must give women the opportunity to apply in eligible positions. If we continue to talk about duets, (two men, two women, alternated) without the alternation of the leaders, we will have impressed on Italicum too. Madam President, I should like to end by reminding all of you of a phrase by Colette which, like Pirandello's words, lends itself to more interpretations. Colette said that a woman who thinks she's smart claims the same rights as men and that an intelligent woman renounces it. I don't give up. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u38	Postponement The continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u39	I communicate that there is a delegation from the French Senate, represented by vice presidents, Senators Didier Guillaume and Jean Claude Carle, to whom we address our warm greeting and welcome to our Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u42	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to draw attention to some of the many daily violations in our country, which generate, on the one hand, an increased risk of pathologies in patients and an increase in health costs and, on the other hand, professional responsibilities that are difficult to manage, even with personal repercussions. The legislation on protection against the dangers of ionizing radiation for medical exposure, governed by Legislative Decree No 187 of 2000, despite the fact that only fourteen years have passed since its publication, is still not fully and correctly applied. The provisions of the lex artis defined by the radiological medical act are also unnoticed. The 5 Star Movement has already highlighted the problem, with an interview discussed in the Regional Council of Lombardy and in a question submitted to the Chamber of Deputies Unfortunately these speeches have not yet been heard and effective. I would also like to pay attention to non-compliance with the rules governing the rest of health care staff, which, in addition to being of serious damage to health, negatively affects private life and produces inadequate (and therefore dangerous) care for patients. I would point out that the European Commission has already initiated infringement proceedings against Italy, yet again. In addition to harming the mockery, we will have to pay for not enjoying our rights despite our law regulates them in detail. Minister Lorenzin, do we want to implement this law? Do we want to proceed with controls and sanctions, if anything, by cancelling accreditation to facilities that fail to comply with these provisions and by removing the directors-general of health companies from their post? I conclude by pointing out that these and other serious violations have long been brought to the attention of a hospital doctor who has since been the victim of persecutory acts aimed at annihilating his voice and thus covering up the serious failures I mentioned earlier. This is why next Saturday some spokesmen of the 5 Star Movement, together with the citizens, will participate in a agora in Lecco, to support this doctor and fight together the absurd way of operating these administrations, trusting at the same time in the speed of investigations by the prosecutor to finally get to the truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u43	I would like to thank Senator Pizzetti, State Secretary for Relations with Parliament, who has remained in the Chamber to hear the speeches at the end of the session, which are generally addressed to the Government but, in the absence of the Government, often fall into the void. So let's thank Senator Pizzetti who changed a negative practice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u46	AIROLA (M5S). Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have touched on the desperate state situation. There is a state that tries to fight the Mafia and fight for justice; it is what for us citizens represents the pm Antonino Di Matteo, along obviously with all the officials of the Police Forces, to which we have expressed our support today and which is investigating what I would call the darkest page in the history of our Republic, the State-Mafia negotiation. For this reason he was sentenced to death by Totò Riina and has undergone disciplinary proceedings by the same state he defends. Likewise, today's news is that the former Minister Chancellors is being investigated for false statements to the PMs about the phone calls made with Antonino Ligresti, brother of Don Salvatore; the Ligresti friend of all, politicians, bankers, businessmen, from the center-right to the center-left, to whom the former Guardasigilli has made herself available. A very serious act for which we called for distrust and that Renzi (according to him) would also vote, but that then the PD saved. Letta gloated for what she considered a victory and for which she became a human shield. D'Alema had to declare: "Renzi seemed to want to overthrow the world. Now wrap it up and take it home. Instead, they defended a minister who, in addition to abusing his role, had made himself available to a family with a fearful pedigree, now also seems to have lied to the judges. This is the beautiful country in which everyone does his own business in our face and in the law; this is the country where a pm fighting against the mafia puts itself in the sedan and a former Minister of Justice, who affectionately makes himself available to the Ligrists, is saved. According to his lawyers, he's gonna get away with it this time. We are not here and today, while in this House we ask you why you have not removed the Chancellors who did not even ask the Ligresti family what happened to Paolo Ligresti, who was still fugitive abroad today, but rather worked hard for them, we show the indignation for the treatment suffered by a PM who has as its sole fault the pursuit of truth with dedication and sense of duty and to whom we, the only political force, have strongly reaffirmed solidarity and support. This beautiful country will be beautiful only when ministers will have as friends citizens, the Presidents will no longer be Napolitano and the PMs, free to investigate the mobsters and their accomplices, will be really free to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-207.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
