ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 19 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u4	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u8	I inform you that on 24 June 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, the Minister of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea and the Minister of Economic Development: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the agricultural sector, environmental protection and energy efficiency of school and university buildings, the revitalization and development of enterprises, the reduction of costs on electricity tariffs, as well as for the immediate definition of compliances deriving from European legislation (1541).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1518, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, on the basis of the mandate received from the 13th Environmental and territorial commission, which I thank for the collaboration, I am proposing to the Assembly the approval of the measure under consideration which brings, as has been mentioned, urgent measures in favour of the populations of Emilia-Romagna affected by the earthquake in May 2012 and, more recently, by the serious weather disasters such as the trumpet and the flood. The positive work carried out in the Environment Commission and then in the Chamber of Deputies, with a climate of constructive and cooperative dialogue between all the parliamentary groups, has enabled, on the one hand, to carry out the examination of the measure quickly and, on the other hand, to improve the text proposed by the Government on several points and, on the other hand, that the 13th Commission proposes to the House unchanged. It is a decree that follows Decree-Law No. 4, with which a first response to the flood emergency of January 17-19 (a few months ago) was given in a very short time and that today allows to implement important and urgent interventions of hydraulic safety in the affected territory to ensure a full operation of the hydraulic infrastructure before the next autumn season, as well as the restoration of further public, social, health, religious, sports and historical-artistic interest damaged precisely by the flood of January 2014 and the air trumpets of May 3rd 2013 and April 30th 2014. This decree returns, in parallel with the measures for the populations of Emilia-Romagna and Modena in particular, full operation for the current year to the National Emergency Fund, provided for by law n. 225 of 1992, in the field of civil protection, laying down the conditions to give a prompt response to the emergency situations that have affected in recent periods all the areas of our country that are in condition to present today reports on damages and needs. I do not want to dwell here on the individual provisions contained in the measure, referring to the report by the 13th But I think it is important to start by describing the specific and timely context that has created it. It is important to understand this because the alluvial event of 19 January last, followed by the air trumpet of 30 April, arrived after the earthquake of May 2012 - of which this House has already discussed and of which I will speak later - and another air trumpet on 3 May 2013, still in the same part of the Emilian territory, constituting in fact a single national level and, therefore, requiring extraordinary and unique measures to allow businesses and citizens to restart, once again. Yeah, one more time. There are strong lands that will benefit from the provisions contained in this decree-law; strong lands, as the title of a photographic book and testimonies on the flood of 19 January last, presented a few days ago, as a tool to support reconstruction restart projects, which in October we will present together with colleagues of the House with an original documentary film. Yes, because that January 19, due to the break of the right bank of the river Secchia, not far from the city of Modena, whose direct causes are being investigated, is achieved a violent and devastating spill of 18 million cubic meters of water, which first invested the surrounding countryside and a few hours after the neighboring centers downstream of the capital, namely Bastille and Bomporto, as well as fractions of the city of Modena, for a total front of more than 20 kilometers. As mentioned, the area affected by the serious flood disaster is coinciding with part of the 2012 seismic crater, already hard hit and tested by those events. A condition of those same subjects who, while they were rising up after the shock immediately after the 2012 earthquake, were brought back to their knees by a sudden event with very significant dimensions: hundreds of people evacuated, 1,500 assisted in the first reception centers set up in Bastille and Bomporto, 800 in the centers of the eight neighbouring municipalities, while thousands of citizens proceeded to autonomous accommodation. 1,000 volunteers engaged in relief and assistance to the population; 176 firefighters with 95 vehicles carried out 764 rescue operations and 907 rescues of people; 200 military of the Military Academy activated by the prefecture of Modena; dozens of municipal, provincial and regional administrators involved from the first minute and still involved in giving adequate responses to citizens and businesses. 10,000 hectares of submerged land (of which 2,500 are valuable agricultural land), 1,800 damaged enterprises; 2,465 reports of damages to private individuals, more than 300 farms in a territory full of productions of greater value than local and regional agriculture. Of the injured companies, 100 were already relocated from the most affected area of the seismic crater, with about 5,000 employees involved. After the immediate declaration of state of emergency, the Region presented a timely report; the Letta Government recognized the specificity of the situation compared to other alluvial events, then supporting it with a first allocation of resources. This action was followed by the estimated damage, which involved municipalities, citizens and businesses until 28 February: about 200 million damage to homes and businesses and 131 million resources needed to intervene in the repair of public infrastructure and improve the safety of the hydraulic hub in Modena. In view of these numbers, the measure we are discussing is able to make available some important answers that follow, as mentioned, those already contained in Decree-Law No. 4. It is a text that, with the significant changes introduced to the House, touched on and answered important issues, including the one aimed at finalising the scope of the decree, the better definition and demarcation of the powers of the Delegated Commissioner and the resources made available to him, including the obligation to report annually to Parliament on the activities carried out and the resources used. The reference is, in particular, to those relating to the introduction of benefits for citizens and businesses affected by calamitous events and those relating to the suspension of payments of soft loans. Concrete actions and measures to respond, not only to citizens and businesses of flooded municipalities, but also to further improve measures to respond to the needs of the territories affected by the 2012 earthquake. In particular, I would like to mention for all the content of paragraph 9-b of Article 1, also included, precisely, in the course of the examination to the Chamber, which allows once and for all the subjects who have contracted the soft loans to provide for the payment of the taxes, contributions and suspended premiums due from 1 December 2012 to 15 November 2013, the possibility to request the suspension of the payment due for the repayment of the debt by share capital for a period not exceeding twelve months. This is also a very significant improvement in relation to the original text of the decree-law, which does not collect what is already contained in other measures and agendas proposed together with other colleagues both here and in the Chamber of Deputies, as regards the duration of the suspension, but which nevertheless gives a fair recognition to families, businesses, traders, professionals affected by the earthquake that - I would like to remind you - have in fact never stopped paying taxes on the State. It is precisely the necessity to give immediate course to this measure, due to expire next 30 June, which has made necessary a short and without modifications here in the Senate; path that however, through the agendas approved in the Commission, has been able to place at the center of the debate and also of the confrontation with the Government themes that the House has not found the right attention and willingness to be hired and that we will try to insert in the next legislative measures, also because, two years away from the earthquake, we can say, also on the basis of data reported online thanks to a path of transparency chosen from the beginning from the Emilia-Romagna Region, that seven families out of ten have returned home, the workers still in fund integration are 215 regarding the 40,000 initials, 595,000 tons of rubble have been removed, there has been the opening of 1,764 yards, of which 1,562 already closed. Overall, more than 4 billion euros were committed to the reconstruction of the territories and the recovery and recovery of the economy, out of the 6 initially planned and allocated by Decree-Law No. 74 of 2012. It is clear that the reconstruction is today in the middle of the operational phase and that there are still a number of problems to be solved, to which only partially with this decree-law we try to respond. I am thinking of the need for historical centres to be re-established with specific and specific measures towards micro-enterprises, commercial and non-commercial, through the establishment of urban free zones located in the former red zones identified during the emergency phase in some of the earthquake-stricken municipalities; I am thinking of staffing and regulations for local authorities engaged in the crater area in order to allow them to continue, even for longer, the work begun without being equal to the provisions relating to municipalities that these misfortunes have not suffered. On these issues we will have the opportunity to return to consideration of the amendments and agendas, but in conclusion I would like to look at some of the issues which are the distinctive feature and specificity of this decree-law, starting from the scope of application: the territories. In this sense, paragraph 1 of Article 1 defines the territorial scope of application of the whole of the measures aimed at ensuring the continuity of the reconstruction activity and to coordinate it with the interventions necessary for the reconstruction itself, assistance to the population and, indeed, economic recovery of the territories. The rule states, in fact, that these measures apply also to the municipalities of Emilia that have been affected by the last alluvial events of 17-19 January 2014 and not only, because unfortunately, while the decree that concerned the trumpet of 2013, has happened the air trumpet of 2014. The benefits provided by these measures have therefore also been extended to the municipalities of the province of Modena, including some hamlets of the city of Modena itself that had not been included. An important fact and that is already representing the difference from the previous experience of the post earthquake concerns the powers of the Delegated Commissioner, who, thanks to paragraph 3 of the same article, will be able to avail, for the activity of reconstruction, as well as the administration of the Emilia-Romagna Region, also of the local administrations and of the staff hired through the flexible employment contracts following the emergency post earthquake of 2012, without remaining - this is important - that the use of workers or of the conventions in existence with some bodies must obviously take place within the limits of the resources already available for this purpose, therefore without any additional financial burden and possibly, just extending the contractual relationships in existence. In this case too, the amendment made to the House is important and positive, since it allows the Commissioner to continue to use all those structures and people to give adequate and timely answers: it is about 2,400 professionals working in the construction and 1,600 companies performing works, also trying to cope with all the building practices in the municipal offices and the increase in the level of complexity and responsibility related to their completion. On this issue I signal to the Government and the House a contradiction that should soon be overcome, as a consequence of the provisions of Article 9 of Decree-Law No 66, recently approved, as regards the obligation for municipalities not provincial capital to resort to a single contracting station. This obligation, which the municipalities are expected to fulfil as early as 1 July, would in fact prevent the municipalities affected by the earthquake and flood from continuing in the reconstruction work already implemented with autonomous technical structures, designed to cope with the enormous amount of work obviously superior to the ordinary. Finally, as regards the provisions contained in paragraph 5 of Article 1 of this decree-law, I recall that they allow the President of the Region, in his capacity as Delegated Commissioner, to allocate a total of 210 million euros for the years 2014 and 2015. This amount has three main purposes: the first is that of the refreshment of the damages suffered by the private subjects because, precisely, of the alluvial events and the successive trumpets of air; the second is that of the realization of the most urgent interventions connected to the program of hydraulic safety of the territories connected to the rivers that have generated the flood; the third, finally, is that of the realization of the interventions indispensable for the resumption of the economic activities and of the normal conditions of life and work, including the contributions for the self-organization of the families whose main dwelling has been declared unattainable, as well as the contributions for the restoration of important public works. It is not about additional resources - I want to reiterate - from the State, but to rely exclusively on the resources of the special accounting established for the reconstruction of the earthquake 2012 with decree-law n. 74 of that year and registered to the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region. So we're talking about financial items that are in the special accounting budget of the Emilia-Romagna Region. Then there are the benefits for agricultural enterprises that fall within the territories of the municipalities affected by these events, which go beyond the recognition of material damage, but which are related to the definitive damage to total production, because entire crops have been completely devastated. Paragraph 6 gives the Commissioner with the task of identifying the possible projects and the resources necessary for their financing for extraordinary maintenance and the prevention of hydrogeological failure, with particular attention to the fact that priority actions are those of hydraulic safety and that they must of course be in line with the objectives of the European directives and the flood directive. As regards paragraph 7 of Article 1, I should like to point out very quickly that it refers to specific measures by the Delegated Commissioner: the determination, on the basis of the actual damage, of priorities, modalities and percentages within which contributions may be granted for the resumption of economic activities and normal living conditions. Another content to be considered very important is the exclusion from taxable income of contributions, compensations and compensations, which, even this, was not clear, and that an agenda accepted as a recommendation by the Government in 13a. The Commission also proposes the breakdown of the Stability Pact for local authorities. With regard to the National Emergency Fund, this is another fundamental chapter of the entire decree, aimed at ensuring the operation of the Fund for all national emergencies. Thanks to the commitment of the Government and colleagues to the House, the complete financing of all the emergencies that occurred in 2014, covering different regions of our country, thus responding to the indisputable needs of many communities. In particular, it has been foreseen that the Fund for national emergencies will also contribute unused resources from the Fund for reconstruction and security in the territories affected by previous emerging events established by Article 1, paragraph 346, of the Law of Stability for 2014. In addition, paragraph 1-b has been inserted, which allocates to the Fund for national emergencies a total of 100 million euros. Moreover, paragraph 1-d has been inserted, which allows the use of the sums entered in the budgets of the Regions coming from the ascertainment of the economies deriving from the complete implementation of the plans of urgent interventions connected with calamitous events occurred until the year 2002. So, in fact, that money that has not been spent for various reasons for all these calamities can be re-used on extraordinary events. Finally, with regard to the national alert system, the decree-law contains a further provision, in my opinion very significant, aimed at increasing the overall level of efficiency and operation of the national civil protection system. This standard ensures that adequate resources - EUR 6 million per year - are allocated to activities related to the management, maintenance and development of ground hydrometeorological observation networks and radar network used by regional functional centres operating in the national alert system, which is - I would like to reiterate - an integral, if not fundamental, part of the national civil protection system. This is another proof of the importance of this measure not only for the people of Emilia-Romagna and Modena, but for the whole country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u11	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u12	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Undersecretary, we are addressing this morning, at second reading, the measure which concerns further measures in favour of the populations of Emilia-Romagna affected by the May 2012 earthquake and subsequent natural disasters (the May 2013 air trumpet and the January 2014 flood). The rapporteur, whom I thank for his work, has now listed the measure of a serious disaster. The measure also contains rules to ensure the operation of the National Emergency Fund for 2014. With this measure we put in field important financings dedicated to three main objects: the first is the compensation of the damages suffered by the private subjects because of the flood events of January 2014 and the trumpets of air; then the realization of the most urgent interventions provided for by the program of hydraulic safety of the territories connected to the rivers that have generated these floods; finally, the realization of the necessary interventions for the resumption of economic activities and the normal living and working conditions: are included, in fact, the contributions to the families for the interventions on the main houses, if declared inactive, and the contributions for the restoration of important public works, as well as useful norms of taxation and on the budgets of the local authorities indispensable to the populations of those territories. We then have a better definition of the powers of the Commissioner, the President of the Emilia-Romagna Errani Region, who has certified a cost of reconstruction equal to the estimated cost. So let us also begin to identify a method, which is useful for a school of good emergency reconstruction in cases of natural disasters. The rapporteur spoke of strong lands capable of reacting and reconstructing well that are an example. We then have the National Emergency Fund, a very important chapter. Here we assure the operation of this Fund, which today is able to finance all the emergencies that occurred in 2014 and that affect different regions of our country, thus giving an answer to the more than legitimate requests of many communities. However, some territories remain outside. I want to remember one of them all: Sardinia. In this regard, I would like to join in the request of those communities, expressed well by the requests of my Sardinian colleagues: I think that this vacuum must be filled as soon as possible. Finally, on the prevention front, I would like to mention the intervention on the national alert system, which wants to increase the level of efficiency and operation of the national civil protection system. In fact, 6 million euros are allocated annually to the management, maintenance and development of hydrometeorological observation networks on the ground and of the radar network used on the territory by the national alert system, which is an important part of the national civil protection system. It has increased over time the awareness that to our territory and to our country we have or done too much (when we have exaggerated in building, cementing, using and abusing the soil) or too little (when instead we have abandoned agriculture, the care of the wood, the mountain, the cleaning of the watercourses and the necessary maintenance of the territory). Today we are committed to resume a way of acting that must become a system: investments for reconstruction, good investment policies and, above all, so much prevention for the protection of the territory from hydrogeological failure. To these pillars I would like to add two that all the territories affected by disasters recognize as additional great values: those of solidarity and volunteering. These are values to be stressed and rewarded, but they cannot remain alone in taking care of emergency situations: it has happened in some cases and must not happen again. I made this reference to the value of solidarity because I wanted to remember a particular moment that linked my land, the low Piedmont and the province of Cuneo, to the Emilian areas affected by the earthquake and subsequent disasters. Since yesterday the football fan entered this Chamber in some way, today I am giving myself a sporty passage and a small distraction not far from the theme: in these days, Cuneo closes an important sporting experience of the Serie A championship of the male volleyball, because the team BRE Banca Lannotti Cuneo will no longer play in the Italian Championship of male volleyball, not for lack of popular passion, but for not having found a new passion of capital interest. Yet it is a team that has always been accompanied by an organized fan company, committed to combining passion and fair play, which, despite a historical duel, raw and without discounts, with the fans of the Modena volleyball, in the aftermath of the 2012 earthquake managed to organize initiatives of solidarity widespread in our territory, in support of the work of the production companies of Parmesan damaged by the calamity. It is a typhus we like, this, generous and capable of supporting our team and, in need, of interpreting solidarity well, indeed, very well. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u13	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u14	Mr President, I shall begin with a positive remark on the overall nature of this decree, which, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, has the uniform nature that we have so many times requested, since we find everything that is needed for the objective for which it has been declared and published. This also applies to the urgent nature, even if the earthquake is from 2012 and certainly something has been done, but with this measure it is faced with a series of needs of the territories involved. This also allows us to add the urgency of the latest natural disasters (I refer to the air trumpet of May 2013 and the next one of April 2014, as well as to the flood of January 2014). This constructive dialogue, mentioned by the rapporteur, I believe is proof, proof that, where our Constitution is respected, the whole legislative process also takes on its own organicity and harmony. The measure is urgent and homogeneous, it is regularly discussed and there is an agreement on it, which naturally brings with it a number of positive aspects, which I shall quote and which have already been mentioned by the rapporteur, but also derogations and delegations, which frankly always inspire us a little 'of fear and fear, even if this here is tempered by the explicit obligation of traceability for dedicated current accounts. It is clear that it will be up to all communities here to be active, to watch and to make their presence felt. I will not go into detail here, to remember how many times we see situations where we are faced with impressive scaffoldings of bad use of public money, at best, or even appropriation, at worst. In this regard, as has been pointed out, the use of the Network to publicly account for the earthquake accounts is welcome. The site "www.openreconstruction.it" must undoubtedly be implemented and updated, and I hope it can contain, in addition to the description of the projects and the quantification of donations in general terms, also all the documentation necessary to verify the progress of the reconstruction. It is a site linked to others, such as www.donazionisisma.it (www.donazionisisma.it) of the Region, which is still mainly informative on general data, which I hope will translate into more precise information. This is also done with a series of links, as for the concert "www.italovesemilia.it". For the truth, at the crossroads following my research, I have observed some differences in data between the various documents: surely there will be an explanation, but I reserve the right to study and deepen the matter better. Well in the decree also the measures relating to the suspension of the payments relating to the loans for the destroyed and inactible buildings, although in part late because in the meantime the previous installments have been demanded and regularly paid. The exclusion of reconstruction expenditure from the Stability Pact is also a good thing. I would like to say that this is not the case. If it makes sense to be virtuous in spending, it has it precisely in a forecast perspective. This must be the model. If I save money, I also do it to shelter myself in the face of the unexpected. This is the feeling of this strong, productive and wise people who populate my region. As the rapporteur has said, we are not talking about additional resources and we are talking about a territory that has never failed its contribution to the national economy and which deserves to be helped and supported immediately. Compared with the improvements made in the House of Deputies, there is a lack of the establishment of the free zone, which is proposed, as the rapporteur said, in the form of an agenda. This agenda is widely shared, and this too is a sign that in order to arrive at a complete regulation our country may need subsequent steps. The attention and availability, which obviously was not possible to give to the House, can now be contemplated, in this second reading. We hope that they will be translated into a non-formal, but serious, effective, constructive and immediate commitment. I have two more comments. The first concerns the care and protection of the historical heritage according to the principle of where it was and how it was. I ask all those who make these decisions to listen to citizens and art historians. I recently visited Mirandola, whose historical heritage is still devastated. Mirandola is a city where, several years ago, I went to visit the library and the archive; a heritage that is a sign of a memory and a culture rooted and strong that contribute not in an accessory way, but in a structural and fundamental way to the creation of that culture that we see in Emilia and that all Italy loves. Yes, he loves her and is available. However, this culture has specific reasons and, then, cultural heritage cannot be the last of the thoughts. It is the symbol of the history of a region and must be rebuilt as it was, it must allow the populations to keep their roots strong. The second point concerns the care and protection of the territory. My colleague, Mrs Manassero, mentioned the hydrogeological breakdown. It is now clear, very clear: we have heard and repeated that due to the hydrogeological failure, urgency has actually been too long become ordinary administration, while the bureaucratic machine does not know how to find the ways to be, at the same time, fast, efficient, but also correct and in legality. I'm just going to give you a little example. The money collected with special events is actually available immediately. The money that is received and collected when tickets are detached is real money. In December 2012 at Madison Square Garden, a concert of great artists, of the level of Bruce Springsteen, made resources available and immediately expendable to deal with the damage of Hurricane Sandy. It may have also brought luck to the name of the collection fund, Robin Hood. The care of the environment is the care of legality, it is the care of its own history and it is also the best investment for the future. An environment in which we are concerned about the state of health of our land, of agriculture, of the woods; an environment in which we do not operate even in a daring way with drills and other tools, which may perhaps give the impression of obtaining immediate advantages, but could compromise the stability of the soil itself from the aquifers. Of course, it is said that the links between fracking operations and seismic activity are not proven. They're not proven, but neither is the opposite. I then ask those of us who would face the risk of a situation of fragility of their own enterprise, of their own family and of their own life. Yesterday the President-in-Office said that energy is not just a question of products, hydrocarbons; he said that energy is also a question of culture and research. Good. I really hope that this will be translated into a different perspective: a perspective in which the search for energy is no longer done at the expense of the environment, but with the listening of the citizens and the guarantee that the environment is not plundered, but becomes an ally. Finally, I would like to remind you of the following. The citizens of our areas have opposed drilling, and the Emilia-Romagna Region has had to accept the suspension of concessions to Hunt Oil, listened to the citizens (because the citizens are the first who have at heart the defense of the place where they live). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u15	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on this act with particular force to highlight a highly qualifying and highly awaited point: the full operation, for the current year, of the National Emergency Fund, provided for by Law No 225 of 24 February 1992 on civil protection. The refinancing of the National Emergency Fund with €100 million for the current year is an essential cover for the latest emergencies that Civil Protection has already recognised. When dealing with emergencies, however, we must all remember that interventions should be immediate, in the original spirit of Law No 225. For this reason, I have so far considered very questionable the zeroing of the Fund itself operated for a long time, which has not allowed, to date, to respond positively to the pressing and objective demands of so many regions. Seven regions are today waiting for the statement of the state of emergency by the Council of Ministers: Lazio, Puglia, Calabria, Umbria, Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna and Marche. I am thinking of the many citizens who, from January to May of this year, have often seen their property, their homes, their work and their lives hit irreversibly. I think of the victims, first of all, and also of the minute work: in the oven that cannot reopen, the laundry whose machines are not able to restart, the hotel hit at the opening of the season, the nursing home that sees destroyed in a moment all the diagnostic machines for radiological investigations, from the CT, to the magnetic resonance. I am thinking of the city of Senigallia and the flood of 3 May last, to represent emblematically, together, the inconveniences and despair produced in all places. I am also thinking of the important work of coordination and rapid restoration by the mayors, the Provinces and the Departments of Civil Protection of the Regions. I am also thinking of the many volunteers who have been able to demonstrate that solidarity and sharing are not just words. For this reason, I have promoted two letters to President Renzi, who have been signed by colleagues from all the groups of all the realities involved. We knew, however, that the essential condition for the Council of Ministers to grant the emergency declaration for our territories was that there should be financial cover and that the Fund should be refinanced. That is why I recognise the very serious commitment of President Renzi, the Government and Parliament all, to finally arrive at this refinancing, which will now allow - I hope the next Council of Ministers, I hope Friday - to grant the state of emergency to our regions, which will thus finally see financed those resolutions, which have not yet been adopted, for which the investigation has been completed. Some considerations remain not secondary: first of all, the hope that despite the economic crisis (any economic crisis) no one thinks anymore of zeroing the Emergency Fund in such a fragile Italy with regard to the hydrogeological and not only tissue. Of course, we really need a framework law to rearrange civil protection by which to share the great responsibilities at the different levels of government of the territory, putting the citizen at the centre. For this reason, too, Senator Valentini and I presented bill No. 1001 (Provisions to promote the effective integration of the civil protection system between State, Region and local authorities and the establishment of a Charter of Rights for citizens affected by disasters). We hope that this bill will, together with the work of other colleagues, be a further contribution to common reflections on emergency management and prevention. I am convinced, in fact, that the role of Parliament and the Senate will thus remain central, allowing, once again, that relationship between citizens, territory and institutions that many of us, in particular myself, consider essential for democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the decree-law before us, which deals with the emerging situation in Emilia-Romagna, the Group of the North League and Autonomous League is certainly in favour. This decree-law finally sets out measures to help the affected territories, in a very serious and hard way, since the 2012 earthquake, in which other environmental disasters occurred, from floods to last year's air trumpet. It is therefore a decree that authorizes the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region, as Delegate Commissioner, to prepare the necessary interventions to give refreshment to the affected populations, to the enterprises and in general to the productive and agri-food economic sector that is suffering from the serious damage suffered by the structures, buildings and instruments. It therefore also addresses the local authorities and municipalities involved in these events so that they can restore buildings in the various territories. So this is certainly an urgent measure which we welcome. However, we cannot fail to underline the fact that for the umpteenth time the Government finds itself having to issue - even with some guilty delay, I say it to the Undersecretary present - an emergency measure when, instead, if they had been prepared in due time, in the appropriate time, the necessary, appropriate, ordinary measures that are available would have already been given real help to the affected territories and the populations involved and would have already been favored the economic recovery. Instead, as always, you arrive to buffer an emergency situation, with instruments that are still late. Among other things, we also pointed out in the Commission, where the Undersecretary was present, who today is in the Chamber listening to the discussion that from the beehive of the recipients of this decree remain excluded other territories that were nevertheless hit hard by the earthquake of 2012, which certainly has mostly affected the Emilia-Romagna region, but which nevertheless extended to touch Veneto with the province of Rovigo and Lombardy with the province of Mantua. These territories, however, were excluded from the target group to which the resources allocated to help families and businesses were directed. In addition to this, unfortunately, there are repeated situations of environmental emergency that often become disasters, disasters that are chased, to which are also added the alluvial events that had affected the territory of Veneto in many other provinces, in Padua, Vicentino, Trevigiano and also the territories of the Lombardy Region. It was stressed in the Commission that sufficient resources have not yet been allocated for the recovery of these affected populations and that this has not been done as quickly as possible. This denotes a truly embarrassing situation of unequal treatment between territories, which should not occur in our country. It is also necessary to think almost of a underlying political reason, because the leadership of the Lombardy Region is entrusted to a governor who probably belongs to a certain political color, but I would not like to make excuses, at this moment, in the face of situations of this type. However, it is clear that the Veneto and Lombardy regions have not been given answers in just as fast times. I would like to stress that, in addition to that, we must finally put our hands on another issue. Unfortunately, we continue to face situations of this kind, which are really alarming and disturbing. We are thinking not only of the economic damage to the productive sector and to businesses, and we are not just thinking of the instrumental damage, therefore the municipalities involved and the territories that are really in a very uncomfortable situation for these disasters, but we also think that human lives are often lost. It is not possible that, even today, we are faced with a government that always intervenes and only to buffer, without having the ability to plan structural and weighted interventions, without putting in the field of longer-term political strategies that finally go to solve the problem, for example, of the hydrogeological structure, an old issue that in our country is not addressed. In the Commission, the reference colleagues in the territory of the region of Sardinia have also noted this. We in Veneto, also with amending activities carried out together with the Group's colleagues in all the Commissions with respect to all useful measures, stressed the need to pay attention to these problems, and equally it was done for the territory of the Lombardy region. Instead, every time we see that we put patches on the holes that continue to create, without ever solving problems in a structural way. The unequal treatment in this decree-law is evident. We, faced with an emerging situation, say: well come, it is absolutely necessary to give a response to companies, but we believe that the same powers of derogation that have been conferred on the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region as Delegated Commissioner in order to provide for the restoration of the economic situation and the refreshment of the people involved must also be recognized for the other parts of the territory. We therefore welcome the statement made by the Undersecretary in the Commission in relation to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which extends the allocation of the National Fund for Environmental Emergencys, allocating to it those resources which had already been allocated, put in availability and not used for previous events. That is our wish. We hope that these resources will really be used, also to finally give answers to those territories that have been neglected so far. I repeat, alluvial events have also happened in other parts, but that is not only the problem. I am also thinking of the mountainous territories of the regions of the North, which are always left to themselves and which never have a return in terms of services compared to taxes. Every year, for example in the province of Belluno, situations of enormous disaster occur because of the abundant snowfalls with great discomfort for economic activity and for families but those territories are always forgotten and abandoned to themselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is not conceivable that, in this country, territories that so much pay (the Emilia-Romagna pays 34 billion euros per year of taxes, the Veneto has 21 billion residues active, but I could also make the example of Lombardy), they never see how much they would have in terms of services. In addition, I repeat that there can be no difference in treatment even when this type of measures are being prepared in relation to other areas of the territory. So this is a good measure and it is good to enlarge the Fund. We hope and hope that those resources will actually be allocated to those territories. But we really need to do a lot more, putting structural political strategies in place - as I said at the beginning - which help to prevent the occurrence of these phenomena, because it is the only way to avoid finding ourselves every time in the face of these situations, which are also embarrassing when, in view of the few resources available, we must try to understand which populations have more right than others. We therefore ask the Government for a precise commitment, so that certain obstacles are finally overcome and all territories are answered to the same extent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u18	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u19	Mr President, I think that some consideration needs to be given to this measure. The first is that this is yet another measure that intervenes, with the partial perspective of a territory and an event, to manage an initiative of the State that instead should be regulated in a general way and I believe also in an abstract way (i.e. not related to this or to that situation). This in order to assure the whole country the right refreshment for the damages that all the national territory suffers when an event of calamitous nature happens as those object of the intervention. So what is missing is a framework law that regulates the interventions, that identifies the subjects that must put them in place, that involves the local administrations in a correct way, that uses in a fair way the funds available to the budget of the State and that, above all, makes a policy of ordinary maintenance of the territory and prevention of events or, better, of the consequences connected to the calamitous events. So what's the other game? The other game is in the way we intervene on the breakdown of our territory. This is a decadent country. We see this in all things, even from the way we are dealing with the issue of constitutional reforms. This is a country in decline, not only because football Italy has been eliminated from the current world championships, but because of how we approach the problems we face, in a devastating economic crisis, where gross domestic product systematically collapses again and where the only positive trait is the statements that are spread by a media system that is quite complicit in the responsibilities, not only political, that instead there are for the state of devastation in which our country pours. I don't know what's gonna happen in the fall. Continuing so, that is, pretending nothing, pretending not to see that not even the things that should work work, when in autumn we will find again all the problems of the resumption of activity, in an economically much more difficult condition than what we are living today, well, I think the contradictions will come out, also on other issues. When we discussed the law of stability, we conducted an open battle on the subject of the hydrogeological failure of our country and the need to invest in order to avoid at the root that damage such as those that are the subject of this measure is caused. We've been outnumbered, and I want to tell everyone. I want to tell those who are on the right-wing opposition front, but also those who are on the government side. We have been put in a minority and even treated with some annoyance. After that, the events took place that, even while we were discussing the law of stability, recalled the urgency of organic interventions against the hydrogeological failure of our country. And the 20 deaths of the story of last November in Sardinia are mourning that this Parliament and the Government have removed. My colleague from the League is right to recall the funds that are allocated to the most robust regions from the economic and political point of view of this country. I just want to remind you that we, with great shyness and also with great politeness, have placed some issues concerning Sardinia, identifying together a privileged path on the flood in Sardinia (the one of the decision-making seat in the Budget Committee) and an agreement between all the Groups and all the political forces. This is so that that measure, which contained far less costly and far less significant measures than those envisaged in the one under discussion today, would be channeled for swift approval. The result of this affair is that that measure is bogged down in the House - the one you want to save - in the Budget Committee, and it is not examined, months and months apart, so betraying the political agreement that had been reached here, even with the position taken by the President of the Senate. Is there a lack of respect for a Member of Parliament? Is there a lack of respect for a House, a High House Commission? No. There is a lack of respect for that community that has suffered mourning, that has seen its territory devastated and that is impaled, marginalized, discriminated against and treated as the poor relative to whom, if anything, a loaf of bread is given. This affects the dignity of the communities, the dignity of our peoples. And it is not a good example: indeed, it is a bad example of how we can see the world coming. The main reform to do in this country is that we are all the same! And it is a reform that is never done, because there are those who are the most equal. And by that I mean that I will still vote for this measure and I will also defend it. I defend it because there is a community of people and citizens who have the right to have an answer. Let's make sure everyone has it. The Government, which makes constitutional reforms over the course of days, is not able to pass a draft law that concerns the flood in Sardinia last November in a few weeks? I hope so. As I hope, Mr President, that a framework law will be drawn up, because we must not hang on to emergencies that are announced from time to time, but we must act in an organic way. I hope, moreover, that finally a plan of maintenance of the territory that contrasts the hydrogeological failure, because we need this, also in order to save the financial resources of the State. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, Misto-ILC and Senator Carraro Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the arrival in this House of the measure that we are about to convert represents the achievement of an objective on which we have paid our attention since the day following the serious seismic event that hit the populations of Emilia-Romagna in May 2012, which until the beginning of June have experienced terrible days and which today can finally see substantial glimmers of recovery. We have witnessed our closeness to those populations since our arrival in Parliament, when we decided to allocate the unused portion of the donations received during our campaign for politics to the city of Mirandola, which was the most affected by the earthquake: a sum of about 420,000 euros that just a year ago we handed over to the mayor and to the Councillors of Mirandola to dedicate it to the reconstruction of a gym in the school of the hamlet of Quarantoli. Well, today, with the approval of this decree we can give a further push to our action and see recognized what already in the House has been described by our colleagues as a constructive battle that has broken into a decree that will improve (and we are sure) the lives of thousands of people affected by the earthquake and floods in Emilia. With the passage to the Chamber, in fact, on which we voted positive, in the process of conversion into law of the so-called flood decree, we managed to achieve important results, although still much remains to be done to bring back to normal those territories affected not only by the earthquake in 2012, but also by the strong floods that last winter affected those same areas. Many important objectives have already been achieved with the excellent work carried out so far and I mention some of them: first of all, loans for inactible houses are suspended at least until 31 December 2015, at no extra cost, and the higher accrued interest will be tax credit for the earthquake. It seems to us the least for those who are living in the precariousness of temporary accommodation, waiting to be able to return to their destroyed home. We are satisfied, even if we had requested suspension for two years, and in any case we believe that there should be a tax relief measure in the future. There is also funding for monitoring networks, which are useful for predicting weather events in calamitous conditions. An agenda for aid to farmers affected by disasters was also adopted. The law is already there, only the implementing decree is missing in the hope that epic times should not be expected. The exclusion for the year 2014 from the Internal Stability Pact was obtained from the expenses incurred by the municipalities and used for reconstruction, restoration and security of the territory as a result of the calamitous events, for a maximum total amount of € 5 million always for the year 2014. And again, it is not rebuilt in areas at hydraulic risk if the area is not put in safety first: it is absolutely unthinkable, in fact, as recognized with the approval in the Chamber of the appropriate amendment, to finance a reconstruction mechanism in areas at hydraulic risk without proceeding to a preventive safety of the area, in order to avoid rebuilding the houses without worrying about the fact that the first heavy rain could be flooded again, with all the consequences of the case. In short, they are rules dictated by a common sense that for too long seemed fugitive in these classrooms, but that today seems to be able to find the right place in parliamentary work. There is also to be considered the speech "urban frank zone" that this time has not passed, despite the commitment made in this sense by Commissioner Errani, and despite the willingness shown in the electoral campaign by the President of the Council to discuss it but we would not want it to be lost in the meandering of the many promises never kept from which these territories continue to be victims. There is still a very serious need to deal with the situation of small companies affected by disasters, which today are forced to pay taxes as if nothing had happened: it is what is required with the agenda at first signing Nugnes that I very much hope can be accepted. We therefore call on the Government to commit itself as soon as possible to putting in place measures to reduce the tax burden on these companies. These proposals are based on common sense: discussing and analysing these measures is the natural approach which should be reserved for such important issues and which, to date, have not been taken into due consideration. For those who live in Campania, but we could say the same of many other regions that have experienced dramas such as those of Emilia, the memory of the earthquake of Irpinia, or of the most recent landslide events that violently struck Sarno and Fifteen are wounds still open that recur whenever the slightest signal of an earthquake is spread or the news of exceptional weather events such as those we are seeing more and more frequently. Events that for a vast area, between the Provinces of Naples and Caserta, cause punctually the collapse of the necessary communication routes in case of emergency relief interventions to the populations, rather than the flooding of large portions of agricultural land, violently invested by the meteoric waters, which are not well channeled to the delivery basins and, therefore, not regulated in what should be their proper disposal. The many tragic past experiences oblige us, therefore, to take the necessary precautionary measures against the consequences that meteoric phenomena such as these and seismic events of particular importance can entail in terms of devastation of the territory and, above all, in terms of the loss of human lives. And that is why I ask you to support also the agenda G103, at the first signature of Senator Sergio Puglia, with which we ask the Government to consider the opportunity to decide the state of emergency for the territories affected by the atmospheric events of 16 June, with particular regard to those of the Vesuvian area; to take initiatives to foresee, in conjunction with the Region and the local authorities concerned and in agreement with the trade associations, the granting of contributions for the repair and restoration of infrastructure and buildings for agricultural and commercial productive use in the aforementioned area. We all agree on the need to reach the approval of this decree, because we cannot waste any more time, but we cannot fail to regret the fact that more could have been done. As usual, the fine words uttered do not correspond as much commendable actions. We could have shown the Emilians that we had done everything possible to finally allow reconstruction on their territory, because this is the task of the State: to guarantee a decent life for its citizens, especially those in difficulty. This decree, therefore, is only a first significant step, which nevertheless shows that, when you want and there is the political will, something good can be done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u23	Mr President, Madam Representative for the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the converted decree-law has the merit of ensuring the continuity of the State's presence in the areas of Emilia-Romagna marked by three tragic and calamitous events affecting families, communities and businesses in those territories. It is therefore necessary to share the ratio of the decree in question. Even for a political force placed at the opposition such as ours, the reasons and purposes of the measure are to be welcomed and supported, without giving in to the easy and hypocritical temptation of exploitation for exclusively demagogic use. Moreover, I would like to point out that already in the transition to the Chamber the Group of Forza Italia has committed itself seriously to improving and further enriching the decree. The text, as we have heard, is divided into two parts: two articles dealing respectively with the urgent interventions of the Commissioner for the reconstruction of the Emilia-Romagna Region and the integration of the National Emergency Fund. Article 1 certainly has the merit of improving and completing reconstruction activities. In order to achieve this objective, the breakdown of financial resources for private individuals, economic activities and hydraulic safety works is specified in detail. The measures identified to give benefits to farmers affected by calamitous events are very welcome. These measures are introduced by paragraph 5-a of Article 1, which refers to Legislative Decree no. 102 of 2004. They also have the advantage of simplifying paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, which govern the powers conferred on the Commissioner and the arrangements for granting contributions. All the provisions relating to the management of the loan operations carried out by the owners of buildings destroyed or inaccessible are certainly acceptable: these are several paragraphs, which deal with different needs, all of which must be taken into account. These reflections, together with those concerning the use of the tax credit, the measures relating to the Cassa Integrazione Guadi and the extension of the terms of Decree-Law No 74 of 2012 for the buildings used as main residence - to allow therefore also the sanatoria of the registration, with a mockery payment of 2 percent - are the positive and most shareable part of the decree-law. Article 2 deals with the operation of the National Emergency Fund, and I must make a negative comment on this, because the results are not satisfactory, given its limited appropriations. In particular, it should be pointed out that this legislative text completely escapes the issue of the prevention of hydrogeological failure. It should be pointed out that in recent years the two branches of Parliament have repeatedly raised this issue with motions, draft laws and other parliamentary initiatives; yet, on this occasion too, the Government has glittered on the subject, limiting itself to addressing only the issue of emergencies. I understand that there was a problem of skills and subjects that were not to be superimposed, but, as we have heard from Senator Uras, the problem arises again and there are laws that are waiting for answers in this regard; moreover, all this goes to the detriment of the needs of prevention. It is therefore the most appropriate forum to remind ourselves and the Government that the objective of preventing hydrogeological risk must be a priority, to remind them that it does not live there by Expo alone or by MOSE alone, to emphasize that in the last two years no concrete initiative has yet been implemented by the Executive: we are still at the slogans and record the punctual tragic recriminations of the next day without being able to do anything. Returning to the decree-law under consideration, the inconsistency of the Government with respect to the role assigned to the Provinces of Modena and Bologna is still to be highlighted. The same government that empties the Provinces (in fact, that abolishes them with constitutional reform), then realizes their function, their irreplaceability, and tries to involve them in the management of emergencies. In this case, the comment would be a bitter irony that could be used to point out the inconsistency and contradiction of government policies. Before concluding, let me give you two more reflections. The first concerns the invitation to the Government to address the problem of the recent natural disasters that have affected several areas of Puglia, with considerable damage to the agricultural enterprises of that territory. In the coming days I expect eloquent and punctual answers also with the use of the National Fund, as well as in Article 2; however, if it is true what happens for Sardinia (and I refer again to the words of Senator Uras), I do not have much hope from this point of view. The second consideration, Mr President, is of a more political nature, and concerns the management of emergencies in our country. Over the past few years, the work of the center-right governments has been stigmatized for the frequent use of emergency legislation and commissionerial powers, as if this practice were the figure of the governments of President Berlusconi: after years the same practices take place also under other Executives, without particular and significant differences. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, has explained in detail the measure and has done so with competence also in virtue of his knowledge of the territory. I agree with what he has said, so I will not go into detail, limiting myself to some general considerations also on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. I took part in the inspection of the Committee on Agriculture on 31 March and confirmed the seriousness of the situation. I already knew the drama caused by the earthquake of two years ago, also thanks to the many initiatives carried out by the institutions and especially by the volunteers of Trentino; I witnessed many of these and therefore I want to thank everyone publicly. However, what impressed me most, alongside the drama of these communities so badly affected, (and I say this with a certain amount of admiration) is to note the courage and willpower of the affected populations: to note that, despite the enormous damage, almost all the population has returned to the homes and a large part of the enterprises are divided, as Mr Vaccari has also said. This must be done to the benefit of those communities, because it is not at all obvious, and I hope that this will also be an example for other situations which, on the other hand, are struggling to restart. However, misfortune has been added and, just as the head was rising, heavy climatic events - from floods to air trumpets - have again aggravated the situation. In the course of the inspection we were able to ascertain all this, starting with the damage to the agricultural sector, also aware that these last events could be avoided in some way. In this regard it is obvious to denounce the obvious fragility of the Italian territory. This is why we have also reiterated this in many documents in recent years: we need an extraordinary plan of hydrogeological prevention not only for Emilia-Romagna, but for the whole country. And here is also the importance, which I will never tire of mentioning, of the permanence of man in the mountains, the absence of which is the origin of many events of hydrogeological failure. In the report by the Committee on Agriculture, for which I was rapporteur, we expressed the need for urgent and targeted action. We are pleased to note that these needs have been met. The government has moved, the House has been fast, as well as the Senate and I thank everyone for their cooperation. This measure also contains important elements that are not only of interest to Emilia-Romagna, but also to the emergency system of the whole of Italy. It introduces rules to improve the efficiency of hydraulic systems, also speeds up the procedures and efficiency of interventions in the survey of climate events and allocates many resources to families and businesses, especially agricultural ones, but it also gives Parliament the opportunity to evaluate interventions and the use of resources through the report that will have to be made every year to the Chambers. I very much hope that, for once, alongside so many never-ending emergencies, so many shortcomings and so many shortcomings, Parliament will be able to take note of a demonstration of the efficiency and operation of our institutions at all levels. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked on this, and particularly those of the Senate and the Environment Commission, who have also improved the effectiveness and operation of the rules with agendas and recommendations, but which are not final but are an absolutely important step. I also thank all the political forces because, when there is a willingness on the part of everyone to do well, the results are achieved and are positive. I believe that with this measure everyone has helped to write a good page of politics and good governance. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u26	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u27	Mr President, this decree is referred to as referring to the population of Emilia-Romagna, but, as has been pointed out in the speeches of the senators who preceded me, its scope goes beyond the necessary intervention for the population of Emilia-Romagna. It again puts, as a first step - I am well aware of this - the issue of financing and intervention that must be provided on a national scale for national emergencies, in particular by putting into play the resources already allocated for calamitous events that have not then been used. It is a valuable element, because having a fund for national emergencies that you can't draw from because without resources obviously means having a tool that is ticked and, for a country like ours, in which the events of magnetism unfortunately are frequent, it is almost a mockery. However, the element that concerns the population of Emilia-Romagna is certainly fundamental, and I am sorry if it is lived in terms of competition of one area of Italy compared to another. This is not, of course, the spirit with which these decrees must be written. There is a fundamental deficiency, constituted by the absence of a national framework law for the emergency, a question that we have all remembered also in interventions related to past measures, but I would like to remind you that unfortunately the municipalities to which this specific decree is addressed, for the interventions provided for in Article 1, are common whose populations have been subject to a sum of absolutely exceptional calamitous events, concentrated in an area all in all limited: from the earthquake to the floods to two trumpets of air and to the serious and exceptional atmospheric events of 30 April last. The fundamental problem that has been posed to us, therefore, has been to reorganize an intervention that however had already been wisely placed in order to cope with these tragic innovations, and the resources that are utilized in almost all had already been allocated and were therefore already in the availability of the Region, in logic, that as I have already said before should concern the entire national territory, to make the best use also of the resources already allocated. Having said that, I would like to highlight some elements that reinforce a characteristic of the intervention that had already been put in place in Emilia-Romagna and that, precisely in the absence of a national framework law on these issues, can be considered as a national investment. We have already said before that the Regional Commissioner's network of ordinances is a reference framework which could be borrowed at national level and which places the key issue of transparency at the centre. The interventions for natural disasters force public funds into play, and it is very important that they are traceable, that they give consideration to citizenship all of how the resources are used and that transparent and controlled procedures prevent mafia or other infiltrations, which unfortunately, as we know, are a characteristic in our country. The other element for which this measure is very useful, strengthening a characteristic that is already proper of the intervention in Emilia-Romagna and that can be of help to set similar and due interventions in other parts of Italy, is the way in which it is operating and will be able to operate, thanks to this measure, the entire public supply chain, in synergy with the interventions related to the declaration of the state of emergency, the identification of the resources, which are the responsibility of the central body, making a pivot on the President of the Region as commissioner, but being able to rely on the entire network of local administrations, both municipal and provincial, to which, as is emphasized also in this decree, can be delegated in a transparent way also specific functions. Precisely the fact that this chain operates in an integrated way is a fundamental element for the effectiveness of the interventions that are developed, but also for their controlability by the populations concerned. At this point I would like to open a parenthesis to underline and thank once again the testimony given by the local administrators in terms of administrative capacity and immediate response, even without means, compared to these emergencies that have followed on the territory. It was a testimony of administrative but also personal capacity, because many of these administrators were in turn victims, especially in the earthquake and in the calamitous events to which we refer. They have, therefore, given a personal testimony that has activated and completed a network of solidarity that has developed in these territories and that has concerned and involved operators in other fields, as in the case of the health chain, the associations of the third sector, the Civil Protection, the individual citizens and also the immigrant population that has self-organized and helped to build this network. The investment that is being made in this affected territory - I repeat once again - from a succession of natural disasters is an experience that can be an example and useful for the whole nation. We are aware that reconstruction takes time; it has required a progressive development of interventions and requires a plurality of fields of action. We are not only talking about reconstruction in a material sense, but also, as has been pointed out in many interventions, prevention, especially with appropriate interventions on the hydrogeological basin, to prevent these failures from happening again. As regards the earthquake, the interventions also concern the setting up of both residential buildings and, above all, for production activities that were not yet in conformity and that, even if they have not been directly affected and have not suffered damage, must be arranged with a view to prevention. We are talking, therefore, about a very broad intervention in which assistance to the population also certainly plays a fundamental role: many people have lost their homes or are not yet available. But we also need to have a view in favour of economic recovery. Let us remember that it is an entire territorial system that has entered into crisis: the productive apparatus, the agricultural enterprises, the residences and the historical centers. That is why I would like to stress very strongly the agenda presented and approved in the Commission, which I would like to repeat to everyone, which concerns an intervention, which we generally call a free zone, a very surgical procedure which affects precisely the areas of the historic centres affected by the events of the earthquake and the flood. It would be of great help to micro-enterprises operating in those areas - I am thinking of those with incomes of less than EUR 50 000 and less than five employees - to intervene like a free zone, but within the limits of the agreed European rules, therefore with a lack of resources. This intervention, focusing precisely on the point of extreme need and on the historical centres, which are the key point for the recovery of Community life, could help in many respects, in particular with regard to the recovery of both economic and trust of the populations who have been so heavily and repeatedly put to the test. [[Applause from Senators Orrù and Pegorer.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u28	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u29	Mr President, I would just like to make a few comments on some of the points that my fellow Members wanted to address in their speeches. The first concerns the unequal treatment which the measure in question would theoretically introduce. In my report I have tried to clarify - but I believe that the article does so in a clear way - that this is a specificity linked to the combination of several events on the same territory. As a resident of those areas, I would gladly give other territories of the country the fortune of having had an earthquake, two trumpets of air and a flood over two years, in the sense that it is a unique situation in our country, which as such has been addressed. The seismic crater was composed of 54 municipalities of the Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy regions, 18 of which in the province of Modena, in which last 11 have undergone all three events to which I referred. I believe that this is the fundamental difference, which justifies the need for treatment and intervention differentiated from other territories. The second point concerns resources: in the report I tried to clarify - and the measure does well - that the 210 million euros, destined, on the one hand, to the restoration of normality for citizens and businesses and, on the other, to the interventions to secure the territory from the hydraulic point of view, are not additional resources, but to rely exclusively on the special accounting, already established for the reconstruction of the earthquake of 2012, with Decree-Law No 74 of 2012, in the name of the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region. We are therefore talking about financial items that are already in the budget of the special accounts of the Emilia-Romagna Region. I say this because, alongside those 210 million, the Government in the House has done a very important thing: it has significantly quantified the budget of the National Emergency Fund in 100 million; Fund that obviously applies to all other emergencies, without prejudice to the fundamental role of the Regions in determining, after the declaration of the state of emergency, the report of damages and related needs, which, it must be said, not all have done in such a certain and sober time, after the manifestation of events). I therefore believe that it is wrong to refer to a disparity on the subject of resources, also for this reason. With the third point I conclude: I believe that this country, as several colleagues have said, from now on must no longer have unequal treatment when disasters occur. We need that framework law that so many have called for on natural disasters. Let us try in this law to take advantage of the good practices that in recent years the different obtorto-neck regions have tried to achieve. A framework law that must necessarily try to keep together emergency and reconstruction, without separating the two times; it must try to involve in a responsible way the local communities, in addition to the Regions, indicating certain times and modalities for companies and citizens in order to help them exit from the emergency phase on the subject of taxes, taxes and compensations; it must provide, for example, a compulsory insurance for citizens and businesses on their own properties both as regards seismic risk and as regards hydrogeological risk, and it must have, at its own endowment and support, certain resources to cope, on the one hand, with emergencies and, on the other hand, with a planning of prevention interventions. We therefore need a national strategy for adapting to climate change, because that is what we need, and the government has given a first and important response to this: the establishment of unity for hydrogeological failure in the Presidency of the Council, which has already adopted a first measure that changes the role of extraordinary Commissioners, empowers the regions and provides resources from the Structural Funds. I believe that this is undoubtedly one of the avenues on which to work also in relation to Parliament and the proposals that colleagues have made and which we are working on. Finally, I would like to focus on good practice. My colleague, Mrs Manassero, spoke about the need to make a system and not to start over all the time. Mrs Mussini then referred to the recovery and protection of cultural heritage. This is an important issue which could take second place in this emergency. I would like to remind you that at the Milan Triennale it has been open for a few weeks, and it will be open until the end of July, the Terrefreme exhibition, which the Ministry of Cultural Heritage has built together with the local authorities involved in the 2012 earthquake and which tells the ways and coordinated work of the superintendences, local authorities, the national system of civil protection on the one hand to secure, and, on the other hand, to start the restoration, as well as the real estate, also the artistic and cultural assets, historical archives, libraries and so on. I think it's one of those examples of good practice to look at even in the coming emergencies. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u30	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u31	Mr President, I shall make a brief speech, subject to the substance of the amendments and agendas. I had the opportunity to see a very interesting and conscious debate, especially on two issues. The report and all the speeches have emphasized in fact that in the face of a story, which concerned a particular area of Italy, there was the awareness of having to intervene in a precise and urgent way, without putting into this bill of conversion additional elements that distorted the same function, as we have been very often recalled also by the interventions of the President of the Republic. However, I would like to clarify a concept that has been repeated also by the rapporteur Vaccari and on which I would like us to dwell: the decree comes from the fact that no new resources are introduced, but it determines a situation of remodulation within the special accounting of the Emilia-Romagna Region provided for in Decree-Law No 74 of 2012, decree that I remember not only concerned the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna, but also Veneto and Mantovano. The powers of the Commissioners of the Regions, including Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy, were defined there. I believe that we have had to intervene not only on the very particular occasion of having had calamitous events affecting the same group of municipalities (and, therefore, an entire population, within two years), but also in order to alter the possibility of the extraordinary Commissioner of Emilia-Romagna to initiate within the procedure of works by way of derogation a number of elements that would also clarify the function of the derogation. From this point of view, the work done in the Chamber of Deputies, and which today the Senate welcomes with great awareness (I am very aware of this, because it is an important fact), has greatly improved the original text of the Government. Why did you improve it? This is the other element on which I would like to reflect: because the political and cultural conditions of mutual listening have been determined. All the amendments adopted in the House were almost unanimous, but by a large majority. Everyone has worked in the interest of taking on the issue of emergency no longer - simply - as a matter of fact to be dealt with as an emergency. The theme of this country is, today, the possibility of having a more strategic and structural vision of the emergency. Above all, it is important to have grasped the spirit of the decree (this was also the merit of this Government), which is given not only in the sense of declamatory but trying to refinance the Emergency Fund. I believe that none of us are happy with what we have managed to put into the Emergency Fund, because we know that it is completely inadequate. However, the refinancing of the Fund allows management which, in the meantime, addresses that emergency in a much more significant and precise way and which allows all those critical issues, which have also arisen in this House, to find within that Fund a much more definite and precise determination. To my colleague from the Northern League who spoke on the issue of Veneto, I would like to remind you that on 16 May the state of emergency of the Veneto region was determined. The order for the emergency was sent in order to have an agreement with the Veneto Region and to then proceed to the insertion of the works to which we refer. You have stressed this: there is an attempt to define, also for the function of the Commissioners, a method and also a capacity to maintain reconstruction so as to be close to the people. I believe that many of the issues that have resonated will certainly find the government very sensitive to the adoption of agendas, but I would not like them to be conceived as the element on which we remain silent about any disagreement that this House has not been able to carry out its amending function. I believe, however, that precisely those agendas are the testimony of issues that remain open and to which we will be committed, of all the parliamentary forces and above all of the Government, to find, in the next useful measures, the effective solution. In particular - as the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, has said - the question of setting up the Commission for hydrogeological failure in the Presidency of the Council is on the register of the Court of Auditors. I believe that our colleague in Sardinia, Senator Uras, is right: today the issue, for all of us, is that we can deal with emergency and disaster only on one condition, that is, by making a real prevention policy. By way of prevention, I mean not only maintenance work, but also other measures: I know that draft laws on the possibility of soil blocking lie in the two branches of Parliament, so I am referring to a completely different measure on soils. I have also heard of a draft framework law on civil protection: perhaps, on these issues, the time has arrived for all of us, not of the emergency, but of an organic intervention that helps to face now structural nodes of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u32	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments to it, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established in the Commission, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1-a.0.1, 1-a.0.2, 1-a.0.3, 1-a.0.5 and 2.0.1 cannot be accepted because of the extraneous nature of the decree-law, which contains urgent measures in favour of the populations affected by the disasters in Emilia-Romagna, as well as measures relating to the National Emergency Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u33	Mr President, I am in favour of the G100, G101, G102, G104 and G107 agendas. I am against the G103 agenda. I call on the presenters to withdraw the G105 agenda because it has the same content as the Commission's G100 agenda. In the same way, I call on the presenters to withdraw the G106 agenda. I am against Amendments 1.2, 1.5, 1.6, 1.8, 1.11, 1.12 and 1.14. I also object to the agendas for G1.100, G1.101, G1.102, G1.103 and G1.105. I call on the authors to withdraw the agenda G1.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u34	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion, except on the agenda for G1,101, which the Government is willing to accept as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u35	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G100, G101, G102, G104 and G107 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G103 agenda. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u38	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the representative of the Government whether he is prepared to accept the agenda for the G103 with the following rewording of the device: "to consider the possibility of deciding the state of emergency for the territories affected by the weather events of 16 June, with particular regard to the municipalities of the Campania Region, rather than with particular regard to those of the Vesuvius area." I believe that what happened on 16 June is an exceptional event that affected several municipalities in Campania. Farmers, various businesses and even the private citizens who have seen their apartments disemboweled by the trumpets, are now on their knees. I therefore believe that a rethink by the Government is appropriate. You might as well put it aside for the time being. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to reply to my colleague on a point which I believe is a matter of substance. The state of emergency does not establish it by the Government: it is the regions of the affected municipalities that must submit the application to the Government, which will then make an evaluation. I am prepared to put aside the agenda to find a wording that does not allow the state of emergency to be declared, but that, within this more general situation, if the state of emergency is determined, the Government will use the same tools as those used for the other regions where the state of emergency has been declared.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u40	The G103 agenda is therefore being shelved. Senator Nugnes, the rapporteur had called for the withdrawal of the G105 agenda, because he felt he was absorbed in the agenda presented by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u41	So not withdrawn, but absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u42	I repeat, there was a call for withdrawal because the issues raised in it were dealt with on the Commission's agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u43	NUGNES (M5S). So he was absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u44	All right, Senator Nugnes, the G105 agenda is intended to be absorbed. There was also an invitation to withdraw on the G106 agenda. Senator Arrigoni, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u45	The G106 agenda provides for the establishment of the free zone. I welcome the call for withdrawal because the G100 agenda, presented by the Commission, contains this forecast and already includes the signing of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u46	The G106 agenda is therefore withdrawn. Amendment 1.1 is not possible. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.2 is impervious. Amendments 1.3 and 1.4 cannot be proposed. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.5, 1.6 and 1.8 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.14 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u49	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that the municipalities in the province of Ravenna recently hit by flooding events, in particular by a water bomb, between 31 May and 1 June 2014, it is true that they were not affected by the earthquake event of 2012, but have reported, even if not yet subject to an emergency decree, enormous damage. We therefore call on the Government to make every effort to ensure that these municipalities can draw resources from the National Emergency Fund. There is a need and it seems strange to us that, if the state of emergency is declared for these municipalities, they cannot avail themselves of this fund. We ask the rapporteur and the government to reconsider their opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me that the rapporteur and the government confirm the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u52	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on this point because I am from the commune of Faenza and I am directly interested in this agenda. I would like to point out that today the mayor of Faenza is in the Emilia-Romagna Region to assess the possibility that the state of emergency will be declared. This is a case that should be included in the financing of the Emergency Fund and should not be considered as a particular case. That's why I signed the letter proposed by Senator Amati, along with all the other senators, to identify this path, which seems more appropriate to us. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agendas G1,100 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. The Government has said that it is willing to accept the agenda G1,101 as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Arrigoni? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, and I thank the Government for its willingness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the rapporteur did not insist on the vote, the agenda was adopted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1.103 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. A call for withdrawal was made by the rapporteur on the agenda. Do you accept this invitation, Senator Albano? Mr Albano (PD). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on agenda G1.105 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak. VACCARI, rapporteur. I am against Amendment 1-a.0.4. Mr Amici, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u56	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to know why Amendment 1.0.1 was not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u57	Amendment 1.0.1 is unacceptable and therefore cannot be put to the vote. Amendments 1-a.0.1, 1-a.0.2, 1-a.0.3 and 1-a.0.5 are also unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 1-a.0.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1-a.0.4 tabled by Senator Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1518 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.0.1 is not possible. We move on to the G103 agenda, which was previously put aside, on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to propose a rewording of the agenda, in the sense of deleting the first paragraph of the operative part and amending the beginning of the second paragraph as follows: Following the declaration of the state of emergency, take steps to ensure that they are in line with the region and local authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u59	Senator Puglia, do you accept the government's proposal for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u60	Yes, Mr. President. I would also like to point out that Senator Cuomo is not present, but that he will certainly also sign the agenda G103 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u61	Since Senator Cuomo is not present, we assume so. However, it will remain in the Minutes of the sitting. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u65	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the measure in the vote is in that virtuous path of operational interventions by the Government to protect the territories affected by the 2012 earthquake and pertaining to the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions, with the aim of providing support to those critical consequences of a calamitous event, which has brought to its knees, from the social and economic point of view, a particularly strategic area of the country, while guaranteeing the most suitable tools to allow the reconstruction of this area. (at 11.30 a.m.) (BYAGIO'S FOLLOW-UP). But buffering interventions, although unavoidable and legitimate, cannot and must not deviate from the country's priority mission, i.e. to perfect an intervention strategy oriented to the protection of the territory, to environmental stability as an indispensable parameter of the security of the territory. Everything that is done afterwards, in particular to intervene on the damage caused by natural disasters, albeit legitimate and virtuous, we must begin to interpret it as a kind of failure of the country-system, which has not been able to create those conditions in order to avoid such devastating consequences. By submitting to us on this decree, and on the interesting changes that have occurred in its reading in the Chamber, we must frame it as an expression of the continuity of a project of intervention, bringing new measures destined to the municipalities of Emilia-Romagna affected by calamitous events and providing specific interventions in favour of the operation of the Fund for national emergencies. It is therefore an articulation of intervention measures in an area already exposed - as I said - to the seismic events of 2012, but characterized by additional dramas such as the alluvial events of 2013 and January 2014. The resources allocated by the decree are addressed to private subjects who have suffered damage and can be used in the two years 2014-2015. In particular, the provisions of the National Solidarity Fund for Agriculture are intended for farms affected. At the same time, the measure provides for urgent measures to ensure hydrogeological safety, in line with Community rules on water regulation and assessment of flood risks. In this perspective, the changes made to the Chamber on the side of the prevention of calamitous events and the protection of the territory are particularly interesting. Certainly the scenario of emergencies and situations at risk in our country is so vast and varied that one cannot think of putting a solution with few and occasional interventions of a financial nature. But in this scenario, although complex and articulated, it is intended to place a package of measures that, while starting from a specific calamitous event, can represent a kind of good practice for situations at risk for the entire national territory, without legitimizing a sort of discrimination of the emergency, but opening the way to a new way of conception of this, which is in line with the parameters of efficiency, pragmatism and long-term operation. As I said, it is necessary to reorient the modalities of activation of the measures of control and management of the territory, providing operating protocols that are effective and fast and that do not have to wait for the event to occur before running to the shelters. The culture of prevention must be the new priority of the Government and with the operational and financial perspectives defined in the DEF, precisely on the side of interventions against the failure, we can consider this perspective fully feasible. Surely the decree under consideration is an act of responsibility and concreteness, beyond those that have been the neglects of the past and the lightness of the administrative choices, and the speed that has conditioned the treatment, both to the Chamber and here to the Senate, thanks also to the virtuous work of the Environment Commissions, is the clear confirmation. I would therefore like to thank my colleague, Mr Vaccari, who, with great responsibility, has managed to conduct the procedure of the measure, highlighting its salient aspects and creating that climate of sharing which is indispensable for the proper continuation of the examination. We are faced with an emerging policy instrument, but it contains in itself the elements for preventive planning in the most critical areas. It is as if two different but concomitant visions of government intervention took shape: on the one hand, the customary one of post-emergency action, on the other, the innovative one of prevention and the elaboration of a strategic plan; on the one hand, the inevitable continuity and responsibility taken over past, on the other hand, the implementation of new and - hopefully - winning choices. The Per l'Italia Group therefore expresses its support for this measure, precisely because this wants to be the expression of a new strategy of land management and protection by the Government, focused on prevention, control of hydrogeological risks and environmental protection. [[Applause from Senators Casini and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u68	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to make a brief speech, first of all to say that our Group agrees on the conversion of the decree-law. It is therefore in favour of the concrete aid that will be given to the Emilia-Romagna Region following the well-known atmospheric events that have hit these territories hard. The aid will contribute to the reconstruction and recovery of normality in all sectors, from services to infrastructure. We also believe that the work done in the Commission - and I too thank the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, for his work - has further improved the text that we have received. Allow me only to reflect briefly on the increasing frequency of hydrogeological events affecting our national territory, which, among other things, was the result of the hearing in 13a. Commission of the prefect Gabrielli, responsible - as you know - for the National Civil Protection, where it emerged clearly as great responsibility of the hydrogeological disaster in our country and the consequent enormous damage following atmospheric events (sometimes not so exceptional) is to be attributed to the abandonment of the territory, in particular of that hilly and mountainous territory that for centuries has been furrowed by canals, streams, streams and object of special attention and maintenance (among other things, we in the mountains call these attentions corvèe, and see the periodic involvement of all the inhabitants of the fractions, according to secular habits) that have allowed the containment and proper water channeling, so as not to represent a danger, or at least to contain it, even in case of events outside the norm. Therefore, administrations must give priority to this important aspect of the care of the territory, all the more important the more it involves the great rivers and streams of the mountains, in beautiful but difficult and challenging territories to control; it is fundamental for a harmonious and correct hydrogeological structure of the whole national territory. This also means a concrete contrast to the abandonment of the mountain. With this brief reflection, I reiterate the Group's vote in favour of the draft law in question for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u71	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Representative of the Government, the decree-law in the vote is in its aims which can be shared by the Group of the North League which, at first reading in the House, has also contributed effectively to improving it with its own amendments. Too bad, however, that a further refinement of the text was practically foreclosed here in the Senate, where the measure came armored. As for the forecast of urgent measures in favor of the populations of vast areas of the territory of Emilia-Romagna hard hit by the earthquake of 2012 and - as if by force - from successive exceptional weather events of May 2013 and this year, you can not be opposed, also because these measures concern a regional reality that pays, between direct and indirect taxes, almost 35 billion euros every year and for which with this measure they are owed money for emergencies derived from the two successive natural disasters. It is clear, however, that the provision lacks a non-negligible part. The earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012, in fact, hit hard, with considerable damage, also territories outside Emilia-Romagna: about 6.7 percent of the earthquake territory is in the province of Mantova, therefore in Lombardy, and 1 percent is in the province of Rovigo, so there is also Veneto. For these Lombard and Venetian territories, also affected, the decree does not, however, establish providencies, when it is known, for example, that the floods that occurred between 30 January and 18 February 2014 have affected heavily large areas of Veneto - including the Polesine - arriving to determine even the state of emergency, resolved by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2014. Considering that the amendments we tabled in favour of Lombardy and Veneto cannot be proposed out of the question - an absurdity, after having always dealt with decrees that were real minestrones because of heterogeneity of aspects! - our concern and action - and I also hope that those of the Government and of the entire Parliament in the future - must be directed towards ensuring with a subsequent measure answers and resources also to the populations and businesses of these two provinces affected by the same earthquake and flood events. I would also like to mention here how the two regions in question contribute to the country with a fiscal surplus of €50 billion and €20 billion annually respectively. Article 1 of the decree-law authorizes the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region, as Commissioner for post-earthquake reconstruction, to operate with the same powers of derogation also for the implementation of the interventions for restoration and reconstruction, assistance to the populations and economic recovery in the territories of the municipalities affected by the specific floods and atmospheric adversities. Governor Vasco Errani, who, moreover, thanks to an amendment approved by the North League, will have to report annually to Parliament on the state of play of the work and on the use of the resources allocated, will have wide powers regarding the measure of the contributions to be made, the destination of the same, the modalities and the times of their delivery, having in the 2014-2015 biennium of a sum of 210 million euros. Excellent use of the principle of subsidiarity: he will also be able to delegate to the mayors of the affected municipalities the control and coordination for the security of the territory and rivers, the restoration of public buildings and compensation to private individuals and businesses. And here there is a second issue that our Group intends to stigmatize and highlight, and that is what concerns the financial coverage used. In fact, both the part of the 160 million identified in the state guarantee for subsidised bank financing and the part of the 50 million already available in the special accounts of the Commissioner Delegate do not represent a new authorisation of expenditure, but concern the use of resources already foreseen for the reconstruction of the territories hit by the earthquake, which at this point are also committed for the damage caused by recent atmospheric adversities. It is a short blanket, which will not be able to cover all the needs that are evident from the many reports of damages made by individuals, businesses, agricultural companies and public bodies. I would like to make a comment on the National Emergency Fund. Under Article 2, this fund has been integrated with the resources entered in the Presidency budget of the Council of Ministers which are still available in connection with the non-activation of interventions under specific legislative provisions following natural disasters. The Fund has also been extended with the resources authorised and not used for past disasters; rules have also been introduced to simplify the management of funding for disasters and to speed up the operation of the Fund, allowing commitments for natural disasters to be made without the existing constraint of the quarterly commitment on the chapters of the State budget. These are acceptable provisions, which, however, fail to make the National Emergency Fund adequate in relation to needs, i.e. the amount of damage that our fragile territory repeatedly suffers. We have said a thousand times that our country is an extremely fragile country, strongly compromised by phenomena of hydrogeological failure that make it now urgent and unavoidable to activate serious measures to contrast the break in the balance between natural heritage, humanization and climate change. It is urgent to deal with complex and urgent problems through multiannual programmes of intervention based on the logic of prevention and that must see absolutely protagonists the peripheral and territorial bodies competent by law, that is, the mayors, who know the criticalities of their territory. The Lega Nord Group therefore hopes to see in the future fewer decree-laws that fight emergencies from landslides, erosions, floods that have occurred along the national territory, but more structural legislative interventions and political strategies aimed more at the prevention, the care of the territory, the adoption of active surveillance practices and constant maintenance of the soil, that are able to maintain in a state of concrete safety the most sensitive areas from the point of view of hydrogeological risk, avoiding disasters and floods similar to those to which the decree-law in conversion refers. Matteo Renzi, in his first speech for the confidence of last 24 February, had announced that on renewables and hydrogeological failure by March 2014 (and not next year or later) he would launch a plan articulated in individual sectors; as for the school building, he had promised so many investments against the hydrogeological failure, so as to overcome the logic of the emergency. For now we have only seen the installation of a mission unit that risks being yet another wheelchair, but of money, as for schools, at the moment nothing. It is the confirmation of the policy in which the Premier is certainly unbeatable, that of the adorable ads to which they do not follow the facts. Although with the critical issues highlighted, the vote of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will still be in favour of the measure in the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u74	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, on behalf of the Misto-SEL Group, I am voting in favour of this measure. I take this opportunity to take note, very briefly, of some statements that have come from the rapporteur and the Government in particular on the two issues that have been raised, namely the need to put into place now all the legislative literature, unfortunately copious, that has been made in the matter of natural disasters and to see if it is possible to prepare a sort of single text that allows to intervene in the most appropriate way by the State, the Regions, the Municipalities, all the subjects that can be usefully employed to intervene both on the emergency and on the reconstruction. The other aspect concerns the protection of the soil, that is, the organization of a plan of intervention that interrupts this crumbling of our territory and avoids not only the damage that weighs on public finance, but also the serious damage that weighs on the living conditions of the communities and that cause mourning. I hope - and I would suggest a working hypothesis on this point - that in the next Stability Act there is an annex that speaks specifically of the actions that the State must put in place for prevention. Since it is not a small amount of expenditure and because we can draw on more sources of funding, I believe that the Structural Funds can also be committed in this direction: those for development and cohesion can certainly be involved, and I believe that an annex which has a long-term presence in the Stability Act can be a useful instrument on which to test the newly established mission unit.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u77	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, as a Modenese I cannot fail to note the positive notes of this measure of conversion of the decree-law relating to an area between earthquakes, floods and trumpets of air, in recent years it has been particularly tormented. The appropriation of 210 million euros (even if then we will see how) for the years 2014 and 2015 in favor of the private subjects affected by these events, in particular of the agricultural holdings, in capital account up to 80% of the damage established, the loans at a reduced rate, the extension of the deadlines of the installments of the agricultural credit operations, the partial exemption from the payment of the contributions are certainly positive and timely interventions from the Government and the Parliament. There are also some interventions concerning the earthquake. I am referring, first of all, to the suspension of loans, a measure which was particularly awaited and which, of course, concerns the holders of loans relating to buildings that were destroyed, unusable or uninhabitable in the earthquake areas until 31 December 2015. I would also remind you of the possibility of covering with the tax credit the higher interest accrued as a result of the suspension of the loans and the suspension of payments for the repayment of debts for the depreciation plans for the soft loans granted at the time for the payment of the taxes. Then there is the exclusion from the formation of taxable income of contributions, compensations and compensations obtained, a point not yet clarified, and finally there are provisions for self-employed workers who have denounced damages to companies, studies and machinery for having contributions for reconstruction. The negative note, however, is that all this is always covered with the usual remnants of the six billion originally allocated to cope with the earthquake, because 160 of these 210 million are drawn from this Fund, which also means that, unfortunately, the delays in the post-earthquake reconstruction and a partial use of those funds are such that after years from the earthquake there are still problems of bureaucratic slowness that have not even allowed to use the funds originally allocated, which are properly moved on even more acute emergencies, but that make the need to find a mechanism for reconstruction that allows at least the hope to recover the historical centers in a reasonably short time, even if all people of common sense know the difficulties of facing, from the Eagle to Mirandola, the reconstruction of historic centers that have been so severely affected. This is therefore an expected decree, which is a fairly timely response to the latest emergencies, but two issues remain open which I would like to address briefly. The first concerns one of the most heavily industrialized areas of Italy: the Lower Modenese. We need to make a decision. We can think of rebuilding that area, where earthquakes have been, there are and will always be (because Italy is a seismic zone, like Japan, where they live with earthquakes of grade 8 or 9, although luckily the Po Valley is less seismic than Calabria or Abruzzo, and earthquakes can reach the highest level 6), and this we should have done before, since 2008-2009, when Professor Boschi, at national level, had indicated those areas as at risk and nothing had been done for prevention. Otherwise, we can let ourselves go to the madness of the No Trov committees that want to block any kind of development on the ground, not on the basis of scientific considerations, but on the basis of a precautionary principle that if it were applied in that way it would mean that no one could get on a car, an airplane and no one could do any kind of human activity because no one could guarantee with 100 percent chance that a person who moves by car or gets on an airplane could not have an accident. I understand now the difficulty of the Emilia-Romagna Region which has appointed a committee of experts who wrote an incredible thing, that is that it cannot be excluded that earthquakes can have some relationship with the extraction of oil and gas. Of course, they have given no proof that this can happen, but this concerns Emilia, the Adriatic, the entire Po Valley and the development of a country. I recall the need for these answers - and this is happening - to be given by technology and science, not by sorcerers or suggestions, not by an address that would really force us to say no to economic development. To say no to economic development would mean in Lower Modena saying no to well-being, health, care, proper treatment for the elderly, young people who are not employed, on the basis of considerations that have nothing scientific. So, we are finally waiting for the Region to want to deal with these things on the basis of scientific determinations. This is the way to go. I am sorry, for example, what happened in the past to the project to store gas in the aquifer in Rivara: instead of doing the EIA and allocating millions and millions of euros to private individuals to carry out scientific investigations in the subsoil and verify the conditions of risk, we followed the path of obscurantism, choosing not to do even research, not to deepen the issues related to the earthquake to say no prejudices. One last thing (I have already said it in the Chamber and I repeat it): the anti-mafia interdittives, the mechanism by which the administrations and prefectures want to fight the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra, in the earthquake zones but also outside, serve only to do favors to the 'ndrangheta, the camorra, and the mafia, and do not give any results to the local healthy and well-being companies that are hit by lunar anti-mafia interditives, not based on any concrete assumption. Just read 'Il Sole 24 Ore', which mentioned some cases and parliamentary questions. I turn to the Calabrians, the Sicilians and the bell towers: it seems possible that the companies can receive anti-mafia interdictive because after the earthquake they take on a Calabrian labourer and from the police investigations it emerges that the latter has a sentimental relationship with a woman who turns out to be the daughter of a person connected to a clan of the 'ndrangheta? A good person, Calabrian, Sicilian or bell, in the North can not even be a laborer in a company. What if in a police report he appears to have a sentimental relationship with a certain woman? Are these the reasons why interdicts are given? Do companies with hundreds of people fail with these reasons that have nothing criminal, while other companies - which I have already mentioned and will then remember - connected to the League of Cooperatives, who have had criminal seizures in Florence for serious crimes that have been charged, are still working quietly in the Lower Modenese? The government has answered me here through Deputy Minister Bubbico, who confirmed that what I was saying is absolutely true, but that the practice in the prefecture has not yet been perfected: there is therefore who was hit and who was not. There are hundreds of practices and, depending on those that are treated before or after, disparities are created on the territory. Above all, someone should explain to me what would be the effectiveness in contrasting the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta of administrative measures of this type, which totally prescind from a real verification of the infiltration. There we see in fact the prognostic possibility of a danger of future infiltration, all a process to intentions that however has devastating consequences. I know that the Government and the Undersecretary have prepared a measure for which at least, at the time when the interdicts are issued, a commissioner must be appointed who can manage these companies, because in this way not only does not fight organized crime, but they cause devastating economic damage to a territory that has already had great difficulties, such as those caused by the earthquake. This is also an appeal to you, because it is not enough to allocate the necessary funds to overcome disasters, but it is also necessary to have a conception of the development of those areas that cannot fail to confront the reconstruction of an industrial fabric, that in order to work and operate it needs energy, infrastructure, legality, and not to be persecuted by the State. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u80	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, more than 20 million cubic meters of water, over 1,000 evacuated people, 10,000 hectares of submerged crops, 1,800 artisanal sheds and at least 110 damaged farms: these are the numbers of the exceptional flood of the Secchia river that, due to the collapse of the embankment, invaded Emilia in the same areas that had already been hit by the earthquake in 2012, perhaps for fracking. Among the causes of the flood are certainly the lack of maintenance, ordinary and extraordinary, of the territory, in order to prevent the hydrogeological risk, as well as the canalization and cementification of the rivers. For the care of the territory we need certain and constant resources, before the break of the banks and the collapse of the land: we need extraordinary plans with funding for urgent interventions. In Emilia-Romagna, the water catchment network extends for 75,000 square kilometres, compared to the road network, which is 46,000: this gives the idea of how complex and articulated the system of land management and defence is and how indispensable it is to be able to count on safe and continuous financing. One million euros a day is the amount we spend on emergencies caused by the damage caused by extreme weather events, which increasingly occur in our country. The fault is certain of the precipitations, but above all of the bad management of the territory, with large areas of the Peninsula left in total abandonment. The figure for environmental disasters is in tragic increase: if up to 2000 each year there were four regions affected by these phenomena, in the last ten years their number has doubled. The prevention work that would be needed is slow: in the last ten years only EUR 2 billion has been allocated to the Hydrogeological Planning Plans (PAI), although, with the efforts of the last year's Stability Act, something has been added to the Fund, but it is still too little, compared with a total budget of EUR 4.5 billion, to implement the 4,800 interventions in the highest risk areas. In order to carry out the 15,000 interventions planned by all the PAI, it has been estimated a cost of 40 billion euros. Abandoning the great public works in the project and not yet begun and putting at the center of the interest of the country the defense of the ground, assigning to this field resources allocated for infrastructural works, which are sometimes of dubious utility and - you will allow me - of dubious legality, would allow, on the one hand, to find and immediately make available the funds for the implementation of the National Strategic Plan and, on the other hand, to create work in a widespread way on the national territory and not concentrated in individual areas. The transformations of recent decades have aggravated latent environmental tensions. On the one hand, population growth has been concentrated in areas already characterised by high levels of hydrogeological fragility. This has increased the human pressure and the protective measures that would have been necessary and have not been done, have aggravated the geo-environmental balance. On the other hand, in some internal parts of our country, for example the Apennines, the abandonment of the territories caused the lack of ordinary maintenance and, therefore, the maintenance of the terraces, the cleaning of the canals, the minor water network, the consolidation and the planting have failed. Evaluating the dynamics of the scenario compared to the picture of areas already classified at high hydrogeological risk, in the next decade, it is therefore possible to predict a worsening, an increase in the general situation. It is therefore of primary importance to activate operations to secure fragile contexts and to determine a certain control, monitoring, a reduction of impacts and the security of the territories, opening the way to the economy of the future, in which a new evolutionary paradigm will be necessary no longer invoked for mere development, although declared sustainable, oxymoron now irreconcilable, and must necessarily assume a central role a new evolutionary model. According to the first relationship ANCE-CRESME "The state of the Italian territory 2012", the costs of the lack of prevention are of 3,5 billion euros per year. If we want to put together all the costs, even those of earthquakes, landslides and floods from 1944 to 2012, we reach €242.5 billion. Instead, from 1991 to 2011 we have allocated about 500 million a year. The calls for tenders for works of accommodation and prevention in relation to the entire public works market amount to 5% per number of interventions and only to 2% per amount in competition. The commissioners of recent years have only very modestly changed the course: it is still too little, definitely not enough. The latest report says that 82% of municipalities are exposed to hydrogeological risk and more than 5 and 700,000 million citizens live in a potential danger area. Nearly 2,000 episodes of failure have occurred since 2002. 2013 scored the record of 351 events. In January 2014, in just 23 days, the date of the last survey, 110 episodes were recorded throughout the Italian territory. In our resolution yesterday, the government is asked to commit itself to predicting the breakdown from the calculation of the 3% threshold of the deficit-GDP ratio of expenditure on the prevention of seismic and hydrogeological risk. In short, it would mean spending 40 billion on preventive measures to avoid paying off 120 billion of them to a disaster! [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]] This measure, however insufficient, is necessary and specific for a territory in need, so the State was not parked in terms of decrees, but certainly too parked in resources; resources that would have been necessary and urgent to recover an economically driving territory for the entire country. For this reason, as the 5 Star Movement, here in the Senate we have decided not to table amendments, given the urgency of the approval and the forthcoming deadlines for the payment of loans for corporate taxes. It is clear and recognized by all, however, that the figure of 210 million made available by the decree and taken from the special accounts for the earthquake is not sufficient. That is why, due to the time of bureaucracy, most citizens and businesses have already had to put their savings in hand and have had to in debt or have closed or relocated. However, we recognize the importance, in the decree-law, of the changes made to the Chamber's Environment Commission also by our Group, which are essential to provide compensation and to establish implementing procedures. Among the important points that have been reached are the amendments which provide for the prevention of hydraulic safety measures which are still reflected in cement castings; the rapporteur's amendment to finance monitoring networks that are useful for predicting calamitous events, as well as for preventing reconstruction in areas at risk; we also liked the Emergency Fund and measures for farms. It has been obtained that there was clarity on the planned instalments for the loans of earthquake-stricken companies relating to the return of taxes and the annual suspension, even if we would have liked it to be at least biennial. Another important step forward was the exclusion, for the years 2014-2015, from the Internal Stability Pact of the expenses incurred by the municipalities. We asked the House to approve the free zone: we had to settle for an agenda. However, we are pleased with the adoption of the Ferraresi amendment, which refers loans to houses that cannot be opened up, with the biggest interests recognised as a tax credit. We have retabled the agenda, which has already been presented and passed to the House, with regard to buildings classified in Class A, because we believe it to be an indisputable measure of justice. We were surprised that the agendas for greater transparency have not passed. We will continue to keep our attention high and to work to overcome the many obstacles that still prevent a reconstruction respectful of the people and the enterprises affected, so that we can say that we have come out of the emergency having done everything possible to bring back that serenity that, due to the earthquake, the flood and the trumpets of air, many have lost. We shall therefore vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u83	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I immediately voted in favour of this measure. However, beyond the expression of the vote in favour, I cannot and do not want to avoid some notations, which will be partly praiseworthy and partly critical. Of course this figure has been noted: it emerged from the examination carried out in the Chamber, in the Commission and in the Chamber, which had, unlike what happened in the Senate, the opportunity to amend, and I must also say to improve, taking into account various suggestions from the different parliamentary groups, the text of this measure: a bill of conversion of decree-law. Here, the positive notation of improvement took place in the Chamber and of proof of the improvement by the Senate, cannot but be accompanied by a critical notation. Regardless of the content (on which, if I will be allowed by the time, later I will dwell), on this we cannot fail to note how, once again, the duplicity with respect to the legislative modalities of management of urgency/emergency manifests itself according to the various governmental suggestions. Several times we have felt reproached - in this case, I am speaking of the Government of which I am honoured to have been a component - for the excessive use of urgent decrees to manage emerging, catastrophic, alluvial and seismic events: exactly those that represent the object of this measure. We have heard reproaches for the excessive, even disorganised - we have been told - use of police agencies. Well, also in this case (the notation is not so much on the method of application of these instruments, but on the previous contestation, at the expense of the previous governments, of the same modality), these instruments have been used. They have been used, we think, appropriately (and, where there will be criticisms, I will show them in the following), since this opportunity for employment cannot but be accompanied - and it seems to me that this has also emerged from the speeches of my previous colleagues - by a powerful preventive activity, whose characteristics and foundations seem to me that this measure is still lacking or not sufficiently provided. With regard to the object (reserved, of course, to hand over the written intervention if I could not complete it), I would not want to entertain in excess the contents of the measure itself, which certainly have the advantage of guaranteeing a continuity of the presence of the State in a territory that, over two years, has been vexed and martyred by two catastrophic events that have heavily vulnered its economic and social characteristics. In fact, two years after the catastrophe that struck Emilia-Romagna (I speak of the earthquakes of 20 and 29 May 2012 and, subsequently, of the flood of the river Secchia and the flood of Modenese), certainly many things still remain to be done. The merit of this decree is to enable a commissioner's management to do everything possible through the presence of the State but also through the use of a powerful activity of volunteering and social solidarity through donations that cannot be ignored. We must also remember that the subject of catastrophic events and the necessary prevention that, as I said, has been highlighted several times in this debate and also in the debate of the House, cannot be ignored by these Assemblies, especially because in us it is still too much alive the memory of the 29 people who lost their lives in the Emilia-Romagna earthquake. They are certainly not the only ones - alas - who unfortunately lost their lives in catastrophic events and we would not want to create - unfortunately there is an Italian tendency to do so - catastrophic events of series A and series B depending on the mode of management. 390 people were injured, moreover, in an area which, as previous speakers have rightly pointed out, represented and must return to represent 2% of Italian gross domestic product. This gives the measure of how important it is - and in this sense we stand firm in our vote in favour of a measure which, in any case, goes in this direction - to put in place all the necessary instruments for this to happen as quickly as possible. We cannot forget (for this reason I was talking about a social fabric that must be valued) that, from the first day after the earthquake - I am talking about two years ago - and also during the recent flood, the citizens of Emilia immediately rolled up their sleeves and, with the support of the work of the mayors, the civil protection, the public administration and the thousands of volunteers who committed themselves on all the territories coming from all the territories, managed to reactivate the entrepreneurial activities with such speed that after two months from the earthquake already two out of three companies were spontaneously reactivated, perhaps not immediately under regime but already able to start a sufficiently productive activity. We must remember, since the content of this measure also concerns the redundancy fund by way of derogation, that very often employees, workers and workers of companies that have suffered the damage and devastation of the earthquake, have rejected the Cassa Integrazione in order to continue to work, trying to raise the productive levels that represent prosperity for the Emilia-Romagna territory but also for the whole country, because the earthquake and alluvial events have not only concerned Emilia-Romagna but the whole country, and trying to make this return in pristina of productivity happen in the fastest possible way: both workers and employers, united by the same effort, have tried to speed up the return to normality as much as possible. There is one point that he points out, that we liked and that we would have liked to be able to make further improvements to the text under consideration also in the passage to the Senate (unfortunately it was not possible, we realize it, but this is of course not a stigma to the rapporteur, whom we thank for the work he has done); we would have liked to do more: it is always said, but as a responsible opposition, in this case, we really would have wanted to do more. Beyond the Commissioner's management of which I have already said and with respect to which we conceptually have nothing against (and we regret that someone had something against when we activated it), in addition to what was already allocated by the State and managed by the Region, although with a certain slowness (unfortunately all of them will know that the Emilia-Romagna Region had some bureaucratic uncertainty in the management of the post earthquake payments and that there were problems also in the suspension of those contributory and tax burdens that instead were suspended in other places where the earthquake was managed differently), we like and it is important that financial interventions are planned (210 million euros broken down as already described by colleagues who have preceded me), especially in support of the agricultural companies that have been extremely vulnerated, touched both by seismic events and by subsequent alluvial events. We like the identification of cantierable projects entrusted to the President of the Region in coordination with the Commissioner delegated to the hydrogeological emergency. We like the exclusion from the Stability Pact, although perhaps more could be done, and we supported it by submitting our amendments to the Commission. We like the management of the ownership of loans related to destroyed or unactible buildings, and the possibility to request the suspension of the installments of the mortgages in existence with banks or intermediaries, because - let me say - it is not possible to suffer, in addition to the emerging damage, also the cessation profit of a catastrophic event. They are all useful interventions, which meet the needs of those who are first affected by these devastating and, unfortunately, unpredictable events, i.e. families, businesses, citizens, in order to allow them to resume as normal as possible their usual activities. Returning to the issue of prevention (let me make a broad reference to the text that I will hand over to the Presidency), the Emilia-Romagna Region has announced that it intends to launch a preventive strategic plan. We hope that this will be so, and it must be so, because the dominant theme of the state legislator must be precisely that of preventing hydrogeological risk. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the instruments and resources included in the measure we are voting on today certainly represent - it is always said, but it is true - a step forward for the region to return to pre-event social and economic levels and provide support which we hope will represent only part of the structural interventions to be allocated to Emilia-Romagna. We would have liked - and the rapporteur knows this - the scope of the measure was even wider. For all these reasons I confirm the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u84	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u87	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I will not repeat many things that have already been said. This is an extremely important measure, although we cannot fail to note what the commitment must be when we declare that our groups or ourselves are voting in favour of such a measure. It is commendable the efforts of this Government and Parliament, which intend to remedy the damage caused by the various natural disasters, in particular by enabling Emilia-Romagna to continue the work of reconstruction and to face the discomfort of the enterprises and populations of a region that represents 9% of GDP, which saw 3,500 sheds and plants collapsed, the death of 15 workers and the emergence of less than 20,000 jobs, all in thirty seconds for an earthquake just above the fifth grade of the Richter scale. But the reflection that we have to make here for the future is more global, and he suggested that the House of Deputies make appropriate amendments to the text of the decree to implement the Fund. I refer to the EUR 147 billion that Italy has spent in forty years to deal with the damage caused by natural disasters, and in particular earthquakes. There is talk of EUR 3.4 billion to repair this damage net of the incalculable value of the destruction of artistic, cultural and archaeological sites. Virtually more than 2% of our GDP is volatile every year because the territory and the environment have not been sufficiently secured and a management policy has been launched to prevent such damage. To this figure of EUR 147 billion we must also add the war bulletin of these forty years represented by the number of victims of these phenomena. It can then be asked whether the money for the costs incurred by the State to remedy the calamitous events cannot be used differently in the prevention with the works of safety of the buildings most at risk and, at the same time, through the preparation of rules updated to the most recent technical discoveries; and this also applies in the planning of the territory and in the hydrogeological defense. Other countries, such as Japan or California, have succeeded in significantly reducing the risks linked to natural disasters. We do not understand why Italy, which has long mapped its territory and which has an ancient history with regard to these phenomena, although having technical skills and certainly having developed suitable solutions from the point of view of research, does not succeed in translating them into facts. Probably the fragmentation of the decision-making moments and the fragmentation of the resources, therefore their dispersion, did not allow us to fulfill as we would have had to our duties towards the security of our territory. Therefore, declaring the Group of Civic Choices' vote in favour of this decree, we can only accompany it with the hope that finally there will be legislative, structural and administrative interventions in order to be able to secure our territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u90	Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, with the measure that we are about to vote on today, important measures are launched which respond more effectively to the demand for attention of the people of Emilia-Romagna, hit by the 2012 earthquake and subsequent natural disasters that have struck the region, and respond to the cry of pain of many local administrators who have fought with passion and competence to restore normality in their territories. This is the first measure; a small step to tackle, even in a systemic way, emergencies. I am referring in fact to one of the most qualifying points of this decree: having given full operation, for the current year, to the National Emergency Fund established by Law No 225 of 1992 in the field of civil protection. I would like to stress that the new resources that will flow into the Fund, about 100 million euros, will guarantee the complete financing of all the emergencies that have occurred in the last two years and that have involved different regions of our country. We finally have the opportunity to give a concrete answer to the many people who have lost everything in the last year (the house, their activity) and who have been waiting for a state intervention for a long time - too long -. In particular, I would like to remind you that months ago, through an urgent questioning, we asked the Government what had happened to the money allocated under the last law of stability for the territories affected by calamitous events. Well, this measure also unlocks these resources, which have been at the MEF for months, in order to bring them into the Emergency Fund. I believe that it is necessary, in the next measure that we are going to analyse in this Chamber about the failure, to improve this aspect with regard to the interrelationship between the State, the Regions and the local authorities for the financing of these works. Another very important fact for the regions, in my opinion, is the recognition in the regional budgets of the money allocated for calamitous events that took place until 2002 and will not be spent, which will be re-used on any new extraordinary events. Colleagues, let me say this: I have experienced firsthand, as mayor, the consequences that a natural disaster causes on the territory: I am sure that these measures will help the communities affected by recent events to regain a minimum of trust in the institutions and a hope of recovery. In my view, important interventions have also been envisaged in terms of prevention. I am referring to the provision that ensures adequate resources, about 6 million euros, to the national weather risk alert system and 50 million euros, of 210 euros, intended for extraordinary maintenance of the hydraulic node in Modena, some of which are already being started. Resources, these, which will not be additional for the State - as the rapporteur has explained very well - as they will be charged on the Fund established by Decree No. 74 of 2012, after the earthquake in Emilia. We all know - we have said this - that this measure is not decisive; however, it is an important step towards a framework law on emergencies, which our country has long, too long been waiting for. In fact, as it emerged last week during a seminar on the environment and climate organized by the Group of the Democratic Party, these weather phenomena so devastating for our territory are nothing more than the effects produced by climate change, not only future but already in place. For decades now human activities have clearly interfered with the planet's environmental balance. Within the national strategy for adapting to climate change, in addition to resources and rules, it is necessary to start a reform of governance: this is the main demand that has emerged from several quarters. Clarity of the tasks and roles of technical and scientific bodies, the elimination of overlap of competences and greater fundamental coordination between local authorities, regions and the state in planning on certain strategic macro-sectors are needed. The Government is making a first valuable contribution in this regard, as the rapporteur has pointed out, on the mission structure against hydrogeological failure, with a reorganization in the relationship between the state and the local authorities system and through a first very important legislative measure with which the use of the structural funds is planned for the next seven years, which will be complemented by as many state measures of prevention from hydrogeological risk. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that every weather event is a war bulletin, and the legislator is always forced to chase and never, or almost never, manages to put serious prevention policies in the field. If we do not take serious measures, we will have an increase, especially in the Mediterranean area, in extreme climate phenomena, which will have a negative impact on agriculture, food security, biodiversity and, above all, on the security and protection of the territory and citizens. As the latest IPCC report tells us, 2014 and 2015 will be crucial years for the global fight against global warming. This year, in fact, the European Union is committed to approving the new targets binding on 2030 for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the promotion of renewable sources and energy efficiency. The Italian Presidency can be a great opportunity to meet the challenge of climate change and for the adoption of more stringent targets for 2030, such as the reduction of emissions to 40% of CO2 and the achievement of 27% of energy produced from renewable sources. All this will involve the adoption of new cultural and political models, first at European and then at national, regional and local level. I therefore hope that as soon as possible our country will put in place a national strategy of adaptation to climate change and for the prevention of hydrogeological failure, which will be the driving force behind even more ambitious Community policies. A set of actions and guidelines that can cope with impacts and minimise risks for citizens and businesses, starting from the most vulnerable areas of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the costs of inaction could prove to be dramatically high and, even more so, they could fall irreversibly on the new generations. This measure and the one approved two weeks ago (which will arrive in the Senate next week and which provides, among other things, the release of the funds of special accounts and stronger powers for the commissioners general) are important, but fragmented, and chase, as always, problems arising from emergencies. As has been hoped for by several parties and as I am doing together with my colleague Senator Vaccari, whom I thank for the excellent work done on this measure, together with the whole of the Environment Commission, we must work on a framework law on natural disasters that puts so many measures in place. There are provisions already in place, such as those of Senator Amati and Senator Valentini and other measures by other colleagues. We must try to put all this into order, with a method that marries a prevention policy and protects our soil in all its specificities. I believe that, with respect to the issues that have emerged, recalled by Senator Uras and other senators, on the inequality of treatment (it certainly does not apply to Emilia-Romagna, because Senator Vaccari explained well the sequence of misfortunes that has suffered that territory), a framework law could be really much fairer, even in the allocation of economic resources. And I believe that something more could be done for Sardinia - let me say, Secretary-General. I believe that this is the time to address this issue: Minister Franceschini has mentioned it, and it is important that the Senate tackle it. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in many years as a local administrator, but especially during this parliamentary term, I have been able to ascertain and evaluate significantly the contribution that research bodies, universities and scientists can make on these very delicate issues: climate, hydrogeological failure and soil protection. Precious contributions that do not evoke catastrophes, but lead us to reason and understand better; they lead us to reflect and contain that area of scepticism that for various issues also infects politics; valuable contributions, which put the political decision-maker in the condition of being able to act best. The world of research and politics must really be able to work together to ensure a better future for the planet and its children. To take this challenge means to open concrete spaces to reason and hope. It is with these wishes that I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u93	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I would like to add my signature, as previously announced by Senator Puglia, to the agenda for G103. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u96	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u97	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD groups and Senators Campanella and Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u98	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1326, 211, 558 and 1309. The rapporteur, Senator Tonini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u99	Madam President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we are examining a draft law for the reform of development cooperation legislation. This is a long-awaited reform. There is a lot of legislation, and it could be said that only constitutional reforms have had a longer time... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u100	Could you allow the rapporteur, Mr Tonini, to speak, perhaps by quietly leaving the Chamber? TONINI, rapporteur. I am old-fashioned and I know how this House passage works. I was saying: only constitutional reforms have probably had a longer, more tiring and troubled process. It is an iter, that of this reform, also widely shared: to say bipartisan is perhaps little, in the sense that all the political parties have been involved in the past legislatures, and also in this short-term legislature. Therefore, when we come to the House, it is right - I believe - to make a minimum of memory of this long journey that has gone through the years and the legislatures. Moreover, we are talking about the reform of a law, No. 49 of 1987, which is an excellent law, which over time has also given good proof of itself and which, however, for a long time, calls for a strong updating and incisive renewal in order to put the institutional instruments of our country in the field of development cooperation able to meet the new challenges that our time presents us. I am thinking, in particular, of the most important and decisive question, namely what the face of the world is like in our time compared to what it was 27 years ago (so many are the years that Law No. 49). In 1987 the world was still divided into three: it was said, in an approximate and certainly somewhat brief manner, that there was a first world represented by the West, a second world represented by the Soviet bloc and a third way for which we spoke, using a virtually indistinct category, of the so-called developing countries, which was a euphemism to define the poor, impoverished countries, often at that time on the path of impoverishment rather than development. Today the picture has radically changed: the second world as such no longer exists, as the Soviet bloc no longer exists. The West retains its great strength; but the novelty of our time is what Fareed Zakaria, a famous American journalist and scholar, calls "the rise of the rest," that is, growth, appearance, the emergence of the rest of the world. What was once the third world today is a so-called emerging world, actually largely emerged, made up of great economic, political and even military powers. Let's think about the famous BRICS countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), and then the many other countries that are becoming medium and great powers, not only regional, but often global. In this context, talking about development cooperation has, of course, a completely new meaning. If, therefore, a vision with a paternalistic component prevailed in the past (there was the developed world that helped, almost more in moral sense than in political sense, to the many submerged and the many losers of humanity), today the situation is completely different. Really one can imagine a co-operation, therefore on an absolutely equal basis, between parts of the world that share, for one verse, the search for development, for another towards internal poverty, because of course there is a poverty within the developed countries, within the first world, and there are very strong inequalities in countries that are really, this time, developing or even running towards development. Therefore, the first fundamental point from the point of view of the approach is that we must move to a truly cooperative vision, which has as a fundamental cultural category that of the partnership. The other great element of novelty compared to the past, compared to 27 years ago, is the fact that we are in the presence of a complex world of organisations that preside over the theme of development cooperation. While 27 years ago there were few pioneering initiatives on the part of some countries, mainly European, today we are in the presence of a system that heads, in a verse, the United Nations and the financial institutions of Washington (think of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund), therefore the whole UN system; On the other hand, there is the OECD, in particular with its OECD-DAC (Development Assistance Committee), the Development Cooperation Directorate, which has developed a very complex system of comparative assessments between the different cooperation systems. For us there is above all the European Union, this giant protagonist on the stage of development cooperation (the first major global co-operator is the European Union), which is developing an increasingly intense and active initiative on this front. This complex system forces us to find a way to be within it, to connect us in a virtuous way, to have therefore a national system that is part of a wider system at international, global and above all European level. Hence the long-standing need for reform; a need which is further reinforced by a reflection which we must make quickly, but which is necessary, on what Italy has been doing for 27 years in the field of development cooperation. We could briefly say that at the moment Italy spends little and badly on development cooperation in relation to the commitments freely undertaken at international level (so it is a little relative and not absolute: that is, with respect to the commitments we have made we spend too little). By 2015 we are committed by international agreements to reach 0.7% of our gross domestic product to be allocated to cooperation, instead we are at 0.2. You understand therefore that there is a gap between the commitments made and what we have been able to maintain in these years, with the varying governments and of course with different sensibilities and responsibilities. However, there is a national trend that is absolutely unsatisfactory. In any case, the most important aspect is that we are spending badly, because this 0.2%, which is however two tenths of a point of gross domestic product (i.e. around three billion euros), is dispersed in a thousand streams, with a very modest and lacking political intentionality. The bilateral part, managed directly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is now a small fraction of this cake; the rest consists mainly of contributions to multilateral organizations such as those I mentioned before (from the onusian ones, to the banks born from the Bretton Woods agreements, to the European ones), which see a substantial passivity of Italy in defining the guidelines and strategic lines of these bodies, therefore with a very low political intentionality. Then there is the Italian phenomenon of the fragmentation of the protagonists: I am referring to those of the individual ministries, each of which has a component of development cooperation that struggles to make system at the level of government, not to mention the forest of hundreds or thousands of initiatives by the Regions, the Provinces (as long as there are), the local authorities and the municipalities. It is a positive forest in itself, because it gives the idea of a great wealth spread in our country, but, as often happens in Italy, it is a disordered wealth. All this therefore gives the idea of a commitment, of an effort that however exists in our country and gives the sense of its presence, of its international projection and of its protagonism within development cooperation. In fact, although we are not fulfilling our commitments, we are still one of the great contributors, although with this level of political intentionality, coordination and therefore critical mass so unsatisfactory. That is why we have been calling for reform for some time now. Parliament, in particular the Senate, is engaged by various legislators in this direction. I would like to recall, in order not to go further back, the great work carried out in the fourteenth legislature by Senator Fiorello Provera, of the North League, then President of the Foreign Commission of the Senate, who had the merit of opening a road and then in the next legislature, the XV, the short legislature of the Government Prodi, the commitment of the Government: for the first time a Government of the Republic has presented its own bill; I refer to the proposal signed by Prodi and D'Alema, also with Minister Padoa-Schioppa and with an important contribution from the Deputy Minister Sentinelli. That government proposal then gave rise to a bipartisan unified text, which I had the honour to coordinate with my colleague Alfredo Mantica, who has been an absolute protagonist in recent years in drawing up this reform in this branch of Parliament. The text Mantica-Tonini was then refined and re-presented during the last legislature, in which the Government of President Monti, present here, certainly played a fundamental role in re-launching attention on the topic of development cooperation, thanks to the fundamental role of Minister Riccardi, who put this topic in the foreground in the politics of the Government. We worked, with Senator Mantica, to finish this text, but then the end of the legislature also made that attempt not lucky in the outcome. That text was re-presented by me in this legislature and saw first the Led Government and then the Renzi Government fully undertake these commitments, presenting a bill that is the basic text on which we compare. The sense of this bill, as subsequently modified in a significant way during the work of the Commission, is first of all to give political intentionality to Italy's efforts and, in a way, to assume the objective of being part of our commitments. One of the last articles of the bill contains a precise commitment, even if diluted over time, for the Governments of the coming years, for a progressive return of Italy to the tracks of the programmatic commitments assumed. We will certainly not be fulfilling the 0.7% of GDP target next year, in 2015, but with this law we commit the Government and those that will happen in the coming years to define a return horizon in the parameters of international commitments. This is a significant first point, but then the bulk of the law is obviously the construction of an institutional structure, in intentions as slim and as efficient as possible, but also the most incisive, which gives unity, coordination and political intentionality to our choices in the field of development cooperation. There has been a long debate over the last few years in the country about where this directing booth should be placed. There are in particular two schools of thought: on the one hand there were those who thought it best to place it in the Presidency of the Council, with the figure of a Minister for Cooperation, certainly with all the advantages of being next to the figure of the President of the Council, but also with the risk of dualism with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now, as always in these things, there is no good or evil on either side, but one must choose between two solutions, each of which has advantages and disadvantages. And in the end, secularly, the choice fell on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in fact is qualified as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, to indicate that this competence is not residual, but central in its attributions. Our foreign policy will have as a qualifying element development cooperation, and it could not be otherwise for a country that is at the center of the Mediterranean and the borders with Africa. In the geopolitical area around us it is clear that development cooperation is not simply a moral duty we have towards the less prosperous part of humanity, but it is much more: it is a political instrument and an essential lever to make politics in an area of the world like the Mediterranean and on the borders with the Middle East and Africa (as is the case with Italy). The director is the Foreign Minister, who will necessarily use a Deputy Minister. This is a strong decision that the Commission has taken by taking up the legislative proposals that we had drawn up in the past. What is currently a faculty in legislation becomes an obligation to appoint a Deputy Minister, who in turn will have two arms: the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation (which currently already exists in the Ministry and which is redirected to his own profession, which is the very important and fundamental one, to assist the Government in the political-diplomatic part of development cooperation related, for example, to the Treaties with countries to give rise to cooperation projects) and a new agency to which is entrusted the technical task of presiding over these projects. Of course, at a time of spending review, we know that we need to close institutions rather than multiply them. Our concern and, almost, obsession was to make it as light and slender as possible. It has very limited and limited costs and will have to gain credibility in the field also through its efficiency. This is roughly the implant and the sense of this passage so important. I would particularly like to thank, on one side, the political groups which in the Commission have given rise to a very broad and out-of-the-box debate - there have been no majority and opposition because we have worked together in a very constructive spirit, to the point that the outcome of the Commission's referent phase has been very broadly united, not to say unanimous - and, on the other hand, the whole world of cooperation, which has worked actively with Parliament over the years and, in particular, with the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, providing an irreplaceable contribution of ideas, proposals and technical expertise as well. I am referring to universities, local authorities, regions, up to the vast and very rich world, in terms of values, principles and moral energies, non-governmental organizations, whose contribution has been essential in progressively refining this proposal which we are now submitting to the opinion of the Senate House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u101	[[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u102	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u103	Madam President, the rapporteur has just updated us. He said it was a widely shared and important job. It is a bill that goes to update an old legislation. The problem, however, is not in its old age, but in the fact that it concerns a world that has profoundly changed in these thirty years. Beyond the interest I feel in this House at the moment, I think it is important to stress that this measure really affects a very large number of people for the many issues that have been addressed. It deeply affects a non-negligible and accessory aspect of our policy. It concerns economic and social policies and Italy's way of presenting itself, and has a pervasive capacity in a number of highly articulated areas. I would now like to make a few comments on the day of our work today: we are discussing a draft law which, as the rapporteur said, exists and which we have been calling for discussion since we entered the Foreign Commission, so we are talking about May or June last year. It is a draft law that was already ready and could therefore have been discussed immediately, while it was expected for long months that the Government would present its own. Here, I would like to make a comment on this: this morning we adopted an organic decree-law which presented the guarantee characteristics laid down in the Constitution, namely necessity and urgency, and which was quickly adopted, to the extent that the timetable for today and tomorrow could be resolved in one morning. This timetable included a long-standing draft law, which could have been discussed some time ago, and a decree-law which presented the above requirements. I would therefore like to share the following reflection with the few left: I no longer want to be told with impunity - and I would like the Italians to know this - that the progress of the work of the two Chambers, namely the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, has slowed down for the reasons of structure provided for in the Constitution, because instead the problem lies in something else. The progress of the work has been slowed down by the fact that, when we are faced with non-homogeneous decrees, the work in the Commission and in the Chamber is nailed down, in the desperate attempt to bring back everything that is not possible to discuss organically in our Commissions in the form of a bill. This is proof of this today: we waited more than a year to see something discussed that could have been discussed a year ago. This relates - I want to say it publicly - to a sort of contempt for these institutions, in particular the Senate, which yesterday - and I honestly cannot fail to stress this - was also pointed out by the indifference with which the President of the Council approached our debate and, in particular, by his absence in response - due to the reasons we know - and by the lack of it, which I find truly singular. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Airola.]] Although I do not want to make comparisons, as a teacher of history as they are, this story reminds me, however, Caligula: indeed, worse still, I would not want, given the excess of contempt, in this Senate, instead of a horse, to be appointed senator even a donkey. I believe that, as I often say to my fellow teachers, the workers themselves must be the first to respect the work. I therefore hope that this Senate and the senators will have the dignity for the immediate future to call out loud and demand respect for the work that is being done in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]] On the substance, I agree with the commendable words of the rapporteur, Mr Tonini, and I agree with his vision: what is important in this law is above all to take back the unified idea of cooperation and to overcome the fragmentation that was mentioned. However, we cannot forget that this is also a structural and organic element of the history of cooperation, which is born on the territories for many community initiatives that are activated in the face of the need to be solidarity with populations willing to share the fruit of their progress with those who have given so much in terms of raw materials and have the right to have their own development. It is something organic to this national individualistic tendency. I really hope that with this bill we can oppose this fragmentation and the use of money for cooperation which, as has often been denounced by the press, is not always spent properly. So let's create an agency. I'd like to hear another agency. I tend to believe that duplication and the creation of new agencies can be a dangerous instrument. We hope that this will truly correspond to the needs of compactness, efficiency, measurement of the usefulness and impact of the interventions in continuous monitoring, and that it will not only serve to fire projects, without verifying their continuity. Such an agency should also be the guarantee for the correctness of the operations and for the professionalism of all the involved interlocutors. I hope that this will also be an incentive to make the most of the new skills and new young people that in the new types of university training can certainly create the stimulus, preparation and professionalism we need. I would, however, like to make a remark: I do not like the change of names, because often in our country it has translated into a cattopardesco approach, in which names are changed and not contents. In particular, I find that the change of the name from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation is undoubtedly based on the need to give international cooperation an important position, but at the same time it can also be symbolic of something that, in fact, does not benefit the idea that the rapporteur, Mr Tonini, also said a moment ago about what we mean by international cooperation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs carries out that activity of promotion and international relations that is also based on international cooperation and, as it is based on international cooperation, is based on those other legs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that are the promotion of Italian language and culture abroad, the promotion of Italian products abroad and the relations between old migrants and new migrants with the country of origin. This in all dimensions, not only at the moment of need, but also at the moment of growth, creation and the affirmation of competences, at the moment when we must safeguard what is not only and not so much made in Italy, but what is done by Italians. What is done by Italians is in fact a figure that Italians who go abroad bring with them. It is a figure that has to do with a culture that is deeply rooted in a binomial, that we cannot separate, that is given by our territory and the culture that has been created on it. I would not like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - which I would like to be able to continue to call in this way, but the amendments I have tabled in this respect have not been accepted - to continue to use all those reasons why the Agency was created, but not to give in on the principle that international cooperation is not only, as unfortunately many think, aid of an economic nature or in terms of know-how for productive sectors, but it is also something else. In this regard, I would like to cite an example that has personally involved me. In Rome there is the headquarters of the Global Center that deals in particular with e-Parliament. It is concerned with building computer skills that are not simply related to the computer tools used, but are something more because they are linked to the construction of a way of managing representation. This starts from the assumption that the new technology must have the task of making the relationship between institutions easier, more accessible, more useful and stronger, between the places where laws are produced and those who live by these laws and see their lives regulated by these laws. This activity was financed by cooperation. Then you see that, when we talk about cooperation, we are talking about something that has a very political root, which has to do with a support that is given through these structures, especially to the parliaments of the new nations that are being built. It is given precisely to ensure that these nations have an up-to-date way and a capacity to build a strong democracy. I mentioned this because, in this, Italy is excellence. Italy, in particular the Services of the Italian Senate, is excellence, and it is truly sorry to see that what are our excellences, even in terms of support for cooperation, are not valued. Nemo Propheta at home, perhaps, but what I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also to govern the promotion of our excellence in all areas of cooperation. I think this is a challenge: I think it's a big challenge to start an agency, a big challenge to overcome history and to get up to date with a changing world. However, I believe that this is also the challenge of Italy, which must be put in a clear and decisive way in its foreign policy, enhancing those aspects on which it can really base an incisive foreign policy. Otherwise, we will be cut off, however disappointed in the prospect of counting something on the international scene. We will stay out if we are not able to see what the qualities and abilities of our country are, that we are recognized all over the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u104	Since there are several requests for comments on items not included on the agenda, given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u107	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to address you and the Presidency of this House to ask for an urgent answer to a question that I tabled on 10 June: I am referring to Question 3 01023, addressed to the Minister of Justice, Andrea Orlando. The question asks the Minister in relation to the Stamina issue. Just yesterday another court - that of Catania - issued a new order to have children (i.e. minors), with two serious and different diseases, the alleged treatment of Stamina. This order comes after that of the last week of the court of Venice, in the same direction, and after that of the week before the court of Pesaro, who even appointed commissioner to acta a doctor who should therefore have acted on this treatment. Only that this doctor is also investigated for those same facts; indeed, he is sent back to trial by another prosecutor, that of Turin. All these interventions by the courts happen to about 500 others, two thirds of which they have issued - precisely - orders for the administration of these preparations which - I remind this House - have nothing to do with science, medicine, stem cells and, much less, compassion. I therefore ask the Minister, in particular, what urgent initiatives he intends to take within the framework of his specific powers, in order to avoid this, which seems to me to be a judicial stylicide, also in order to avoid the repetition of initiatives such as those initiated by the Pesaro Court. Just yesterday the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice - I read it from the press - announced that it had started a preliminary inspection to see what were the elements for the Minister's competence in the Stamina case. I appeal to the Minister to make it quick, so that he exercises all his prerogatives, not only in relation to the specific decision of the Pesaro court, but also so that he can have a general orientation, obviously in agreement with the public statements of Minister Lorenzin, which were numerous. This is in the context of the exercise of its autonomy and independence in order to affirm the need for jurisdiction to stop in the face of the evidence of science and medicine, or rather, in this case, the lack of evidence of science and medicine. Perhaps it would also be necessary to bring the Minister's consideration to the fact that, perhaps, ordering the administration of unknown, unqualifiable and therefore dangerous medicines comes out of the field of the judge's magisterium, unless it constitutes a substantial co-responsibility of a practice which, of course, is a scam. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, M5S, SCPI and PI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u108	The Presidency will represent your request to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u111	ALBERTINI (NCD). Madam President, I am reading a letter dated 28 May 2014 from the President of the Republic who is related to the speech I intend to make. Dear Senator Albertini, I was informed of your parliamentary question submitted on 29 January 2014 referring to the circumstances covered by a detailed statement relating to the conduct attributed to Dr Alfredo Robledo, Deputy Prosecutor at the Milan Public Prosecutor's Office, sent to the Attorney General at the Court of Cassation. As far as I am aware, the exposition is under examination by the General Prosecutor of the Supreme Court in the investigation phase, while the CSM, also the recipient of the exposition, has examined the events denounced and, following a wide delibation of the circumstances represented, has considered to signal them to the owners of the disciplinary action. On the other hand, I can only regret the failure to answer your parliamentary question, which I believe deserves particular attention from the Minister of Justice. In wishing me a prompt examination of the facts you have presented by the competent bodies, I cordially greet you. I prevented this letter, together with a second question dated 10 June, from the Head of Cabinet of the Minister of Justice, and finally received, on 18 June, the answer to this question which had been forwarded even on 22 October 2012 to Minister Severino and had crossed the institutional path of three Ministers. In this reply, I am surprised that, in the absence of any response to Senator Albertini's complaints, which could justify the existence of specific disciplinary cases, I have adhered to the proposal to dismiss the practice prevented by the competent ministerial bodies. Of course, I will not fail to follow closely any developments in the matter which may arise from the further assessments to be carried out by the Prosecutor General at the Court of Cassation, to which the CSM, at its meeting on 21 May, had transmitted the documents as far as possible competence in relation to the profiles of disciplinary importance relating to the delay in the transmission of the procedure of the Prosecutor of Monza by Dr. Robledo. There is no evidence in this communication, no one at all. I have tabled a text, which I ask the Presidency to be able to attach to the report of the sitting, where I regularly counter-deduce complaining about the absence of any in-depth discussion, the discussion of texts, independent assessments of the defences presented by the magistrate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u112	Senator Albertini, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the documentation so that it is attached to the Minutes of the sitting, but I believe - we also mentioned this - that the most appropriate instrument is the presentation by you of a further question, this time in an oral answer, with the possibility of replying to the question, so that you can publicly represent all your arguments in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u115	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking briefly because since last week the most important newspapers have been talking to us about L'Aquila, for further investigations into post-sysm reconstruction. It is still an open wound, a system of evil worse than the earthquake, which honest eagle citizens continue to suffer from the resounding delays of justice. Also this morning there was news of the arrest of seven entrepreneurs affiliated to the clan of the Casalesi, engaged in the private reconstruction post earthquake. The umpteenth demonstration of the presence of a system that in recent years has splintered the funds of the reconstruction, having them managed to enterprises connected to large criminal organizations. But the evil at the Eagle represents a bottomless well. Yesterday there was a request for referral to trial for the political officials involved in the investigation of the do ut des on shores, including the former deputy mayor of L'Aquila Roberto Riga. Last week the prosecutors had highlighted the presence of a real business committee in the reconstruction of cultural and ecclesiastical assets, worth 700 million euros. Among the subjects involved are the official of the MiBAC and three entrepreneurs, as well as the former deputy commissioner for the reconstruction and right-hand man of Bertolaso, Luciano Marchetti, autonomous director of the works for the reconstruction of the Church of the Holy Souls two days before leaving the position of commissioner. He was responsible for the post earthquake function for years and he was the one who did not include the eighteenth-century Lauretan Church in the report on the protection of cultural heritage. It is therefore still a work to be clarified. These are very serious facts, Madam President, which make it even more urgent to schedule, without further delay, Document XXII, No 5, by my signature, which intends to set up a committee of inquiry, which has been assigned to the Environment Commission for more than a year and which has been repeatedly called upon by the Group Leader, as I have been asked for. This Commission is inescapable to ascertain the political responsibilities of these years. Marchetti, among other things, is also the one who, as regional director for the cultural heritage of Lazio, has made life easy for Caltagirone, allowing him to violate all the landscape constraints in the area of Tor Chiesaccia, an area of very high historical importance, despite the architect Gnarra, responsible for the Superintendence area, had requested with an investigation to suspend the concessions granted to the Caltagirone group. In this respect, I would also like to ask the answer to question 3-00027.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u118	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the Presidency and the House some aspects related to the society that deals with the management and construction of works related to the passerby of Mestre, the CAV, constituted in 2008, which has taken on a debt of more than EUR 1.3 billion. The project and some of the companies most involved in the construction and the turnover of the sub-contracts are the subject of an investigation by the judiciary of Venice, which in February 2013 led to the arrest of four people suspected of being involved in the case, including Piergiorgio Baita, former CEO of Mantovani SpA. Innumerable were the occasions when committees and groups of citizens engaged in the territory publicly and openly denounced the opacity of the political and business system established by the potentates who for twenty years governed the Veneto Region. Opacity in procedures, procurement, management of public works and economic resources. On this, among other things, our Group had tabled a question to which no answer has yet been given (the 4-00756). I would like to take this opportunity to ask for an answer. In April 2013, following ongoing investigations and following the first arrests, the Deposit and Loan Fund, against a commission of €8.5 million, intermediated the transfer of a loan of €350 million to the CAV to refinance the debt derived from the construction of the passerby of Mestre, loan granted by the European Investment Bank. At the same time, a further loan was paid to CAV directly by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, for a sum of €73.5 million. Finally, an article published in May last on "Il Gazzettino" announces that the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, together with the EIB, would be structuring the refinancing of CAV's debt to an amount of 700 million euros, facilitating the issuance of securities directly on the financial markets, in what is announced as the first Italian operation of European project bonds. I would like to make the Presidency aware of the need for the Government to come and report to the Government on the real state of the art and on the real intentions, consequences and determinations relating to the ongoing operations, as well as on the possibility, which we support, of freezing any procedure relating to the granting of public support in any form (see project bonds), to the CAV company until the conclusion of the judicial investigations. We believe that Parliament should be informed of this matter, possibly not of any action taken. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u121	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, on 9 April last, together with the other Majority Group Leaders in the Commission work, I submitted the question 4-02028, in which I noted that, although it had been established by the 2014 Stability Act, in Article 1, paragraph 215, a fund for active labour policies, however very small (15 million for 2014, compared with almost a billion allocated to passive policies), the regulation that should allow the activation of this fund should have been issued within 90 days, and that the deadline was unnecessarily short. I asked the Government for the reasons for this delay, calling for the adoption of this regulation, which is indispensable in order to initiate that experimentation of the new instruments of conjugation between active and passive labour policies, in particular of the relocation contract, which the majority, but not only the majority, today intends to place at the centre of the intervention subject to the draft law delegation in the matter of work. Since then, there has been no answer to the question. This, however, would not matter much: the problem is that another three months have passed and the regulation has not yet been enacted. I therefore ask the Senate Presidency to urge the Government to respond, in particular by making use of the opportunity to be offered on 3 July next by a question time that will see the Minister of Labour and Social Policy engaged. I would ask that this be the occasion when the Minister and the Government take a stand on this delay, and above all they give assurance that it will be exceeded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u122	Of course, Senator Ichino, you can reword your question at the Question Time. I am afraid that the delay you have indicated, however, is below the average delay in the adoption of legislative measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u125	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I am referring to a serious crime which has partly to do with Parliament. Specifically, I refer to an act of inspection union at my signature, the written answer question 4-201936, which traces a story dating back to the time of the previous general elections of 2008. With my previous question of 2010, the 3-01268, had been reported that from investigations that were being conducted at the Public Prosecutor of Reggio Calabria there emerged interceptions containing statements and references to activities of important political exponents and Aldo Micciché, entrepreneur sentenced in Italy to 25 years in prison for various crimes, but for years fugitive in Latin America, known to investigators as a man near the Calabrian clan Piromalli. The prosecutor of Reggio Calabria had collected these interceptions, resulting in a trial before the court of assizes of Palmi, and concerning a series of serious crimes in the area of Gioia Tauro. During the intercepts Miccichè would have claimed to have accomplished or, however, to be aware of the serious electoral frauds in North America and Latin America, in occasion of the general elections of 2008, aimed at conditioning the electoral results of the foreign constituency in those geographical areas. On this matter and on these votes was already presented an inspection act in 2010 and had been involved also the next Government. On 26 March 2014 this act of inspection union was again presented to similar content. Since nothing has been known anymore, the Minister of the Interior had been asked in the short way and we were informed by the Deputy Minister of the Interior that, on 12 June last, the Legislative Affairs Office of the Ministry of the Interior asked the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to reconsider the measure of delegation, as the subject dealt with would not fall within the specific powers of the administration of the interior. Since the question had been sent to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, we would like a reply from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers at this point to know who is responsible. But above all, after four years, we would like to have information on these very serious criminal events that have partly involved Parliament here as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u128	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, a special thank you for giving me the floor today. Ladies and gentlemen, the summer solstice saw the celebration of the Feast of Music, an event born in France and consolidated throughout Europe for decades to signify the founding values of musical expression and culture. How can we fail to remember, precisely on the eve of the Italian-led European Semester, the contribution of music to the definition of the principles and sentiments that inspired the European Union? Many initiatives have been planned on the national territory: I quote Rome in particular, transformed into a great stage for music, which gave voice to a great wealth of genres and repertoires. Precisely in relation to the European Music Festival, in these days the Senate hosted the meeting "Music in the middle of the forado" organized by Arci, Audiocoop and Amici della musica, in collaboration with other subjects, to take stock of legislative initiatives, as well as the topics to the attention of parliamentary committees related to the various actions of support to the production, use and musical formation. In fact, there are several proposals that go in this direction: from the collection of the proceeds of copyright, to the accreditation of music schools, to the incentives for youth creativity, to the bill for the valorization of musical and artistic expression in the teaching proposed by all the forces in the Senate in tribute to Master Abbado. Here I have received the message of satisfaction for actions promoted by the Government, in particular by the ministers Franceschini and Giannini, and for the attention of Parliament to the various themes; there is renewed sensitivity and openness to extra-cultivated repertoires and expressive forms of contemporary art, as well as a real listening to the world of entertainment, which also involves many of our young people. It was a moment attended by many colleagues, more political groups, confirming Parliament's commitment to supporting and relaunching the musical culture in our country. Hence the need for interparliamentary coordination to deepen and interloquite with the Government and with stakeholders. On this I followed the commitment made there, in continuity with those that were the decree Bray, value culture, and the decree-Law Franceschini, culture and tourism, with the creation of the Intergroup For music, to which more than 30 parliamentary colleagues have already joined. Cities need places, spaces to allow the beauty to mend the outskirts of the city: this is a teaching by Renzo Piano that was also the subject of the examination of maturity just supported by many of our boys. We feel in this path stimulated by the words of President Matteo Renzi, who wants to give a national horizon, but within a European framework, to initiatives on culture. In this revitalized context the XXII edition of the European Music Festival took place, and I think that today we can address to the many groups, orchestras, choirs, ensembles and to all the organizers and local authorities a heartfelt thanks for the aesthetic and aggregate pleasure that have given us, but above all for the symbolic value of a Europe united in music and culture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-269.ana.u129	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.34 p.m.
