ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, today, all over the world, is celebrating the Day Against Violence against Women. It is a day of remembrance, but also of warning. This day must represent a moment of reflection able to speak to consciences, but also a moment of action and concreteness. The fight against gender violence is a battle of civilizations that must involve everyone: citizens, associations, institutions. Daily reports tell of cases of abuse of women and feminicides. In Italy in 2013, according to the EURES report, every two days a woman fell victim to violence. I repeat, every two days. This is disconcerting and unacceptable, and politics has a duty to intervene in this respect. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, have a moral duty, even before it is to the victims, to all women: we must do everything in our power to protect them and protect them, preventing and sanctioning all forms and phenomena of gender-based violence. Much has already been done to increase the penalties for those who make themselves the perpetrators of these hateful crimes. I would remind you that, in this legislature, Parliament finally approved, unanimously, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women, and approved Decree-Law No 93 of 2013, which introduced new measures to combat gender violence. In order to combat the phenomenon of violence against women, however, there is a need for a profound change, first of all cultural, in the way women and men live. It is only from education that the prevention of all forms of violence can arise. The battle to achieve equal opportunities is not a claim, but an act of civilization against the barrier of inequalities, the glass ceiling of discrimination. Of course to interpret the sentiments of all of you, I call on the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of all women who are victims of violence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u11	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy one of the main causes of women's death is violence at the hands of a man, most of the time a man who - let me say this - has the keys to the house. The cause of their death is therefore inherent in our gender identity. We are talking about a structural and deeply rooted phenomenon, which concerns the order of relations between men and women. I do not think, and with me, the Group for which I am speaking, that violence is rooted in the weakness of women, anything else. If there is one thing that has led this phenomenon to the gigantic proportions that it has - such as to bring the reporter of the UN Rashida Manjoo to recall in the course of the last legislature our country in the matter of violation of human rights - is exactly the opposite, that is, the increasing strength that women have acquired, in the private sphere as in the public one, and the pervicacious inability of men to accept the scope of this force. Violence, as recognised also by movements and by various campaigns of awareness, is a problem of men and with men it must be addressed and eradicated. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Excuse me, Mr President, perhaps everyone is not interested in the subject we are talking about, but I would ask colleagues to use at least the courtesy of not displeasing anything else in this House. Thank you. Returning to my speech, in order to change such a deeply rooted mentality, we must keep closely connected culture, laws and law, because the rules are also culture and because institutional interventions indicate that violence against women becomes a problem of the state and, therefore, a general political problem. [[Brusio. References by the President]] It is precisely in this parliamentary term - as you said, Mr President - that we have adopted a law which has tightened the penalties for crimes of violence against women, a law which has made a considerable difference, that of removing domestic violence from a private sphere, to which a centuries-old tradition had relegated it, in order to transport it into a public sphere, in line with the guidelines of the Istanbul Convention ratified by this Parliament. On all Article 3, which defines violence against women as a violation of human rights, and Article 4, which establishes the principle that everyone has the right to live free from violence, both in the public and in the private sphere, because living free from violence is precisely a right, not a concession and, as such, must be guaranteed by all institutions. It is today - and this is very welcome and fills us with satisfaction - that the Councillor's statement on equal opportunities at the Presidency of the Council, Mr Giovanna Martelli, announces the launch of the National Anti-Violence Plan, which for 2015 and 2016 will be provided with EUR 20 million, 10 per year. On 28 November the plan for the allocation of funds for anti-violence centres, already approved by the Council of Ministers, will be brought to the State-Regions Conference. A public online consultation on the Plan will start at the end of November and will then be adopted by January 2015. To these resources will be added 7 million for anti-violence centers and shelter homes. I remember that for 2013 and 2014 the resources for the centres amounted to 17 million. This is, therefore, a news that we cannot fail to welcome with the utmost favor, given also the scope of the Plan. We are talking about an integrated approach that has among its main points the prevention, the awareness of the operators of the sector, the protection of the victims, the education in the schools, the training of personnel, the recovery of the abusers, the occupational and housing reintegration of the victims, the creation of a national database that gives a complete and articulated reading of the phenomenon of violence against women, the governance of the subjects involved in the territory with the direction of the Department of Equal Opportunities and with Regions, local authorities and Ministries. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Part of the plan will also be dedicated to the communication of the image of women. An unprecedented novelty will also concern the emergency room, where a special pink code will be inserted for victims of domestic and sexual violence. In this integrated approach, much will have and must have a part to play, which, precisely because it puts different young people together in comparison, plays an absolutely significant role in this field. I would like today's day not to end with a ritual day or just a consolatory day, and for that to happen we need the commitment of all political forces to finally promote a new season of equality. In the face of the changes brought about by women's freedom, a completely new approach is needed to highlight the peculiarity of the difference between men and women. Women's freedom, in fact, does not only concern women; in short, it is not only ours: it is also a project of society, of new relationships, of meetings and recognitions. With the certainty, ladies and gentlemen, that the strength to put hand [[Brusio. References by the President]] behavior so deeply rooted and the strength to name things and evoke them by their name, feminicide, is already a political choice. The tallest ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u14	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, this morning the 5 Star Movement tabled a motion to give voice to the many women who are victims of abuse, discrimination, physical and moral violence. I would like to draw attention to the houses of the two Lombard volunteers, Greta Ramelli and Vanessa Marzullo, who were kidnapped in Syria at the end of July this year, as well as to the Romanian women employed in the fields of Sicily and Calabria. The 5 Star Movement asks the Government for clear answers regarding the fulfilment of the commitments made last year with the motion approved to the Chamber of Deputies on 4 June 2013. In particular, has a new national plan been drawn up against violence, harassment, persecuting acts, mistreatment of women? Have the services and assistance measures for victims of violence been strengthened? I would urge the Presidency to schedule, at the Conference of the Leaders, the motion of our Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, with which we call on the Government to report to Parliament by the end of the year on the fulfilment of its commitments. I would also ask you to find a few minutes today to reflect on what the EURES report said, namely the inadequacy of the institutional response to the call for help from women who are victims of violence within the couple. It is a clear fact that, in 2013, as many as 51.9% of the future victims of murder (17 in absolute values) had denounced to the institutions the violence suffered. Every two days in Italy a woman is a victim of feminicide. Therefore, we say that there is no more time to waste and we begin today to attribute urgency to issues that affect the lives of women and on which we, who are the institutions, cannot turn our heads on the other side. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u17	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, I would like to thank you personally and on behalf of our Group for your words. And I want to do it as a woman, and above all as a political woman in this House. So, thank you, Mr. President. I believe that it is necessary to start with our own awareness: we who are the legislators, we who must protect these women by our actions. One in three suffers violence in Italy. This is absolutely unacceptable. We must have him as Post-it every time we make a law, as a key to reading all our actions and we must have it in our hearts because this is the suffering that Italian women suffer daily. It is the new awareness of a legislator aware of what he is doing; of a legislator who cares about the civil welfare of our women. We must express it in many actions. It is true that we have made an excellent stalking law; we have also ratified the Istanbul Convention; these are all important actions. But we need to increase and implement the funds on helping women to be able to denounce anyone who uses violence against them. Many of these women stay at home because they do not have a job and do not know where to stay with their children. We need to help them find a new life, rebuild a new existence. We need to have safe cities for our girls who go out at night so they can come home without being raped. We need to create a different awareness in the world of school and we absolutely must not feel the duty to talk about it only on a day during the year, which is also worthy. We, above all we legislators, need to have it well printed in our heads. Mr President, I would like to end with the words that have always enlightened me about Kofi Annan, who said, as Secretary of the UN, something very simple: if we do not fight violence against women we will never have a real civilization of peace and development. Mr President, a woman who has been violated is a huge burden on the person, his family and society as a whole. It is true that it is also a problem of the development of humanity and of the people of this planet. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u20	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, today, by accepting your words, we too think that it is a day of reflection, but also of proposals, because the risk that our debate, which we do not avoid every year, becomes an exercise in rhetoric is high. We would like to make some proposals because we have been saying this for too long and, after the words and celebration of this day, the facts are never consequent. Meanwhile, there is a concrete way to help and intervene to tackle violence against women: to invest resources in anti-violence centers, to spread their presence throughout the national territory and to guarantee an essential level of assistance following also the experiences of hospitality now experienced for years in the territories. Today, in the many conferences we have attended, we have listened to the anti-violence centers that have said of how few resources in these years the Governments have destined them: the 17 million of 2013 and 2014 never arrived; in the law of stability (which, to date, is the only concrete act), even if we have all read in the newspapers the announcement of the national councilwoman of equal financing of 19 million euros, to date there are 17 million and many amendments submitted to the House by the parliamentarians and various political groups to ask for an increase. What more concrete action to respond to this Day than to vote on those amendments and increase the resources for anti-violence centres, perhaps even trying not to give funding to rain because they do not help anyone to grow? Today, the centres have told us that they receive about EUR 6,000 a year, which is a contribution and not a financing to their expenses. When it comes to national plans, attention must be paid; and this also means being able to choose, evaluate the experience and what really exists in the territories, perhaps to put an end to the very bad practice that we have seen in recent years of a strange proliferation of anti-violence centers. I shall close by saying, Mr President, that I have nothing against the possibility of examining the National Anti-Violence Plan, which we hope this Parliament will be able to discuss and address on the subject, but it is clear that, as we said on the occasion of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the examination of the famous decree on feminicide, we hope that Parliament will discuss sooner or later a single text against gender violence, because we must put together all interventions, from prevention to reception, and especially all sectors, from school to the judiciary, to health, to the police. In short, we need an integrated intervention that can be useful to women. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Cardinal and De Pin Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u23	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too share the views on the need to prepare all the means to combat the phenomenon of violence against women. Today, which is the International Day that recalls these episodes, we want to communicate strongly the fact that a constant and significant work of contrast to all forms of violence and abuse against women must be carried out over time, with concrete action, which must be put on the ground every day. It is not enough to set up significant events, but we need to give concrete answers to a subject which, unfortunately, as you said, Mr President, has absolutely dramatic implications. 2013 was an absolutely black year for feminicides (you mentioned it, Mr President), with one victim every two days, and unfortunately also in 2014 the chronicles tell us every day of episodes of violence and abuse on women. However, we must not forget that there are other kinds of abuses in the world, of all kinds, that the drama often takes place within the domestic walls and that domestic violence is the most widespread form of violence, which continues to affect women. There are even women who fail to report, because they are afraid and perhaps feel abandoned by a state that cannot give the right answers. We must act on the front of a real repression of these phenomena, putting in place actions that have a deterrent effect, with a rigorous application of the law and a judiciary that I do serve certain and rigorous penalties, avoiding that the victims of such crimes, the next day see the streets, on the loose, of their persecutors. It should also be said that much needs to be done to change the cultural approach in our country, to rethink and renegotiate gender roles, acting from a young age on children and students, in schools, through all those actions that can be put in place by educators. Unfortunately, in our country - and we are not talking about other parts of the world - too many prejudices and gender stereotypes still reign, which often prevent women from denouncing, because they themselves believe that in their family context the episodes of violence are almost normal. We must overcome this cultural heritage, which unfortunately has its roots in the past and which is why it is difficult to eradicate, but politics, institutions and all operators have the duty and moral duty to do anything to contain, prevent and finally eradicate this phenomenon. We must act with a different cultural approach in schools and make it clear that men and women, women and men, are two aspects of the same medal, which have two fundamental roles and together form the basis of social life in the family, and we must invest more in the centres of listening, receiving and protecting victims. For our part, we must put in place a network strategy between all institutional levels, in order to give answers to these women, who, unfortunately, still feel very often abandoned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u26	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today is an important day, celebrated all over the world, against violence against women. This day represents an opportunity to draw significant attention and to make deep reflections on this sensitive issue. From a legislative point of view, great progress has been made, especially as regards the strengthening and tightening of penalties for those who commit such violence. But the real element that opposes the full equality between men and women, through which to completely erase gender violence, is culture. You, Mr President, referred to this earlier: respect for women remains a sometimes fragile principle. The absolute awareness reached by the Italian, European and international institutions of the need to protect the fundamental rights of women and the fundamental role that women play within society: all this must certainly become a universal principle. The recent session of the Commission on the condition of women under the auspices of the United Nations, in which I participated, was particularly significant, because all the representatives of the Member States shared the urgency of combating violence against women, especially the most dangerous and silent violence, that is, within the domestic walls. It's news just now, beaten by the agencies, that in Bologna a man beat his wife in front of the four children and the 11-year-old daughter was forced to call the police. Of course, it is destabilizing to hear the words of Turkish President Erdogan, who today, in conjunction with World Day, declares that there is no equality between men and women, because he believes that women are inferior to men. These are absolutely unsatisfying expressions which, however, synthesize a cruel reality: we are still far from our universal goal of sacred respect for women. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senator De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u28	You have the right to do so. It was right that even a man should speak, also because I have always argued that men must be involved in this battle.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u29	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I did not plan to speak. However, I do not think it is a great signal that women are discussing the issue of violence against women in this Chamber. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I believe, instead, out of respect for this other half of Heaven, because someone does violence, and it is men who do it, that we must make a deep reflection on this day on why. There is certainly a legacy even in modern times; the statements of President Erdogan show how difficult it is to get rid of millenarian prejudices, according to which there are superior beings and inferior beings within humankind and above all in a proprietary logic, also this legacy of antiquity and above all of our cultures born around the Mediterranean basin, which also expressed levels of very high civilization on our planet. I believe that all this must lead us to say that either we really take the opportunity of these moments to reflect deeply on the values of our civil coexistence, on the messages that we have to filter from childhood school to reach the highest levels of education and training, within families and all social and cultural agencies, or we have not fulfilled the postulates of our Constitutional Charter and the values of our civil coexistence, because this is behind it. But behind these phenomena is also a conception, rampant especially in the West, the daughter of an ethical liberalism and a moral relativism that is before the eyes of all, according to which the dignity of the human person must be sacrificed to the attainment however or satisfaction of his own pleasure or of an own purpose of possession, exercise of a power, of a power at all costs. This is what we hear every day from family stories, such as the one we have just mentioned. Not only, therefore, must we ensure that more resources are allocated, also in this year's law of stability, to promote the fight against all marginalizations and gender-based violence, particularly on women, but we must also take on a profound education, which must start from early childhood, in order to be able to change the value paradigms on which we have set our civil coexistence. [[Applause from Senators Marino Luigi and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u30	He asked the State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Dr. Barracciu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u31	Mr President, I believe that today, with the remembrance of the International Day against Violence against Women, this House of the Senate is giving a comforting signal to the outside world, particularly to all women, associations, all people and institutions committed daily against this terrible phenomenon. In the belief that it is well done today to talk about it here in the Senate, I feel I share and subscribe to all the words spoken by the honourable senators, because we cannot remain indifferent to the figures highlighted today. (17.07) (Following Mr BARRACCIU, State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism). In particular, one cannot remain indifferent to the figures that lead Italy to occupy a very worrying position in this ranking. It has already been recalled that, above all, 2013 can be defined just as a terrible year compared to the gravity of the phenomenon: every two days, in fact, a woman loses her life because of the violence perpetrated against her. Another fact must concern us, in addition to this, is the violence between the domestic walls, as has already been mentioned by the last senator intervened: in Italy, in seven out of ten cases, the feminicides take place within the domestic walls, while the world statistics report that one in three women is victims of violence during their lives. In short, one cannot remain indifferent to these figures and it is right to remember in every way and every occasion this terrible phenomenon and to make the appropriate reflections, but above all it is appropriate to act. It is in fact a very dangerous social phenomenon, creeping, which has setbacks, but also rapid shootings and stages of increase. Therefore, it is absolutely not necessary to lower the guard, but to remember all those wives, girlfriends, women and sisters who are killed for the simple reason of having decided to leave a man or not to submit to the will of others. Above all, we must remember all those who suffer violence in silence, as has already been pointed out, without finding the strength to denounce and bring out the malaise, pain and discomfort. We owe it to these women, to those who have unfortunately already died, to those who have already suffered phenomena of serious violence and to those who suffer it in silence. We owe it to them and also to all the children who, unfortunately, are unarmed in these phenomena. We must work in such a way as to achieve and put in place all the means of preventing and protecting women, but we must also be careful to work precisely on children, who suffer violence indirectly and learn it at home, within the home walls, to see it exercised by one parent towards the other, because that is where the vicious circle of birth, growth and reproduction of victims and executioners is lurking. Because these are, in fact, the behaviors and methods of relationship that are learned when there is, unfortunately, the misfortune of witnessing acts of violence. Therefore, one cannot remain indifferent: it is a very serious social phenomenon, of which politics and institutions must take responsibility. Of course, very important progress has been made in Italy. Every year, when it is an opportunity to remember International Day, we also remember the progress that has been made on the legislative side. Today I would like to remind you that this Government has not been indifferent to the requests made by the honourable Members and Senators, even in recent weeks and months, particularly when it has been stressed that the financial envelope for the proper functioning of the anti-violence centres on Italian territory was not adequate. Therefore, I am here to confirm that the announcement made by the councilwoman, Mr Martelli, is not an announcement, but a fact, in the sense that I confirm that the stability law will be allocated, with the will of the Government, EUR 10 million per year, for the three-year period, to finance the anti-violence centres. With regard to this, I would also like to report that the unified conference will be convened tomorrow to decide the criteria for allocating the funds that will be allocated. So these are concrete actions which are made up of a financial envelope greater than that of the past, which will follow - precisely - the decision on how to allocate these funds. In addition, it will work immediately to draw up the lines of action to be agreed with local authorities and with associations and bodies working in this very sensitive area. Moreover, on the lines of action that will be developed, as has already been said, Mr Martelli, on his own initiative, will also open a wide public consultation. The guidelines will be adopted by January with an act by President Renzi. Therefore, there is a concrete commitment on the part of the Government (which has been announced and which we want to honour) that we think will give a concrete response to the urgent need to cope with this terrible phenomenon that we would like, next year, to record percentages of diffusion lower than those that today, however, we have unfortunately listed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law 1569, already approved by the House of Deputies. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u33	Mr President, Senators, the draft law on the agenda, approved at first reading by the House of Deputies, provides for the establishment of a biennial research prize for the preservation of the memory of the Socialist Member Giuseppe Di Vagno, assassinated on 25 September 1921, and provisions relating to the library and historical archive of the foundation entitled to him. Giuseppe Di Vagno was born in Conversano, in the Province of Bari, on April 12, 1889, as a family of small owners. After his high school studies in the seminary of Conversano, he enrolled in the law faculty of the University of Rome, obtaining his degree in 1912. On his return to his native country he entered political life and, in 1914, was elected city and provincial councillor, placing himself in support of the peasant claims of Gioia del Colle and Minervino Murge, affected countries, between 1920 and 1921, by the violent and bloody reaction of the agrarians to the peaceful occupation of the uncultivated lands and police repression. In the 1921 general elections, he was elected to the Parliament on the Socialist list. Di Vagno fell into an ambush organized by about twenty young fascists from his native country and by Gioia del Colle who, after the conclusion of a meeting in Mola di Bari, on September 25, 1921, shot the crazy and launched a hand bomb to terrorize the passersby. Already in the previous months Di Vagno had been made the subject of attempts of physical suppression in numerous centers of Puglia, including the one foiled at the railway station of Noci (my hometown), which followed a result, thank God, not positive. The killing of the Socialist Member, known for the defense of peasants and workers in courtrooms, as well as for the impetus for the organization of workers and for the support of welfare institutions (including humanitarian society, the committees for Serbian and Montenegrin refugees) aroused a deep impression in national public opinion at a time when attempts were being made to stem the violence that was disrupting post-war Italy. The memory of the good giant, as Turati called it, was revived by the distinguished Southernist Tommaso Fiore on Radio Bari, in the early months of 1944, where Di Vagno, Matteotti, Gobetti and the Rosselli brothers were remembered among the last defenders of freedom and social justice, before the long darkness of the regime. The date chosen for the award of this prize is September 25 of every two years. Originally, in the text approved at first reading, the date of that date was fixed from 25 September of this year. In view of the fact that the approval times at second reading would not have allowed the 7th Commission to comply with this date, it was therefore appropriate to amend the date of first allocation of the abovementioned premium, as also indicated in the opinion delivered by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The organization of the award, also at the level of drafting of the notice, is returned to the existing Di Vagno Foundation, already receiving contributions from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism within the three-year table of cultural institutions admitted to the annual ordinary contribution of the State for the three-year period 2012-2014, pursuant to Article 1 of Law No 534 of 1996. On the relationship between the Foundation and the institutions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued a non-obstacle opinion, provided that in Article 1 (3) and Article 2 (2) the forecast of the understanding, respectively, between the Foundation and the Scientific Committee, on the one hand, and the Presidency of the Council, on the other hand, was deemed to be an improper instrument to regulate relations between individuals and institutional entities. Therefore, the 7th Commission unanimously approved two of my amend ment proposals with a view to implementing these conditions expressed by the 1st Commission. The theme of the award is decided by a scientific committee composed of three scholars of clear fame of contemporary history or political science appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers by his own decree. In order to promote compliance with the principles of transparency and impartiality, the Commission has approved an amendment of the 5 Star Movement Group that the assessments made and the criteria adopted for the above-mentioned appointments are made public, including through publication on the website of the Presidency of the Council. The themes of reference, initially related to socialism, social and political conflicts, institutional changes in the Mezzogiorno, political violence, ideals of justice and solidarity, reformism and democracy, were greatly enriched during the examination in the Commission, through the approval of the three amendments of the Movimento 5 Stelle Group which also included the protection of the landscape heritage of the Mezzogiorno, the historical, cultural and political transformations of the Mezzogiorno in the 20th century and the prospects for the 21st century, as well as the historical role of the Mezzogiorno of Italy in the West. For the choice of the winners, a jury of six members is expected: the president, chosen by the Minister of Cultural Heritage among scholars of clear fame of political science; a representative of the Presidency of the Council and one of the Presidency of the Puglia Region; three scholars of clear fame of contemporary history. The original text did not indicate how members of the jury were appointed, the act by which they were appointed was not indicated and, with particular reference to scholars, the person making the appointment was not mentioned, as also highlighted in the opinion given by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, on my own initiative, the 7th Commission has made it clear that both the chairman of the jury and the three scholars are appointed by its own decree by the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. As already mentioned in the preamble, the frequency of the prize is two-year. The amount of the prize, amounting to € 40,000, can be distributed in several prizes. Added to this is a one-off contribution for 2015, amounting to 100,000 euros, for the library and archive located in the Foundation. It is believed that this financial envelope serves the accommodation, a thematic organization of the Foundation's considerable documentary heritage, which over the years has been the subject of intense and intelligent action to acquire book funds and valuable paper documents from public institutions, private and family bequests. It is thanks to the Foundation's Board of Directors to have promoted and urged such legacy. The financial coverage of the measure therefore amounts to 140,000 euros for 2015 and 40,000 euros every other year from 2017, given the biennial frequency of the prize. Archive and library of the Di Vagno Foundation are the heart of the measures contained in the bill. In fact, the physical and organizational arrangement, the classification, with the use of new technologies, the physical and telematic use of the large documentation provided to the Foundation will represent the core and the focal point of reference of the studies and requests that, presumably, will be used by the same competitors of the historical-literary-sociological competition. During the examination in the Commission there was a substantial sharing of objectives and objectives among all political forces with regard to the need to give particular recognition to a foundation of the Mezzogiorno, for the action carried out and for the ability to make a system between the public and the private, to testify - and denouncing an abused common place - to the positive attitude of the South to the networking of the region; almost a unique one that will stimulate the implementation of best practices in university, institutional and in the priceless world of cultural and social volunteering in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. At the end of the presentation of this bill, I feel obliged to thank all the members of the 7th Commission (public education, cultural goods and scientific research); first of all, President Marcucci and the usual officials for the collaboration, and also to say deeply honoured for the appointment as rapporteur of this provision of law, which will be able to stand in the conscience - and in particular that of all true democrats - as a bastion of constitutional and universal freedoms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u34	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the establishment of the biennial research prize bearing the name of Giuseppe Di Vagno, already approved by the House of Deputies, is before us and would have become law if the 16th legislature had not been interrupted in advance. An initiative which, in the intentions of the proposing Members, should have been concrete in 2011 on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of the assassination of the Socialist Member, the first Member of Parliament in the history of Italy who was the victim of violence. I trust, therefore, that the Senate of the Republic will soon conclude its examination and thus exhaust the long procedure until the desirable final approval. Ladies and gentlemen, Giuseppe Di Vagno was an Apulian congressman, as was mentioned by the rapporteur, who was elected on the list of the Socialist Party in the college of Bari-Foggia on May 15, 1921, who was barbaricly murdered, at the age of 32, on September 25, 1921, in an ambush aimed at Mola di Bari by a fascist team who, after having made a shield of the explosion of hand bombs, exploded three shots of a gun. The story Di Vagno, debated between the localistic dimension of the clash between power groups linked to the government and the interests of the city and the national dimension within the strategy of violence as an instrument of political struggle proper to fascism, was outlined for the first time with historiographic rigor by Gaetano Arfé in 2001. Due to the lack of a historical and political reflection on this tragic event, the figure of Di Vagno had not entered the national historiography, despite the fact that it was the assassination of the first Member of the history of Italy. He was a victim of the power exercised by the agricultural fascism of Apulia and its greatest exponents, starting with Mr Caradonna, who was not by chance among those who more tenaciously opposed the peace pact endorsed by Mussolini himself. The subsequent historiographic research, with substantial agreement, concluded that the murder of Di Vagno consolidates the strategy of violence for the conquest of power by fascism. He wrote Gaetano Arfé in 2001: No revision can erase the fact that fascism theorized and practiced violence as an instrument of political struggle: Di Vagno died of a gun, Matteotti and the brothers Rosselli of a dagger, Giovanni Amendola and, with him, the priest Don Minzoni of a baton. Of them, only Carlo Rosselli had taken up arms, to defend the freedom of Spain in the open field. And it was voluntary and non-preterintentional homicide, as he concluded in the volume of 2011 "The trial Di Vagno - A crime unpunished by fascism and democracy" (with a very harsh criticism of the judgment of the Court of Cassation that decreed the definitive acquiescence of the guilty) and the legal doctor, Professor Franco Introna, who after years from the examination, even if only documentary, of the findings, concluded for the unequivocal existence of the homicidal will by the unpunished perpetrators of the crime. In all these long years the tribute that had to be paid to the truth of history was pursued because one could not ignore the duty to return to the facts of that tragic 1921 the right and due assessment that was prevented at the time of the killing. In fact, gathering the demands, the Chamber of Deputies has favored the historical research curated by the Foundation that bears its name, with the publication of three volumes that respectively bear the title: "Giuseppe Di Vagno - Documents and testimonies" (Camera, 2005), "Giuseppe Di Vagno - Writings and interventions" (Camera, 2007), "Il processo Di Vagno - Unpunished crime between fascism and democracy" (Camera, 2011). A decade of studies that, although late, deliver the figure of Giuseppe Di Vagno, for years relegated to the most convenient position for the regime of the protagonist of a local feud, as one of the symbols of the fight against the nascent fascism, in which only two years later will fall also Giacomo Matteotti. In fact, in 2005 Giuliano Vassalli highlighted some surprising but not random similarities between the figure of Giacomo Matteotti and that of Di Vagno: from the formation of studies, to the beginning and the development of political activity until their tragic death. The Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pier Ferdinando Casini (25 September 2005) and Mr Fausto Bertinotti (25 September 2007), went to Conversano, a city where the remains rest, to pay homage to the tomb and commemorate the figure of Di Vagno. The President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano took part, on 5 November 2011 in Conversano, on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of the assassination, in the honours of the "Matteotti del Sud" (Southern Matteotti). Finally, last September, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Laura Boldrini, with her report, took part in the day of studies on the centenary of the Great War, organized by the Foundation, for the historical and political reinterpretation of the reasons for the adversity of Giuseppe Di Vagno (and of Giacomo Matteotti) to that great and useless massacre, so defined by the Pontiff of the time. More than ninety years later, the well-deserved activity of the Di Vagno Foundation and the irreplaceable help of the Chamber of Deputies have allowed to consolidate the historical judgment, healing the fracture that that murder caused in the Apulian and southern society. The Di Vagno Foundation, which bears its name, arose in the footsteps of the Institute of Socialist Studies founded in 1943, at the dawn of the reconquered freedom, by historian Antonio Lucarelli, has been working for decades in Puglia with the task of honoring and guarding the memory of Di Vagno and of all the democrats who sacrificed themselves, some to the extreme sacrifice of life, for freedom and against all forms of oppression. Jealous guardian of the deepest roots and of its history, the Di Vagno Foundation, with the most absolute transparency, promotes the diffusion of political culture in contemporary times, in particular among the younger generations, extending its action even beyond the regional borders; respecting and defending the pluralism of political ideas and cultures. In fact, it promotes culture, organizing "Corsi di buona politica" (Courses of good politics), a festival of political culture "Lector in fabula" (now in the XI edition), and only a month ago it gathered in Conversano over 100 cultural magazines from all over Europe for a discussion on the theme of the great migrations and the rights of migrants. In particular, through donations of friends and volunteers, the Foundation has created a library, to date with more than 11,000 volumes, belonging to the National Library Service (SBN) and oriented towards contemporary history, the history of political parties and trade unions, and has created and nurtured as a work in progress a historical archive present on the net, within the portal "Archivi del Novecento" (Twentieth Century Archives), which to date has collected and partially reset over 50 archival funds produced by democratic politicians, not only socialists, since the end of the nineteenth century. The Historical Archive has the collection of the magazine of the "Next!," including the first issue of its foundation, of December 25, 1896, and keeps the unique issue published on April 2, 1893, as well as a valuable and rare collection of historical and cultural journals and magazines. A cultural treasure, which through this legislative initiative is proposed to safeguard further, in addition to expanding, preserving and guaranteeing public use. For years, through the MPs of Puglia and through the Di Vagno Foundation, the aim has been to establish the Research Prize Giuseppe Di Vagno, in the footsteps of what the Chamber of Deputies deservedly did in 2004, on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the murder of Giacomo Matteotti, in the conviction that in contemporary society, more than monuments, opportunities for study and historical research are necessary. The establishment of the Giuseppe Di Vagno Biennial Research Prize and the provisions for the enhancement of the library and historical archive of the Di Vagno Foundation could finally fulfil the function of ensuring a lasting future for the memory of Di Vagno. The memory - recently said the President of the Republic of Naples - is a nourishment to restore to politics the dignity that is due to it in order to continue to carry out the function of changing the country and maintaining democracy. The new generations, therefore, need to be sensitized by recalling the ideas and values that men and political forces have exercised in our history in order to guarantee democracy and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I trust that the Senate, with broad agreement, will approve this bill. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sibilia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law under discussion creates a symbolic but important prize for what may be memory within democracy. The establishment of the Giuseppe Di Vagno biennial research prize, a southern politician and the first Italian Parliamentary victim of fascism, is in fact a tool more than the activity of a Foundation that bears its name and that works well on the territory. It carries out an action of research and computerization and keeps alive the memory of a figure of importance for the history of the liberation of our country. Without retracing the injustice of which Mr Giuseppe Di Vagno was the victim, we focus in particular on the value that the celebration of the character has in the context of the southernist policies. It is an important signal for the young people of the South, to rediscover the history of their lands, but also of men who honored it at the cost of the sacrifice of their lives. However, the resources allocated are in some respects small, since they are a contribution of EUR 40,000 to be paid every two years, and a one-off allocation of EUR 100,000 only for an annual increase in the activity of the foundation. Hence the symbolic character of the prize. It is not intended to finance a particular subject on a permanent basis, but to emphasize certain themes so that the attention is always alive from the historical and cultural point of view. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that, precisely on the issues of the prize, the text has been enriched by the examination in 7th Commission: the protection of the landscape heritage of the Mezzogiorno, the historical, cultural and political transformations and the role of South Italy in the West have been introduced. So for once the spotlight is on a history that is both local and global, given that the general context is that of social conflicts and political struggles, the ideals of justice, solidarity and peace in the world. We can certainly discuss how to appoint the jury, how to choose the winners, transparency and how to advertise the results, as in fact happened in the Commission. However, this does not in any way affect the meaning of the measure, but rather strengthens it, as precise rules are laid down for the implementation of the objectives set out therein. The rapporteur's willingness to accept suggestions and proposals on this issue has therefore led to a change in the text. The transversal political will which emerged at the time of the presentation of the bill to the House of Deputies was maintained, in essence, also in this branch of Parliament, given that the final vote in the Commission was unanimous. The hope is that, in this case too, a unanimous consensus will be reached in order to give a clear signal from the institutions. It is not by chance, among other things, that this prize is awarded, in accordance with Article 1, in the presence of a delegate from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and that the President of the Council is involved in the appointment of the Scientific Committee. The institutional level of reference is, in fact, maximum and this should call for a reflection on the total absence of political and/or party exploitations. It is therefore a question of giving a boost to culture, of recovering memory and of aiming for formation, so that the younger generations are stimulated to protect civic virtues, thanks to the example of defending democracy offered by Congressman Di Vagno, whom we commemorate here. Moreover - and I conclude - this will encourage the commitment and the historical-cultural analysis that is part of a context at a very low cost, but at very high qualification and, above all, effectiveness and performance in educational terms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u38	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.6, which may seem to be a restriction on the autonomy of the Foundation, since it also involves the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism in its choices, if the sum allocated to the award is to be allocated to several prizes which can be paid in accordance with merit criteria. As the amendment was designed, the objective is not to limit the autonomy of the Foundation, but to offer a greater guarantee of virtuous methods in the possible distribution of these sums, because we all know how important this is when it comes to public money, especially at a time like the current period of shortage of funds, in general, but above all of funds for the cultural sector. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u40	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u41	The opinion is in favour of amendment 1,100, while on amendment 1.3 there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. On the remaining amendments to Article 1, the opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u42	[[Show me to get up.]] The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u43	You can also stand up completely and not partially, Undersecretary; that is the practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u44	[[Senator Tonini's comments.]] There is no irony, Senator Tonini: the House has its own rules, which you know and respect. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u45	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u46	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,100 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u49	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, clearly the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this amendment and also the subsequent one, both simply to reduce the resources allocated to this prize. The measure itself does not tend to give more resources to the sector and to think in an overall way about the archives, their importance and the preservation of the same, but it has a purely localistic spirit. Therefore, I think it is also right to limit resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u50	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators, up to the words "20,000 euros." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.4 and amendment 1.5 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u51	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u52	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u54	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). (17.50) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u56	As has already been said for other amendments proposed for this measure, Amendment 3.1 also goes in the direction of greater transparency, which should offer greater guarantees not only of merit but also of the adequacy of the winners and those who will go to evaluate, and select the winners. The facts of the news constantly remind us of the need we have in Italy for transparency and guarantee of merit.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u57	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u58	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u59	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u61	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u65	Barani (GAL). Mr President, for me, of course, today is a great time, because a socialist is talking about a socialist. Mr President, this is happening on an important day. Previously many colleagues and even a colleague spoke of violence against women on the Day against violence against women, well, socialists are like women: in their history they have always found violence and injustice. Today, with this biennial research award made to the socialist who died at just 32 years old, Giuseppe Di Vagno, the Senate, as the House has already done, offers a recognition to this first political victim in Italy at the hands of the fascist ideology, ideology that, together with the communist ideology and all the maximalist ideologies, have always been angry with the socialists and have always tried to eliminate them physically. For us, Mr President, going to Conversano is a pilgrimage of socialist culture (personally there have been several times with Apulian friends and socialists, and Bari in particular). The same is going to Stella di Savona on Pertini's grave, to Milan on that of Turati, to Verano on that of Saragat or to Florence on that of Carlo and Nello Rosselli, the two brothers killed in 1937 in France. That's what we usually do. (17.55) (Follows Barani). It is difficult for Parliament to recognize these figures, not only at the time of the anniversary, but also with a prize to raise awareness among the community and young people, from a cultural, sociological and political point of view. It reiterates the fact that we are beginning to discuss what has been the winning culture of the last century, thanks to which we today have a democracy, indeed put at great risk, in the last twenty years, by the media-judicial coups and by further murderers, such as that of Bettino Craxi, which is clear and clear. It is not up to me to talk about it, or perhaps it is up to me to do so, since in this House I am the only, or among the few, to have the chromosome of red carnation, reformism and guarantee, which also had these young socialists of the beginning of the last century, who were killed to defend the peasants and the workers, who with the stick, who with the gun, who with the knife. They have always been killed, neither more nor less than is often done within the domestic walls with women, as has been mentioned before: in this case they were murdered inside the patriotic ground, by other Italians. Moreover, this also tells us our international history, in Portugal, Spain, Chile, Argentina or Czechoslovakia and in all the countries in which we have always tried to eliminate the socialists, precisely because they have the seed of democracy in their DNA. I am convinced that if the first parliamentary victim had been of another ideology we would have had a national holiday or a day of national culture, and instead we wanted to diminish this anniversary. Precisely for this reason we are proud and proud and we thank those who presented the draft law in question and those who tried to carry it out with great sacrifices. Of course we cannot rejoice - and I apologise to Giuseppe Di Vagno right now - that for the recognition of a two-year prize, even though they were poor, there are 40,000 euros and there are even some who have tabled amendments to halve the figure to 20,000 euros. The hair is torn apart: it is in the DNA of maximumism the fact of saying that if they killed him, they did well, that he must continue to die and that that seed must not be present in our culture. This means instead that socialism we need so much and that we need to remember, as we socialists do in the destinations of pilgrimages where there are tombs with carnation. If you enter any cemetery or cemetery, on some graves you will find the red carnation: know that there is a socialist, who has always fought for democracy, freedom and justice, with the guarantee in DNA, who has never hurt a fly, always willing to help the community from the social point of view, its development and the weaker classes. Mr President, I do not want to take any more time, because it is significant that today we are devoting a prize to the first MEP who was unjustly killed and murdered by cultural hatred, against democracy and fundamental principles. Since 1892 we have suffered violence; knowing therefore, from the foundation of the glorious Italian Socialist Party, that a young man who died in 1921, today, almost a hundred years later, is remembered with a prize is in any case an important fact, which we hope will understand the young people and scholars who will participate in it, both as competitors and as examiners. At least the examiners have a DNA that truly understands who should be awarded a prize that must have as its intrinsic objective to raise young people's awareness of the sacrifices that their fathers and grandparents made of socialist culture. If now in Italy they have the opportunity to participate in such prizes is thanks to the sacrifice and blood of those socialists, those constituent Fathers of the early twentieth century, who have been able to sow, cultivate, cure and harvest that seed. So I would like to thank you once again, Madam President, for this, and I declare, on behalf of the whole Group, our vote firmly in favour. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u68	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the first question we are asking ourselves is: was a draft law necessary? This observation led us to vote in favour of the amendments previously tabled. It does not make sense to talk about reducing the resources allocated (from 100,000 to 80,000 or from 140,000 to 40,000), because this means accepting the fact that the proposal contained even passes through the form of a legislative measure. We believe that the proposal has dignity and that there must be respect for the ideas and people behind the formulation that we can also define as technical-burocratic or, if we want, economic, that is to say that the state will set aside EUR 40,000 or EUR 100,000. What doesn't come back is the fact that this is a unicum. How can the legislative instrument be used to set up a premium in this case? How many meritorious activities (even to a greater extent, because they happen in silence), are normally carried out in our country by associations that do not have any support from the State? [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Mussini and Carraro]] How many? And then we wonder why we even need legislation. Here we must tell ourselves the truth, because there is no longer a tip law. It's simple: there's no more tip law. There is no longer any way in which Members can get money and return to the territory. We respect very much the dignity attached to a prize, in memory of the sacrifice of the people who are behind us. It is regrettable, however, that today a disparity is created between citizens, associations and foundations that are engaged in and committed for years to absolutely identical and sustainable initiatives, which will not receive a cent from the State and not even the approval of a law. It would have been more correct and dignified, with regard to this cross-section of the Italian cultural and socio-political landscape, to limit the whole to the institution of the prize, then leaving its implementation to the Ministry using other instruments that the State well has. No, we do not like this method and we will certainly not vote for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u71	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we shall vote in favour of the draft law establishing the Research Prize for Giuseppe Di Vagno at the same Foundation. Of course, as has been said, this certainly constitutes a precedent. In fact, the dignity that is recognized at this award and at the work of the Foundation, precisely because of the considerations raised in the intervention now carried out, opens a precedent: we hope therefore that resources for other similar interventions can be identified, because I believe that, when we manage to find resources to invest in culture, it is always an important element. In this case, we are talking about resources that go to finance research work that has been unpublished or is being published for history researchers, who all too often find it difficult to find scholarships or research grants, resources that we also want to reiterate, must certainly be used with respect for transparency and above all with the guarantee of maximum publicity, as we hope will happen. A prize to the memory of Di Vagno, as has been mentioned, is an award to Apulian socialism and social reformism, which has been an important part of the history of Italian socialism and of democratic Italy. The historical memory, in a phase of populism and speed of doing, but above all of cultural superficiality, becomes a compass necessary to rediscover the right path and the sense of politics, understood as education for coexistence and the rules of the rule of law, because this was the example and teaching of Di Vagno. Regarding the story of Di Vagno, which we fully share, it has been written that the roots of freedom become robust if they are well planted in the land of social rights, and justice and democracy are the legs on which a country can and must walk that from the Risorgimento to the Resistance has tried to be a nation, a people and an idea. I would also like to say that the socialism of Peppino Di Vagno is the same of Giacomo Matteotti: a socialism of struggle, of social battles and for equality, which has played an important role for democracy in our country and has not bowed to fascism. It is, however, a socialism very far from the Craxian degenerations that we have known and of which we hear too often in this House. It has been called "the good giant" for its great ability to speak to the peasant world and to the workers of the South, who did not know freedom because they were real slaves to those landowners well protected by a violent and dangerous fascist regime. He was able to speak to many men and women in the South, to a people who worked hard, who experienced hunger and humiliation and who for the first time, thanks to the role played by Di Vagno, saw the possibility of rebelling. It is no coincidence that his civil passion and moral temper have also found consensus in the bourgeoisie or that his violent death has not stopped those important peasant struggles that have been an important moment of liberation for the South. The history of Di Vagno, however, is not only historical memory, but also allows us to read what happens in today's world of work, where there are no more landowners, replaced by a generation of industrialists - supported by the governments of the shift - who think that the development of companies and the economy is linked to the denial of workers' rights. In this sense, unfortunately, there are many examples that we still have to see today. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u74	COLUCCI (NCD). Madam President, in my speech I supported the agreement to the draft law on our examination: I confirm, on behalf of the NCD Group, the vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u77	Montevecchi (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, this draft establishes a biennial research prize named after Giuseppe Di Vagno, who - let us remember once again - was the organizer of the socialist movement and the first Italian parliamentary victim of fascism. He was murdered in Mola di Bari on September 25, 1921, about three years before the murder of Giacomo Matteotti, for the commemoration of which, on the occasion of the ninetieth anniversary of his death (June 10, 1924) was proposed as you know or perhaps not, a bill of similar content. These are stories, those of Di Vagno and Matteotti, who re-propose the image of an opaque country, with many killed deaths and some scapegoats, but no culprit, and where historical truth and procedural truths, not only do not coincide, but they differ profoundly, to the point of generating, in those who assist, often partiality and approximation, but also conformism, on the one hand, and rejection, on the other. The history of Di Vagno is therefore exemplary Italian history. The prize is awarded on the day of the anniversary of the death, but, in view of the contribution for the prize and some guarantees in terms of transparency and publicity (I would like to stress obtained thanks to the amendments of the 5 Star Movement approved to the Chamber), an exceptional one-off contribution is granted to the Foundation entitled to him, in order to ensure the permanent and definitive opening to the public of the library and the historical archive of the democratic memory of Apulia, located at the headquarters of the Foundation. Nothing to say about every initiative aimed at the preservation and promotion of cultural heritage. Nothing to say, in particular, about the figure of Giuseppe Di Vagno, which belongs to those figures that, in the democratic construction of our country, it is right and appropriate to remember and celebrate. Several times the 5 Star Movement, in the 7th Commission, has insisted on the need to relaunch a dense weaving between the various cultural institutions, which has its essential junctions in libraries and archives, both from the point of view of the knowledge and diffusion of the language, as well as that of promotion and culture. With regard to this bill, the perplexities and criticalities of the 5 Star Movement are to be traced precisely to the localistic nature of the provision and to the fact that, once again, even in the examination of the provision, the opportunity has been missed to discuss and begin to reason on the problem of libraries and historical archives in its complexity. As always, we find ourselves faced with a modus operandi that passes through a size and patch, rather than for an art stitching of a dress that goes well to all realities in the national territory. Libraries and archives - let us remember - represent the identity card of the nation state. So, in our opinion, we should invest in a more organic and structural way and not in a limited and localised way. In addition, we must also remember that we are moving in a sector - culture - which is already burdened by cuts and a continuous and persistent lack of resources. It is precisely this shortage of resources, which prevents a physiological generational change and has reached a point of no return. On the contrary, legislation and broader reflections should be promoted, especially at the present time, in which we are witnessing the change from a system characterized by polycentrism as a positive model to a dispersive fragmentation of the conservative function. The precarious conditions under which the Central Archives of the State are located are evidence of this. I would like to remind you that already the 2012 law of stability barely managed to safeguard the archives from the mannaia of linear cuts, however public funding was halved in 2013 compared to the previous year. We risk, therefore, a desertification of knowledge. If you want to save money you must first invest properly and wisely. Without investments - we take the opportunity of this bill to reiterate it - the ship of culture (including schools and universities) will sink. As Mrs Chiara Di Benedetto said in her speech to the Chamber of Deputies, this bill presents a further reason for perplexity (at least for the 5 Star Movement Group) represented by the controversial figure of the president of that Foundation who received - let us remember - a sentence at first instance to eight years of imprisonment, a fine at the time of 820 million lire and the perpetual ban from public offices, as well as a sentence in second degree at 5 years and 6 months, and then arrive at the prescription, as often happens in Italy. And I do not need to remind this House of recent events. The story, just for the record, concerned the division of contracts for the construction of school buildings: 14 school buildings for a total value of 47 billion lire. Without wanting to re-produce in this However, I would like to ask the House why we are talking about a person who is president of a foundation who is asking for further funding from the State in order to create a research prize. Therefore, at the presidency of a foundation that will be called to manage a sum of money we find a person who unfortunately has in his past experiences not really virtuous from the point of view of ethics and resource management. For these reasons and not to be silent about not wanting to grant resources for the management of the archive of a foundation that from a cultural point of view on the territory - to what they report - carries on an important activity, the Movement 5 Star Group will express on this measure a vote of abstention, but inviting the House and all political forces to reason on a measure that does not have a localistic character and that finally reasons to 360 degrees on the problem of our libraries and our historical archives. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u80	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I hope that the title of this draft law will not reward the real purpose of the draft law. The purpose of this bill, I believe, has been punctually recalled in the passionate speeches of several colleagues who have preceded me that I have heard here in the Chamber, but, in particular, of my colleague Barani and my colleague Colucci who wanted to recover the sense of the history of socialism as a presupposition of redemption of the figure of Giuseppe Di Vagno. A figure that has faded inside the pages of a story that today is revived thanks to the presentation of this bill, and proposes numerous questions, which become disturbing if contextualized with our times. In fact, the real purpose of this bill is to preserve memory from oblivion because, as Sepulveda said, a people without memory is a people that has no future. And preserving memory from oblivion means restoring to the figure of Giuseppe Di Vagno his dignity, the dignity built with the symbolic witness of a life that knows how to sacrifice itself on the altar of values, of a life that consecrates its goal to the defense of the principles of democracy and freedom. Thirty-two years, for four months Congressman, brilliant young man, good giant in the physical, but humble in the stretch as determined in the defense of his ideals, in the defense of the less well-off, in the defense of the farmers of the Mezzogiorno. One mistake that we must not make - let me say this - is to consider this bill as a shortcut to recover, by sideways, the dead tip law. So we would not honor the figure of Joseph of Vagno [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Today, however, we want to honour it in the most authentic way, giving it not to the history of localism, of a territory, of a country, but to the history of a democracy, of a tricolor that - especially in these times in which the danger of demagogicism and populism risk stifling even the last yearning, the last whispering - makes us look to hope and does not mortify our aspirations. The other objective of the measure is the need to support research as a stimulus to recover from the faded pages of our history the noble sense of that policy that is being served for the country. I realize that sometimes it slips miserably into the calculation of numbers, of the economic resources destined, however modest, and we lose sight of the value of this bill. A bill that returns to the country, starting from the institutional seats, from the Houses of Parliament, the dignity of a personality that has unfortunately been forgotten behind shadows that must be moved by the wind of a renewed commitment to the recovery of our values, whatever they are, always noble if destined to support our democracy and the tricolor. The emphasis on merit is significant. The prize, in fact, is intended for those who deserve, through research, to get praise, because the merit represents the passport of entry into collective consideration, and therefore is a sign of attention to young people. Let me also say that the measure is an act due to the family, deprived in advance of a brilliant young man who had put the birth of a son, who never saw. In fact, we owe it also to the son of Giuseppe Di Vagno, also Giuseppe Di Vagno, born a few months after the heinous death of his father and who since 1963 has honored the Houses of Parliament with positions in politics and institutions, serving the country with dignity and rigour. The President of the Republic, a few years ago, wishing to honor Giuseppe Di Vagno at Conversano, where President Casini also went, said: The brief but intense human story of Giuseppe Di Vagno, his enthusiastic adherence to the idea of politics as a service to the community, as an instrument of civil maturation of the human person is still today an extraordinary example, especially for the new generations, not to degrade politics to pure pragmatism and career calculation. Giuseppe di Vagno fell to affirm his ideals of democracy, freedom, justice, solidarity and peace: today values become the common heritage of all Italians, also thanks to the extreme sacrifice of those who, like him, did not bow to the violence of a liberticide ideology. I cannot use words better than those of the Head of State to confirm the deep conviction with which Forza Italia supports this bill, and I declare the vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u83	Martini (PD). Madam President, I would like to say a few words to add to the Group of the Party of European Socialists' agreement to this draft law, which we shall therefore support with our vote for the things that have already been said by our colleagues and because the measure we are debating has a number of important objectives which our country has not always taken into account. On the one hand, the memory of the past and of our history through the memory of the figure of Giuseppe Di Vagno, certainly important in the territory from which it came, but which has a national relevance for being the first parliamentary victim of fascist violence in 1921; on the other hand, because the bill establishes and finances a research award addressed to scholars - I hope especially young people - who have engaged in matters ranging from the history of socialism and social and political conflicts, reformism and democracy to the events that have involved the Mezzogiorno of Italy from the point of view of institutional, historical, cultural and political changes, without neglecting the fundamental theme of the history of the landscapes and local cultures. They hold together, therefore, in this bill, the memory of the past and the stimulus and support for historical-political research. Thanks to the one-off funding, the Giuseppe di Vagno Foundation will have the necessary resources for the work of reorganization, computerization, digitization and, more generally, modernisation of its structures and its extraordinary documentary and biographical heritage, which will thus be made permanently and permanently available to the public of scholars and citizens. Italy has an extraordinary cultural heritage spread, made up of documents of the past that need to be revitalized through the study and research of many valid scholars, able also to integrate themselves as valid interlocutors in the national and international historical debate. They are institutions that cultivate collaboration with the public sector and sometimes carry out a real complementing activity, where the public does not arrive, through the provision of libraries, the organization of courses, conferences and the dissemination of knowledge. Many private foundations and research institutions play this role with commitment, but often with great effort. This bill, already approved in the Chamber, therefore, fulfils a task of the public sector and a strong need for memory and knowledge, all the more so in our South, but in any case throughout the country, towards the Mezzogiorno of Italy. For these reasons, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u86	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I would like to express my group's disagreement with the other senators who may wish to do the same: we will not vote in favour of this draft law. Personally, I have a long experience of research in archives and I think we should start to think that the protection of our historical memory does not take place through particular funding to foundations. Moreover, what Mr Montevecchi has explained is to support the continuous hypothesis, then regularly confirmed, on how little transparency is nested in the foundations. I naturally express the highest esteem for Giuseppe Di Vagno, whom I pay homage to; a character like so many others, in our history, who deserve to be studied. They would also deserve that the decrees issued by the various ministers following the Dicastery for Cultural Heritage finally address the subject of libraries and especially archives with a courage never had until now and which instead show that they have in relation to private archives, which often become an opportunity to distribute benefits. Benefits are distributed on the basis of localism that strongly contrasts with the promises of Minister Franceschini, such as that of protecting our musical and opera heritage, which should be protected especially in its most important and certainly not localistic exponents such as Giuseppe Verdi. Minister Franceschini promises and then, instead, contributes to ensure that this fragmented distribution takes place on the territory, which will not be able to have my vote in favour. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u89	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 1569, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u91	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1327, 961, 1109 and 1144. The speakers, Senator Razzi and Senator Chiavaroli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Razzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, draft law No 1327 follows the internationally accepted arrangements of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The aspects considered refer to the particularity of the tax systems of the two territories. The article aims to regulate the fiscal aspects related to the economic relations between Italy and Taiwan, to eliminate the phenomenon of double taxation and to ensure more effective administrative cooperation between the two realities in order to combat tax evasion. Today, in the European Union, we are Taiwan's fifth economic-commercial partner with EUR 2.5 billion in trade in 2013, within the overall EUR 40 billion between the European Union and Taiwan. With no formal diplomatic relations between Italy and Taiwan, it was not possible to sign a genuine bilateral agreement, but the matter can also be regulated through the approval of a special bill, the content of which has been duly agreed between the Italian authorities and those of Taipei. The economy of Taiwan, among the first twenty in the world, is constantly growing, favored by the geostrategic position of the island in the Asia-Pacific area, by the exceptional development of the technological innovations that characterize it and by the strong increase in relations, in all fields, with mainland China, as has also emerged during the bilateral meeting China-Taiwan that took place during the summit of the Asian-Pacific Economic Conference (APEC) met in Beijing in recent days. The two systems differ in particular from the taxation of natural persons applied on the territory of Taiwan on the basis of the principle of territoriality, as well as the lack of recognition of Taiwan as an autonomous political entity. For the profiles of interest of the Commission for Foreign Affairs it can be noted that Article 4 on the concept of "residence of a territory" provides, in accordance with the models of the OECD Conventions, the criterion of effective direction, and that the following Article 5 on the concept of "stable organisation" is in turn consistent with the principles of the international organisation. Article 8 provides that profits deriving from the operation, in international traffic, of maritime and air navigation, as well as profits derived from the use, maintenance and rental of containers which constitute occasional profits compared to those resulting from the operation in international traffic of ships or aircraft, shall be taxed exclusively in the territory in which the actual place of management of the shipping undertaking is situated. The process that led to the current drafting of the bill under consideration dates back to 2012, when the Senate received unanimous consents, but without reaching approval for the end of that legislature. That is why this year's re-submission of the decree, whose substance has passed to the examination of the Commissions gathered 3a and 6a, which has already found approval from 12 countries and others, waiting for sure approval. The law offers a favourable legal orientation for Italian economic operators in Taipei. The decree consists of a series of measures absolutely necessary given the relations between the two countries. In the wing of the criteria recommended by the OECD, the taxation of capital gains (Article 13), income from the pursuit of independent professions, tax treatment of remuneration for employed work (Article 15), up to pensions and other similar remuneration, to name but a few, are based on very important technical aspects, the provisions of Article 26 on the exchange of information. Article 29 (4) also appears to be of interest to the Commission: The staff sent abroad to work at the Taipei Representative Office in Italy and the Italian Office for Economic, Commercial and Cultural Promotion in Taipei, respectively, are subject to taxation only in the paying territory, except where the natural person is resident in the other territory and has its nationality or has not become resident for the sole purpose of rendering the services there. Finally, Article 30 provides that the provisions shall take effect on the date on which the Italian Office for Commercial and Cultural Economic Promotion in Taipei and the Office for Representation in Taipei in Italy will inform themselves that similar internal regulatory provisions have been issued by their respective territories to prevent double taxation. The same provisions shall be effective in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. With the overcoming of banking secrecy and the exchange by the two territories, for each type of tax, including those not included in the legislative forecast, there will be effective systems to combat tax evasion and avoidance specifically provided for in Article 28 with the provision of general anti-abuse provisions. For these and other reasons we look very favorably to the decree on the exemption of double taxation - which we are going to vote on - considering it to be the basis of the increases and developments in economic exchanges between Italy and Taiwan, developments that can only be a source of wealth and work for both countries, and have a fundamental importance to promote the competitiveness of the system of our companies against the competition of those belonging to the 12 European countries that have already adopted it for years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u93	I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u94	Madam President, as far as the Finance Committee is concerned, the draft legislation under consideration contains tax provisions in relation to relations with the territory of Taiwan. In particular, they intend to regulate the fiscal aspects of economic relations between Italy and Taiwan in order to eliminate the phenomenon of double taxation and to ensure more efficient administrative cooperation, in order to combat the phenomenon of tax evasion. The measures, as highlighted in the explanatory report, should therefore constitute a favourable legal framework for Italian economic operators carrying out commercial and financial interchange activities in the territory administered by the Tax Agency, Ministry of Finance of Taipei. The draft laws do not differ, in substance, from the most recent international schemes accepted by the OECD, except in some respects due to particularities of the tax systems of the two territories, such as the taxation of natural persons which is applied in Taiwan on the basis of the principle of territoriality, and the lack of recognition of Taiwan as an autonomous political entity. Government reports show that the choice to adopt regulation based on the OECD model is beneficial for the contribution of certainty that is thus provided to the business world. Turning to the summary of the contents of the measure, composed of 31 articles, it is noted, first of all, that the normative definitions contained therein do not differ in substance from the formulations contained in the OECD model. After Article 1 identifies the scope of the bill, i.e. natural and legal persons residing in one or both of the territories in question, Article 2 considers income taxes to be the amounts collected from the total income or income elements, including profits derived from the alienation of movable or immovable property, taxes on salaries and wages paid by undertakings, and taxes on surplus values. The taxes taken into account are, for the Italian territory, the IRPEF, IRES and IRAP, while for the territory of Taiwan are the income tax of profit-making enterprises, the consolidated income tax of individuals and the basic income tax. Article 4, on the concept of a resident of a territory, provides for the prevailing criterion of effective management, which corresponds more to the principles of Italian tax legislation. It is therefore considered to be a resident of a territory that person who, by virtue of the legislation of the same territory, is subject to tax there on account of his domicile, residence, seat of his management or any other criterion of a similar nature. Article 5 lays down the rules governing the permanent establishment - defined as a fixed place of business through which the undertaking operates in whole or in part - in line with the current OECD standards. In the case of a construction, assembly, installation or supervision site, there is a permanent establishment when the construction site or activity lasts more than six months. Article 6 provides that the taxation of real estate income shall be carried out in favour of the territory in which the buildings are located. Article 7 on the treatment of profits from undertakings provides for the general principle that they are taxable in the territory of the undertaking's residence, with the exception of income produced through a permanent establishment. Article 8 provides that profits arising from the operation, in international traffic, of maritime and air navigation shall be taxed exclusively in the territory in which the actual place of management of the shipping undertaking is situated; Article 9 on the rules governing the profits of associated undertakings shall, inter alia, allow the territories to make adjustments to the tax applied to the profits established and to make the consequent adjustments. Article 10 on dividends lays down the general principle of their taxation in the territory of residence of the recipient. Similarly, for Article 11 on interest, the general principle of their taxation is laid down in the territory of residence of the principal, providing that the latter remain taxable even at source, but limited to a rate which may not exceed 10% of the gross amount of interest; Article 12 on charges also provides for the general principle of taxableness in the territory of residence of the principal, with the possibility of taxation also in the territory of the source with a tax rate limited to 10%. Article 13 regulates the taxation of capital gains. Article 14 provides, for income arising from the pursuit of an independent profession, for the general principle of taxation in the territory of residence; however, it provides for shared taxation in the territory of performance of the activity, in the case of the availability of a fixed basis used for the pursuit of the profession, or if the resident stays in the other territory for periods equal to or greater than 183 days in the year. Article 15 regulates the tax treatment of remuneration for employed work, providing for exclusive taxation in the territory of the worker's residence, unless the activity is carried out in the other territory. Article 16 establishes the taxableness of remuneration, attendance tokens and similar remuneration in the territory of residence of the corresponding company; Article 17 generally establishes that the income of artists and sportsmen resident in the other territory is taxable in the territory of performance of the activity. Article 18 provides that pensions and similar remuneration paid to a resident of a territory shall be taxable exclusively in the territory of the beneficiary's residence, whereas Article 19 on remuneration other than pensions paid in respect of services rendered to a territory provides that they are taxable only in the paying territory. Article 20 concerns remuneration arising from teaching and research activities carried out in the territory of residence by a teacher or teacher who before that stay was resident of the other territory. Article 21 deals with sums received by students or apprentices, whereas Article 22 on other incomes other than those mentioned above provides as a general criterion for the imponibilità in the territory of residence of the person concerned. Article 23 is the central article because it identifies the modalities for the elimination of double taxation: with regard to the taxes applied on the Italian territory and in harmony with our tax system, the ordinary method of imputation is adopted. Article 24 on non-discrimination provides that nationals of one territory must not be subject in the other territory to any taxation or obligation relating to that territory, different or more burdensome than those to which the nationals of that other territory are or may be subject who are in the same situation. Article 25 regulates the friendly procedure, for which the main indications contained in the OECD model have been adopted. Article 26 lays down provisions on the exchange of information, including the extension of that exchange by the two territories to each type of tax. Article 27 contains provisions on the reimbursement of taxes, while Article 28 on the limitation of benefits contains certain general anti-abusive and anti-evasive provisions. Article 30 provides that the rules in question shall take effect from the date on which the Italian Office for Economic Promotion in Taipei and the Office for Representation in Taipei in Italy inform themselves of the adoption by their respective territories of similar internal provisions, regulatory measures to avoid double taxation. Finally, Article 31 provides for the financial coverage of the costs incurred by the measure, estimated at EUR 393,000 per year from 2015, in terms of lower revenue. For all the considerations carried out so far, we urge a rapid approval of this measure, expected by the operators of both countries, so that the trade between Italy and Taiwan can have a decisive acceleration, as happened to the other 25 countries with which Taiwan has activated similar agreements. [[Applause from Senators Malan and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u95	I declare the general discussion open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u96	Madam President, the intention of the text, which, as I hope, we are about to adopt, is only to facilitate trade between our country and the Republic of Taiwan. It is a work that starts from afar and that has not had very lucky paths: it has always arrived at the end of the legislature, crowding a series of measures, which inevitably suffered the outcome of the early closure; they arrived then in the Assembly and were crushed by vicissitudes. In this parliamentary term we have taken action quite early: at the end of the examination of the basic text in Commissions 3a and 6a, the absorption of the other draft laws was proposed, nn. 961, signed by me, 1109, signed by Senator Marinello, and 1144, signed by Senator Malan, who joined the bill presented in February this year by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in agreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are the last of the European countries to ratify such an agreement in order to avoid double taxation. Other countries have done so before us and it would have been a shame not to do so, not for Italian politics, but for Italian companies, considering the extreme interest that this country has for us. Perhaps Senator Razzi has data other than mine: I have data related to 2012, the year in which the trade between the two countries was 3.86 billion dollars, which saw Italy favored, since Taiwan has exported to Italy for 1.83 billion dollars, while we exported to Taiwan for more than 2 billion dollars. We are the fourth European trading partner to Taipei, after Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. It would therefore be a shame not to offer our businesses what these other countries have already allowed. Made in Italy and Italian style are certainly appreciated, but trading with countries where there is no such prerogative and this law is not in force, which provides a favourable legal framework for economic operators, penalizes Italian companies and exports. We have to think that the entrepreneur who wanted to sell with this country to date would have had to pay taxes on profits made in Taiwan. But since the company is Italian, it would have had to pay the profits again on the Italian territory, because so - alas - the law provides. We presenters of the draft legislation on this subject have basically taken and traced the schemes proposed by the OECD for the free trade and non-double taxation treaties, including the taxes which must be subject to this type of special regime. For us it is the classic taxes on companies, people and productions, i.e. IRPEF, IRES and IRAP. For them they are a little different, because they have different terminologies, but they are very similar and similar to ours, always being taxes on people, incomes and businesses. It is very simple to achieve the goal because, if an Italian company or a Taiwanese company were to realize real estate structures in their respective countries, that type of tax is paid where the property is located. It's relatively easy. For the profits of undertakings, the company's residence shall be taken into account. The Italian company that produces profits at this point in Taiwan pays taxes in Italy, that's all. On the other hand, if a company with Taiwanese headquarters, structure and management were to be set up, it would be governed exclusively by the tax law of Taiwan. In detail, maybe we shouldn't even go in there. I would also like to give an example in the maritime field: exchanges between shipping companies, both maritime and air, would be taxed on the territory where the actual seat of the shipping company's management is located. We hope that this measure will finally see the light. It has had vicissitudes due precisely to politics, to the fall of the legislature. We approved, no question, I do not know how many free trade agreements to avoid double taxation. Let us hope that at least this is the right time and that the measure before us can finally see the light. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u97	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Gianluca. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Undersecretary, it must be said that the draft laws under discussion today take account of the lack of recognition by the Italian State of Taiwan as an autonomous political entity. However, with the support of conventional models accepted by the OECD, it adapts them to the peculiarities of the tax systems of the two companies concerned. As regards the growth in the volumes of trade to which colleagues have also referred and the possibility of increasing the industrial potential of both countries, the introduction of the draft law under consideration constitutes a favourable legal framework for Italian economic operators operating in Taiwan. Italy, in fact, is the fourth European trading partner of Taiwan after Germany, Holland and the United Kingdom, and is placed in the 27th position in the world ranking, with over 3.8 billion dollars. The figure for exports to Taiwan amounts to USD 0.02 billion. In the 1980s Taiwan produced an estimate of nine out of ten laptops sold worldwide. The impact of the global economic crisis has seriously undermined this productive sector, which constitutes a large part of the country's input, and now this economy tries to focus on other sectors, focusing on innovation, start-ups and research. This is particularly difficult for a system which suffers from competition from manufacturing centres such as China and Vietnam and remains incardinated on exports. In order to promote industrial research and development in this sector, the Government has promoted the establishment of science parks, specific areas with tax incentives, rates and preferential fees to attract investments that many Italian companies can and could benefit from. I remember that companies such as AnsaldoBreda, Danieli, Bulgari, Gucci, Versace, Armani, Dolce and Gabbana and Cucinelli are included in the list of ICE Taipei offices. From the fiscal point of view, the draft law under discussion addresses and solves a number of the most insidious problems, such as double taxation, which penalise the full development of economic and trade relations between the two countries. Of particular interest to the competence of the Commission for finance, as Mrs Chiavaroli pointed out, are the following Articles: Article 6, which provides that the taxation of real estate income is to be carried out in favour of the territory in which the buildings are located; Article 7, which concerns the treatment of business profits, providing for the general principle that they are taxable in the territory of residence of the undertaking, with the exception of those produced through a permanent establishment; Article 23, which identifies the arrangements for the elimination of double taxation; Article 25, which governs the friendly procedure; Article 26, which contains provisions on the exchange of information, providing for the extension of such exchange by the two territories to all types of tax. The rule would provide the legal basis for stepping up administrative cooperation, inter alia by allowing banking secrecy to be overcome in accordance with OECD standards. This is undoubtedly a key element for Taiwan's entry into the white list. In conclusion, I also think this text is important, because it strengthens the bases of trade between the two countries, however, by abolishing a series of tax principles that, on the one hand, allow greater clarity in transactions and, on the other, bring Taiwan closer to the standards of countries fully registered to the tax white lists. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Battista.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u99	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u102	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, without repeating everything that we have already said and thanking the House for the progress of the work, I declare the support of the Group of the North League in the hope of being able to make a contribution to Italian companies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u105	MARINELLO (NCD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the New Centre Group by referring to all the considerations which my colleague has already mentioned at the start of his work. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u108	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura, urging the Government to take action to ensure that the European Commission follows the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in order to request that talks between the European Union and Taiwan be opened as soon as possible, which will enable the agreements on investment protection to be drawn up. This would further increase Italy's trade opportunities with Taiwan. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u111	TONINI (PD). Madam President, taking up Mr Rossi's reasons in a very broad way, which highlighted the importance for our economy and for our country of an ever closer relationship with Taiwan, I would like to announce the support of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u114	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u115	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 1327, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 961, 1109 and 1144.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u116	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1554, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u117	Madam President, the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, brings about the ratification of the Agreement between Italy and Gibraltar on the exchange of information in tax matters. The Agreement with Gibraltar, signed in October 2012, follows the model of agreements in this field drawn up by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in the framework of initiatives for fiscal transparency. It is therefore in line with the guidelines shared by Italy in the various multilateral fora for the strengthening of instruments to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion. The purpose of the agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the two parties through an exchange of information on taxation, which is necessary to ensure that adequate levels of transparency are achieved. There has been no recourse to the conclusion of a genuine Convention against double taxation because trade between the two countries is very small. In this respect, the Agreement is part of the framework of those agreements, for the identification of States with a tax regime in accordance with the standards of legality adopted by the European Union, which are particularly important for the consequences that might arise in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion. The Agreement consists of thirteen articles, the first of which define the object and scope of the agreement, the jurisdictional areas and taxes which are the subject of the possible exchange of information, that is, the tax on the income of individuals, the tax on the income of companies, the regional tax on productive activities, the tax on value added, the tax on inheritances, the tax on donations and substitute taxes. Article 4 provides a framework of definitions necessary to eliminate possible interpretative discrepancies, while Article 5 regulates the procedures for the exchange of information, regulating in detail the types of information that may be required and providing, inter alia, for the overcoming of banking secrecy. The subsequent Articles 6 and 7 provide for the possibility for the parties to carry out tax checks in their respective territories, as well as for the detailed assumptions in which it is possible for one of the parties to avoid the disclosure request. Article 8 lays down a principle of confidentiality in the management and exchange of information, while Article 9 stipulates that the ordinary costs of providing information shall be borne by the requested party, the extraordinary costs borne by the applicant, including a commitment to occasional consultation between the competent authorities on these aspects. The concluding Articles require the Parties to adopt the internal legislative amendments necessary to implement the bilateral understanding (Article 10), lay down the procedures for the amicable settlement of any disputes arising from the application and interpretation of the text (Article 11), and regulate the time limits for entry into force and possible termination of the Agreement (Articles 12 and 13). The draft law of ratification consists of three articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution and the entry into force. No article is expressly devoted to financial cover, because the measure does not involve any expenditure or establishment of new offices. In this respect, it is clear that the costs referred to in Article 9 of the Entente, as already with other legislative texts of similar content already approved, present only a very possible nature. The Agreement is in line with the joint actions undertaken in the framework of the G20 and the OECD on strengthening the instruments to combat the phenomenon of tax evasion. Its rapid approval would therefore represent a significant step forward in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance in tax havens, allowing Gibraltar, as a contracting foreign party, to be included in the white lists of states and territories with a tax regime that complies with the standards of legality and transparency adopted by the European Union. For this reason, too, the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously approved it. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u118	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as neither the rapporteur nor the representative of the Government intends to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u121	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, the bilateral agreement with Gibraltar, for which the Senate House is called to speak, aims to facilitate the exchange of tax information between the two countries, with the aim of combating the phenomenon of contributory evasion. Gibraltar, as is well known, is a continental, European dependence on the British Crown, but it is not the territory of the European Union, as those who are trying to reach it from Spain are well aware, and are subtracting themselves from the hostility of the Spanish customs officers. Precisely as such, the Fortress has created the reputation of being a tax and financial paradise, in a way that is not different from the Channel Islands; hence the ambition to intervene in order to break the gap on the Italian side. Let us make it clear that the bilateral agreement does not impose additional burdens on the state budget, nor does it entail the creation of new offices or structures. Therefore, there seems to be no particular reason to oppose it, firstly because it is clear that the possible tax evasion in Gibraltar cannot certainly be a form of police harassment of the ordinary citizen or the small businessman, to whom we have always opposed as a political movement. We like the fact that one of the effects of the Agreement is to strengthen the legitimacy of Gibraltar, whose population has repeatedly made known its opinion on the political future of the Rock, strongly rejecting the idea of returning to Spain. We of the North League are friends of the peoples who determine themselves and we hope that the agreement with the Rock will give the desired fruits. We shall therefore vote in favour of ratification. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u124	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u127	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the PD Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u130	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u131	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u132	Colleagues, since there are many requests for the end of the sitting and the deadline is set at 8 p.m., I shall refer the remaining items to the agenda for another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of the 5 Star Movement Group has informed the Presidency of his intention to request the inclusion in the timetable of the work of the draft law n. 1384 ('Amendments to the penal code in the matter of limitation of offences') pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. In this regard, it is pointed out in the first place that the Senate Justice Commission has begun the examination of the measure - made precisely by the 5 Star Movement Group, pursuant to article 79, paragraph 1, of the Regulation - on 22 October 2014. With a subsequent letter dated 28 October 2014, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, in communicating that the Justice Commission of that branch of Parliament had already begun the examination of draft laws on similar matters, asked to promote the procedures of the agreements pursuant to Articles 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, and 78 of the Rules of the Chamber. Acquired the assent of the President of the Senate Justice Commission, Senator Palma, the President of the Senate, by letter of 7 November, informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies that, in accordance with the practice for which priority is reserved to the branch of Parliament that first began the legislative procedure, it was agreed that the examination should be continued by the Justice Commission of the Chamber itself. Furthermore, it has been pointed out, on the advice of President Palma, that certain rules on the limitation of offences are contained in the unified text drawn up by the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, on the draft law on corruption, money laundering and fraud in the budget, the progress of which is being made in the Senate's Justice Commission, so that the approval of the Chamber of Deputies' Commission can take this into account, in order to ensure the necessary coherence of regulatory intervention. Therefore, for the reasons set out above, the request made by Senator Airola is not admissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u136	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to take advantage of today's day, 25 November, dedicated to the fight against violence against women, also taking advantage of the presence of Undersecretary Pistelli to ask him to stand up for the European Commissioner Federica Mogherini, because I believe that Europe can and should do much about a situation that is becoming increasingly frequent in many parts of the world... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u137	Colleagues, please, I would ask you to leave the Chamber, if not in silence, at least so that Senator Puppato can make his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u138	[[Brusio]] Colleagues, a little silence otherwise the speeches at the end of the sitting are not possible to listen to. Please, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). I said that, although in European and Italian reality in particular, in this period, we can be particularly happy for the international successes of science, of figures of great stature, such as Samantha Cristoforetti, who we sent, so to speak, to make the star aboard a ship around the space, and like Fabiola Gianotti, who we had at the top of the world's highest physical authority in Europe, we must, however, open a parenthesis with respect to what is happening in the world and in particular in a country like Turkey, which would like to enter Europe, which is at the gates of Europe, which is in fact a part of our continent and which today manifests unwillingness even to consider women as belonging to that universe able to compete, exist, progress, learn and therefore make available with profit their skills in order to improve this humanity. It is no coincidence that, in addition to ISIS, we have seen how Boko Haram has produced in Nigeria a progressive enslavement of entire areas of that country, preventing women from going to school and girls from being able to live their lives and grow up in freedom. In these days, between the end of October and the beginning of November, we have seen how Darfur has been the scene of mass rapes of girls from the seven years up, who have been subjected to this violence by the army of Sudan. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). I would like to conclude immediately by appealing to Minister Mogherini: that he represents a Europe capable of promoting human and civil rights and representing in the world a beacon of civilizations, without bowing down and without granting to any country, no matter how much he can ask to be part of Europe, to afford a human and civil cultural retreat by preventing the woman from being able to exist and represent the best of herself, in view of the fact that, as Mao Tse-tung said, in an almost perfect way, we are the other part of heaven, and it is a mysterious and extraordinary part, the most sensitive and capable of evolving in a world of this kind. Those who, once again, are afraid of women are well aware that women do not intend to extinguish themselves, close down and erase themselves by virtue of violence of all kinds, even physical ones, which continue to be perpetrated and become increasingly heavy in too many parts of the world. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u141	Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the night between Saturday and Sunday there was a vile assault at a Democratic Party headquarters in the Favaro district of La Spezia, a very popular neighborhood, where that headquarters was open not only to carry out physiological political action, but also to offer a service to citizenship in a free, democratic and plural way. I realize that by using these terms I am very far removed from the thought of the so-called No TAV, as they have signed. I wonder what the TAV has to do with La Spezia, given the distance of this city from the fast railway that passes from Turin and goes to Lyon. At most (I see Senator Barani), we could aspire to Pontremolese, which is a stretch of railway that connects the Po Valley to the Tyrrhenian Sea. Having said that, I believe that these cowardly and cowardly attacks should not be allowed to pass on to the seats of political parties, to all political parties, because they, like political parties, are principals of democracy where, in a very free, plural and democratic way, politics is discussed and services are provided. So, Madam President, I believe that it is not only important to politically stigmatize this yet another attack, but also to isolate in society these cowardly and cowardly violent attitudes that avoid political confrontation and democratic confrontation, and result only in devious and nocturnal attacks against places where democracy takes place seriously. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Maggio. Ironic comments by Senator Ciampolillo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u142	Senator Caleo, the Presidency joins his words and expresses solidarity with all those who carry out political activities at the headquarters of the Democratic Party of Favaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u145	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, my speech takes up the subject that has already been discussed at the sitting, in order to try to remember that the fight against violence against women is far from having taken it decisively and above all to be at least remotely victorious. I would give a title: the unwitting ads. It is a title to which, unfortunately, we are very accustomed. This should be the bitter conclusion of today, actually. In cauda venenum they said the Latins, and here is the venenum: to date, of the 17 million allocated for this important and praiseworthy goal between 2013 and 2014, then reduced by more than half a million for reasons of savings from the same coalition of Government that had allocated them, the antiviolence centers and the shelter houses received nothing. Only promises, conferences, condolences, recollection, while the figures on violence have doubled since July. On 1 August I tabled a motion, signed by a number of representatives of various political forces represented in this House, which, in paragraph 1, called for the delegation for equal opportunities to be given immediately, which the President of the Council had maintained; a request which fell into total indifference. Of course the motion has not been and probably will not be scheduled, but it may also be that, although not calendarized, the motions somehow perform their function of moving and thus shaking this indifference. On the other hand, no delegation was given on 1 October informally, free of charge, which is certainly commendable, to Mr Martelli of the PD, who tells us that, on 27 November, at the State-Regions Conference, he plans to outline the main points of the National Anti-Violence Plan and define criteria and other things, and that the final Plan will be launched in January. So we wasted time, especially we lost lives, we lost dignity and accumulated pain and worry. To date we do not know how and when these funds will be distributed, which, with so much glory, have still been remembered in this House as a victory in a fight that cannot only be a sporadic struggle, but must be part of the whole system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish your speech, Senator Mussini. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I shall conclude, Madam President. I remember - and I am not doing this for my own sake because I am not the first signatory - that the Senate Act No. 724 is under discussion in the Commissions and Constitutional Affairs, which, on the other hand, would tackle in a global and definitive way, giving a whole series of responses which are represented in my motion and which should constitute the real framework for a general and synergistic struggle against a phenomenon that is cultural, but devastating. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u148	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, the press informs us that yet another sanatoria on gambling is coming in the transition to the Senate of the Stability Act. The betting centers that have operated connected with foreign bookmakers without Italian license will be able to put in place until 2016 paying 10,000 euros. The time has come for Matthew Renzi, as President of the Council and Secretary of the Democratic Party, to throw out the mask and for the men of good will of his party to take a stand. In the regions where they are in opposition, PD advisors propose laws to limit at least a little the gambling market. In the Social Affairs Committee in the House, MPs of the PD show, in words, good will, but the law for the cure and prevention of pathological gambling is firm. Weird! The government said there was money for health care. I'll take a step back. Do you remember the amendment against the mayors No slots? We denounced the subtle attempt, but the majority and the Democratic Party voted in favour. Matthew Renzi, then seeking to bring down the Letta Government, made the scandalized and took the credit of dropping the decree. The press today shows that, as President-in-Office of the Council, it is rocketing in the same way: I am telling you, so that every colleague has time to become aware and ponder how much he can sacrifice his conscience to the interests of the party and everyone is active so that this does not happen. A few weeks ago, Renzi announced more taxes on slot machines and videolottery to pay for the health costs caused. Lobby has reacted: if taxes increase, revenue drops. But what do you want them to say? But can we, can we, uh, keep up an industry that destroys a country and doesn't even pay for the material damage caused? But that's it. Renzi is going to take back the ads. The money he hoped to make will no longer be taken from the slot machines; in exchange for the umpteenth favor, he will take them this time to the rooms without an Italian license. It is yet another gift, yet another pardon, yet another slap of the soldier mocking in the face of the honest and the Italy that ransacks. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u151	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, Carrara cannot rely on the wheel of fortune. If in eleven years there have been four serious floodings of the Carrione stream, it is not because Carrara is an unfortunate city: this is the bitter balance of the inadequacy of a local administration that has seen the same protagonists for twenty years. Few families manage marble quarries and therefore have a considerable advantage, while the rest of the citizenship is on the pavement, even more so today, after the last and yet another flood. The Command of the fire department of Massa, in January 2013, had presented a written report on the criticalities of the embankment, alerting the City, the Province, the Region, the prefect and the proxy with these words: It is intended to inform the authorities at the address (...) the need to carry out the necessary checks... in order to ascertain whether there are other embankments of the Carrion stream carried out in the same manner (...), because if this were the case, the danger of the occurrence of other collapses in the event of future floods is substantial and serious. But no one did anything to avoid disaster. It is necessary to shed light on the responsibilities of all the actors involved, first of all the mayor Angelo Zubbani, who has limited himself to acting as a letterhead between the City and the Province and who, in front of the exasperated citizens, has stated in a provocative way that the Municipality has no responsibility. The mayor is always responsible for the health and safety of his citizens, as well as being the head of civil protection at municipal level, even more so if his party, the PSI, holds key positions in the Province, such as Mr. Fabrizio Magnani, former vice president. The territory of Massa Carrara has picturesque political dynamics. Here are some examples. In a survey on the procurement of the Magra river the name of the aforementioned Magnani, now secretary of the deputy minister Nencini and father of the current mayor of Aulla (see the newspaper "Il secolo XIX"). The presidency of the provincial commission of inquiry for the collapse of the embankment is entrusted to Juri Gorlandi, vice president of the City Council of Aulla. Ciliegina on the cake, the appointment in the aforementioned commission, as representative of the president of the province, of the councilor of the Municipality of Carrara Lucio Boggi of the PD, investigated for misappropriation in an affair concerning the sale of a marble company. A nice mix of good politics! The local 5 Star Movement presented a motion of distrust to the mayor, which will never be discussed because the opposition does not have the numbers. We in this House have asked for a ministerial inquiry with a question and for the possible extraordinary commissioning of the municipality. But, as usual, the Ministry will not answer, the investigations will be long (perhaps slowed down to get to the prescription). Waiting for answers to the citizens there is nothing left but to continue with the peaceful permanent garrison at the hall of representation of the City, so as not to turn off that beacon of attention that was finally turned on on Carrara. Thank you, citizens! I would also like to ask for permission to attach to the report the letter from the Fire Departments that has appeared in all the newspapers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u154	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I will read an email that was sent to me exactly on 20 November: I named Nicola Morra, who wrote had the opportunity to speak to her in Cosenza, exactly on the pedestrian island of Corso Mazzini. I told you my situation, which is the following. I worked, from 1986 to 2008, at the Confcooperative Calabria, and then, from 2008 to 2013, at the Terme Sibarite in Cassano allo Ionio. Since 2013 they have been on the move by way of derogation, along with about 27,000 people who, of course, live in a state of material and psychological misery, having also lost the dignity of human beings. The National Government and that of the Calabria Region have allocated the necessary funds to deal with the solution of the problem but, as is well known, everything has remained dead letter. No worker from Calabria, unlike those from other Italian regions, has received a single penny of euro since October 2013. It should be added that, in addition to what has been said, the Calabria region has never designed a serious active policy plan to solve the long-standing and serious problem that afflicts thousands of people, almost all with wives and dependent children. To remember the meeting held in Rome on 12 November 2014 between the Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council, Mr Delrio, and the representatives of the trade unions in Calabria. At that meeting, it was agreed to allocate the necessary funds to meet the needs until the end of 2013. Unfortunately, until today everything has remained still. It should also be emphasized that among the thousands of workers there are in particular those who, like those who write to you, having an age no longer young and still far from retirement, do not know where to bang their heads to meet the most basic needs of daily living. Given that on November 14 the union delegations of a Region that would have gone to the vote on November 23, and I do not think the maximum of political correctness, I have to ask this Executive and the entire Italian State whether after having had to hear, by the mouth of Matteo Renzi, that the enormous increase of abstentionism is to be considered a secondary problem, we should not even expect some other tweets in which it is said that social exasperation and the consequent despair are simply a reason for itching, in short, of the buzzes, that sooner or later, even if giving annoyance, will pass. I would not like to see a fierce day in this House, which so many people in this House can remember and which many perhaps feel the moral conscience - perhaps! - to have to fight. I therefore ask that this situation be called upon once again by the ministries in charge, because frankly it seems shameful to me that 27 000 Italian citizens - but even 27, this would not diminish the scandal - have such a situation to start. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u157	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, in theory, questions and questions should serve to ensure that the government can respond in good time to the questions raised. Unfortunately, this was not the case for the questioning presented by the Group of the New Right Centre, which concerned an important subject such as education, namely the National Week against Violence and Discrimination, organized by the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), the LGBT Service, other bodies and the Department for Equal Opportunities, and with which we asked to know exactly how this event would take place, given that this National Week would also deal with gender theory. We then discovered that tomorrow there is a training course on the National Strategy for the prevention and contrast of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, to which all the regional and provincial leaders of the Ministry are invited, and that unfortunately is managed by the UNAR, which as you know is the body of the Presidency of the Council that by law should be exclusively interested in race and ethnicity, but which is also unduly interested in issues related to homophobia, and that, as you know, last year was censored because it had printed those notorious booklets, which, like the then Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy War, had to note, censoring the director of the UNAR De Giorgi, had been printed without the Presidency of the Council and the Ministry of Education having come to know about it. Those booklets contained unacceptable provocations and accusations to the family, religion, school and society to foment homophobia and of course they were all to spread the ideology of gender. This seminar, as it turns out in the proceedings, is all managed by the UNAR, the reports will be edited by the LGTB Service of Turin, the speakers are activists of the gay movement, because as we know the UNAR has as consultants only dozens of gay associations. There is no other body of the school (doctors or educators, parents, teachers' unions or associations) that has been minimally involved in the management of something that in the public school should be impartial. In the statutes of the UNAR it is written, by law, that it must be impartial. The fight against discrimination, violence, bullying and homophobia is a very delicate thing and has nothing to do with the attempt to indoctrinate on gender theory, beginning with the high levels of public education, also teaching the correct language: to say "utero for rent" is bad? It is necessary to call it "supporting pregnancy," and so on. We're even at Minculpop! We have come to mitigate and mystify reality through an unacceptable attempt and for this reason we have asked - not only us, but all the associationism not sided with the LGBT world - to suspend this course and remodulate it democratically, having it managed by all the members of the school, because the public school cannot be a field of indoctrination of the children by associations deployed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I believe that in any case the Presidency will have to deal sooner or later with the question of the timeliness of the responses to the acts of inspection union, because I think that there are many more similar ones besides this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u158	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-358.ana.u159	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 26 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.51 a.m.
