ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 26 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u4	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, in accordance with article 19 of the legislative decree n. 533, to the allocation of the vacant seats in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Campania Regions following the resignation of the senators Isabella De Monte and Alessandra Mussolini found, in today's sitting, that the candidates who immediately follow the last of the elected in the progressive order of the lists to which the aforementioned senators belonged are respectively Laura Fasiolo and Domenico Auricchio. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and proclaim Senators Laura Fasiolo and Domenico Auricchio. [[Applause]] I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints to be lodged will begin today with regard to the new proclamations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u5	I have read the outcome of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. [[Brusio]] A little silence, please. The Conference of Leaders, which met this afternoon, approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 17 July. This afternoon, after the deliberations on the constitutionality of the competitiveness decree-law, the motions on celiac disease and the documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities will be discussed. In order to enable the examination of these measures to be completed, the sitting shall not include closing hours. The debate on the draft law on craft enterprises, already on the agenda for today's sitting, will not take place because the Commission has not yet concluded its examination. In the afternoon session of tomorrow will be discussed the draft law of ratification Italy-China in the matter of judicial assistance. The rest of the week, as well as Tuesday 8 July, will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to those engaged in the discussion of draft laws concerning constitutional reform, delegation of work and decree-law competitiveness. The question time with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy is confirmed for the afternoon of Thursday 3 July, which will answer questions on active labour policies and discipline and financing of social shock absorbers. Next week, starting with the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 9 July, the Assembly will begin the examination of the constitutional reform bill, where concluded by the Commission. In the week from 15 to 17 July, in addition to the follow-up to the examination of the constitutional reform bill, will be discussed the decree-competitiveness law and the bill delegates work. In the afternoon of Thursday 17 July, questions will be answered immediately pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure. It is recalled that Parliament is convened at 12 noon on Thursday 3 July for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There will be a single call that will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2014. - Laws of conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Settlement and Statement of the budget of the State - Internal budget and accounts of the Senate - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Drawing of law no. 112 - Provisions concerning disciplinary responsibility of magistrates and the transfer of office - Drawings of law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Provisions on corruption, vote of exchange, fake budget and money laundering - Draft law no. 264 and related - Rules for the establishment and discipline of the "company of living heritage" trademark - Drawing of constitutional law No. 1429 and related - Provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of the second part of the Constitution (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Draft law No. 1428 and related - Delegations to the Government on the reform of social shock absorbers, labour services and active policies, as well as on the reorganization of working relationships and support for maternity and the reconciliation of living and working time (final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups also adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current calendar and the new schedule of Senate proceedings until 17 July 2014: [[Tuesday 1 July pom. h. 16,30 - Deliberation on the presuppositions of constitutionality ex article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, on the bill n. 1541 - Decree-Law n. 91, competitiveness - Motions on celiac disease - Documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity Wednesday 2 July ant. h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 1332 - Ratifica Italia-China in the matter of judicial assistance Thursday 3 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on: - active labour policies - discipline and financing of social shock absorbers]] Parliament shall be convened at 12 noon on Thursday 3 July for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The senators will vote first. [[Wednesday 9 July ant. h. 9,30-13,30 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 10 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1429 and related (Constitutional Reform) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 15 July ant. h. 11-13,30 - Following constitutional bill n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1541 - Decree-Law n. 91, competitiveness (Final vote by 25 July) (It falls on 23 August) - Drawing of law n. 1428 and related - Delegation of work (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 17 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to bill No 1541 (Decree-Law No 91, competitiveness) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Monday 14 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1428 and related amendments (Delega lavoro) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1541 (Decree-Law No 91, competitiveness) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 33' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 43' Mixed 37' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not voted on this somewhat provisional timetable because, among other things, as you have now told the House, all the scheduled measures for next week in the Commission have not yet been concluded. Mr President, let us remind the House that Thursday, July 3, expires the month by which the Government was to present the so-called anti-corruption decree. This announcement, as you will recall, had blocked the Commission's work on the draft law and resulted in the removal of the measure from the timetable. The month has almost expired and the Government has announced that it has drawn up a reform proposal which must be submitted to a number of consultations, but we believe that it is a priority to address this issue, also given the commitment that had been made by the House if the month had expired. That is why we believe, Mr President, that the draft anti-corruption law can be placed on the agenda for the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 8 July. Furthermore, the draft Constitutional Reform Act is still at the Commission's attention and needs a very detailed debate, but in the timetable scenario that you have presented there are only three sittings: Wednesday 8, Thursday 9 and the following Tuesday. We therefore call for the next week, between Wednesday and Thursday, to conclude the examination of the anti-corruption bill and to move for the following week, during the sessions from 15 to 17 July, the constitutional reforms until the conclusion of the discussion (I think that there is a need to resume the discussion even after, but the week that you indicated is only the one from 15 to 17 July) and in the following week to examine the decree on competitiveness, because it expires, moving forward the delegation of work. The variation that we propose is therefore the following: in the sessions from 9 to 10 July, instead of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, we ask that we examine the draft anti-corruption law and begin the examination of the constitutional reform in the following week, in the sessions from 15 to 17 July, with continuation in the following week.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u13	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate has already suffered a month and a half ago the delay of a week of the Commission's work on the draft anti-corruption law on crimes against public administration, the crime of self-laundering and the crime of fake money laundering, to be re-introduced into the legal system. This was done by virtue of an amendment which the Government has produced and which we have already publicly denounced as a photocopy, i.e. a copy-paste, of an amendment signed by some PD senators who were already present in the Commission. Then there was the announcement of a bill on the crime of fake in the budget which, as is well known, imposed the suspension of work in the Justice Commission, and consequently in the Chamber, for a month. The month will expire on July 3, the day after tomorrow. Last night, in the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers on the draft of the great reform of justice, which should begin on 1 September, we were confirmed that the announced intention to intervene with a bill by the Government in the matter of fake in the budget is a lie. We take note of that. We knew it; we predicted it. At this point, all we have to do is insist on regaining control as Parliament of the anti-corruption package, to give the country, which has been waiting in vain for many, too many weeks, a response to the scandals that daily fill our chronicles. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement Group calls for the change of the agenda of the proceedings of the Chamber, with the inclusion, in the following week, of the anti-corruption package (law no. 19 and related). At the Conference of the Leaders I also pointed out that, if the Government considers that it is intervening and has prepared a valid proposal on the crime of fraud in the budget, it can do so by tabling an amendment, without having to wait until 1 September as a hypothetical date, indicated in the announcements of the President of the Council. In this case, if the government wanted and wanted to intervene by amendment, we would also be well advised to include the debate and approval of the anti-corruption package in the next week's calendar (i.e. from 15 July). Therefore, there is a request to replace the anti-corruption package for the coming week instead of the vote on constitutional reforms. As an alternative, we will decide on the outcome of a new Conference of Leaders, which will probably be requested by my political group at the outcome of the determinations of the Justice Commission, which - I doubt not, even if President Palma is not now - taking note of the government's failure to respect the commitment to intervene with its own bill will do nothing but continue with the work that has now been completed (I remember that only the vote on the amendments is scheduled). So, in one or two sessions at most, even at night, which we will be able to fix in the next few days, we will be ready as early as next week. Finally, I will repeat a request already made at the Conference of the Leaders: I am referring to the inclusion in the timetable of work (at least until 17 July) of the examination and vote of draft law n. 131, on the abolition of the Provinces, as well as the motion of distrust to Minister Lorenzin, already filed on 18 June last (motion n. 278). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u16	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, I am sorry, but I am speaking because I have the feeling of something surreal. I listened to the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, as you explained, and also to those colleagues who had not voted on the timetable proposal. Today a fishing vessel with thirty deaths from asphyxiation on board has landed on the territory of our country. The mayor of the town involved, Pozzallo, with a heart full of emotion and with the despair of those who are called to fulfill a duty not knowing how to carry it out, does not know what the aim is to make the bodies of thirty people who have lost their lives in a further tragedy that has been consumed in our sea. Another 566 people have landed and our Forces of Order are engaged beyond spasm, with unspeakable difficulties, giving beyond themselves and, in a mission that is not only of work: for them it has become a mission also of their own feeling and of their own humanity. The prefect, the quaestor, the forces of order, volunteering, simple citizens and young people are rushing: this is what happens in these hours in our country. There are dead who must be buried and we cannot do it; There are, among police officers and law enforcement, five suspicious cases of TB, so an incredible medical emergency involving our populations. We read desperation not only in those who arrive but also in those who host: the Sicilians weep in seeing these scenes, and weep in despair in seeing that there is no strong and serious response from the State. To the Government, which is present here, but above all to the Conference of the Leaders and to you President of the Senate and second office of the State, I signal the necessity and even more the urgency of this issue, more than all the other fundamental and important points for the Republican life. There is a life of the nation that consists of episodes and fundamental moments; the life of a nation is also made up of moments like this, in which a ruling class, a Parliament, a popular representation can give adequate answers. I believe that now, hic et nunc, now and now, we need a clear answer. The Conference of Leaders, if necessary, meets again, but today Italy, as representatives of the Italian people, must expect new forces to arrive in support of that part of our country. There needs to be an intergroup that deals with health and health in that territory; it is necessary that today we all feel Country and all Italy today is there in Pozzallo to receive thirty bodies, but above all to bear witness to our great, ancient, but always current civilization. [[Applause from the LAG, M5S and PI groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u17	Thank you, Senator Mauro. On behalf of the Senate, we express our solidarity and our participation in this painful event. I put to the vote the proposal, made by Senator De Petris, to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings with the inclusion, on Wednesday 8 July, of the anti-corruption bill and the postponement of the examination of constitutional reforms for a week, for 15-17 July. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u20	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a counterproof. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, the Secretary Senators tell me that they have no doubt about the outcome of the vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). But they have no doubt, Mr President, but you know the value of counterproof. Allow me this request once in a while. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Every now and then I give it to him, but this time the outcome is so obvious... PETROCELLI (M5S). I hope you will allow it in the next vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u21	All right, Senator Petrocelli. I put to the vote the proposal, made by Senator Buccarella, to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, with the inclusion, on Wednesday 8 July, of the bill anti-corruption and the bill of abolition of the Provinces, as well as the motion of distrust against Minister Lorenzin. It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u22	We greet the group of the parish "Santa Maria della Neve" of Bastia, in the province of Padua. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u23	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law no. 1541: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the agricultural sector, environmental protection and energy efficiency of school and university buildings, the revitalization and development of enterprises, the reduction of costs on electricity tariffs, as well as for the immediate definition of compliances deriving from European legislation. At its meeting on 26 June the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Russo, if you're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to refer to the report that has been carried out in the course of the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u25	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u28	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another request from the Government to convert into law a decree-law that is a real omnibus decree. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, Mr President, but it is a little difficult to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u29	Colleagues, please allow Senator Bisinella to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u30	Bisinella (LN-Aut). What happened in the Commission on 26 June with regard to this decree-law is yet another case in which we come across it. It is not in fact the first time - indeed, unfortunately it has become a well-established practice of this Government, as of the previous one - that are presented to the Commissions and in the Assembly of the decree-laws that are real omnibus decrees, with the most varied provisions and with a truly complex regulatory body, of difficult understanding already for us, that in the context of the parliamentary activity that we do all together we place ourselves a bit like the professionals, let us imagine therefore for the citizens. We are faced with yet another case in which we have to question the distortions in application practices of what is prescribed by the Constitution. The presuppositions of extraordinary necessity and urgency, which our Constitution prescribes for the use of the decree of urgency, do not apply in this case either. I would like to point out to my colleagues that, already reading the title of the measure, it is clear that the content and the legislative body of the decree are absolutely not in line and are totally uneven, bringing provisions that intervene in the most disparate sectors: from the agricultural and wine sector to the energy network and energy, from infrastructure to the environment, up to the rules, which we often find inside the omnibus decrees, such as those on the mozzarella di bufala bell. All this to say that the requirement of homogeneity is completely absent. In the Commission, we also discussed another aspect. Many of the rules contained in the decree do not even present the requirement of urgency, in the sense that, if in some respects certain rules might also have an emerging character - which should be the substance of the use of the decree of urgency - in many other cases the own provisions are not justified from the point of view of the extraordinary urgency and the need to provide through the use of this instrument. We wonder why the Government did not intend, for example, to unpack the measure in two different measures, thus allowing for those provisions that do not have the character of emergency and urgency a parliamentary process and a more detailed examination in the appropriate Commissions, perhaps grouping the various provisions divided by sectors into autonomous measures. This would allow us to look more calmly and in detail at the various rules, including by making the necessary changes. On the other hand, they could have been kept in a more slender decree-law - and therefore even more intelligible and easier to understand - those rules which, on the other hand, really present the character of extraordinary necessity. This is to say that the Government continues not to maintain its commitment even at the moment when Prime Minister Renzi presented himself with his address to the Chambers, when he asked for confidence, announcing that he would have resorted in an absolutely sporadic way and only for cases of strict necessity to the decree of urgency; instead we see that he continues the practice of adopting in the everyday experience the decree-law as a now ordinary instrument of government action and this is not acceptable. At this point we ask ourselves, even in the prerogatives of the Head of State to sign the decree-laws, how is it possible that no different consideration is given to the admissibility of measures which, I repeat, are real omnibus measures. Let us imagine, in the impact on citizens of this kind, the difficulty of understanding, as well as the fact that the possibility of a thorough parliamentary examination is cut off. I would remind you that not only in the past years the Head of State has repeatedly spoken with precise references, but that there are decisions of the Constitutional Court, last of all the 2012 ruling that we have repeatedly recalled in this House, which identify and clarify very well how the use of the decree of urgency should be understood, namely a regulatory body that must be read as a whole as a single, a unitary body, which must present and comply with the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution in all its parts, maintain homogeneity and not be so fragmented. I repeat for the umpteenth time that we in the Commission are embarrassed to have to pronounce on the constitutionality of decree-laws which are not subject to these requirements, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself, also in this House, has presented guidelines and guidelines, strictly speaking against this practice and calling on the Government to make a precise commitment. We therefore reiterate here, as already in the Commission, our opposition to the existence of constitutional conditions, but above all we demand and demand that the Government maintain the commitment it has made in this very Chamber. I therefore also call on my colleagues, including those of the Democratic Party, to point out to their representatives of the Government the commitments they had made, because it is impossible to think that with the instrument of urgent decree, with the excuse of having to intervene for the economic crisis in certain sectors under the impulse of necessity, an in-depth investigation activity is absolutely prevented and that we find ourselves converted into law measures that bear the most disparate provisions, to the point that we are not even able to understand exactly what they really contain. I do not believe that this is in line with the need for clarity and transparency towards the citizens, and certainly in this way we do not do well for the interests of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u33	(17) DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we in the Commission have opposed the opinion on the constitutionality of this decree-law, because we believe that we can consider it - once again - a sort of omnibus decree, given that each article intervenes in a different area. This time we have a remarkable list of issues to be addressed: from the agricultural sector, with a series of rules on which, among other things, Parliament has been called upon to intervene several times (I am thinking of buffalo mozzarella), to issues concerning the effectiveness of public environmental protection action, with urgent interventions in school buildings. In itself, each of these measures can be considered important, such as the intervention relating to the protection of animal species, the control of alien species and the operation of the National Park of the Cinque Terre. There are also urgent measures to ensure the qualification and transparency of environmental verification bodies. I would also like to remind you of the issues relating to the reclamation and safety of radioactive waste recovery operations, as well as the urgent rules for the management of military waste and for the reclamation of state property areas intended for the exclusive use of the Armed Forces. There are also interventions on the traceability of waste in the Campania Region, the so-called SISTRI, on which we have intervened several times. The decree also intervenes on the infringement procedure with regard to the environmental impact assessment (IA) and on another infringement procedure with regard to the Directive establishing the infrastructure for spatial information in the European Community and the infringement procedure relating to marine environment policies. The decree also intervenes on the tax credit for investments in capital goods, changes to the ACE (Aid for economic growth) framework and simplification measures in favour of companies. Then there is a very heavy intervention on the reduction of electric bills, which contains inside retroactive norms and therefore clearly anti-institutional. In short, Mr President, I could go on with this exterminated list, which shows that this decree does not have the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution at all, given that there is no need and urgency. Perhaps for some of the articles that I mentioned there could have been such assumptions, but within this decree, Mr President, we even have articles identical to those contained in the law of European delegation, transmitted to us by the House and at the moment under discussion in the 14th Commission. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it difficult to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u34	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower the level of the buzz to allow Senator De Petris not to be disturbed during her speech. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u35	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Therefore, the requirements of necessity and urgency may be applied to some of these issues but certainly not to the whole of the arguments addressed in the decree. Not to mention the need, as has often been said, for the decree to be homogeneous in fact, and not by fake, or contain related matters, linked by a common thread of homogeneity. On the contrary, we are in the presence of absolute unevenness. The decree in question could, in fact, be split into four or five decrees, intervening with rules that actually had the requirement of homogeneity. Moreover, we are talking about infringement procedures which, as you teach me, Mr President, should all be dealt with within European law, at this time under discussion in the Senate and which even takes into account some of them in the text of the decree-law. Not only that, it was transmitted to us by the House, where it was unanimously approved, the bill governing the environmental control system and the regional agencies for the environment. Yet these themes have also been included in this decree. We have heard promises of all kinds, even from this Government, that it is not the first to make them and then to deny them with the facts, including that of no longer issuing omnibus decrees and thus proceeding in total discontinuity with the past. On the other hand, we find ourselves once again faced, now in the Senate, then in the House, with decrees which have absolutely no presupposition of necessity and urgency, as well as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, nor characteristics of homogeneity. The government complains about the slowness of Parliament and proposes preferential lanes in constitutional reform, yet almost all parliamentary activity is devoted to the examination of bills of conversion of decrees, a reality that we can no longer continue to tolerate. The decree-law we are debating is really a manual to show how decrees should not be drawn up, moreover, to testify that all the appeals of the President the Republic and the interventions of the Constitutional Court have once again been ignored. Moreover, even if this is not the place, I would like to mention the measure that reduces the bills for small and medium-sized enterprises and the one that, at the same time, reduces the incentives for renewables, intervening retroactively on contracts already in force, so as to appear absolutely unconstitutional. As far as we are concerned (after having declared it in the Commission, we are now doing so in this House), we believe that this decree does not have the constitutional requirements, so we shall vote against the resolution of the 1st Commission. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u38	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, in advance, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the full text of my speech so that it is published in the Annex to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm authorizing you right now. Anyway, you have ten minutes at your disposal. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, what discontinuity do you see? On the urgent decree this Government follows in the footsteps of the Led Government; another deaf ear to repeat the same things. The Competitiveness Decree is littered with rules without the necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution. We are not dealing with an extraordinary occurrence that justifies legislative intervention by the Government, which, in compliance with the Constitution, should allow Parliament to do so. This decree-law presents provisions of a purely ordinamental nature, which will produce effects over a period of years, and which therefore cannot be considered an emergency intervention. The text also contains a broad and unbundled content, with 35 articles dealing with different regulatory fields and in different sectors. It is an uneven measure already in the title: Emergency provisions for the agricultural sector, environmental protection and energy efficiency of school and university construction, the revitalization and development of enterprises, the reduction of costs on electricity tariffs, as well as for the immediate definition of compliance arising from European legislation. These are issues which little have in common and which required a separate discussion. The government can make soup with watermelon and pineapple, but it can't ask us to shut up about this violation. Also because we have already seen this game: decrees on decrees engulf the work of the Chambers and prevent Parliament from law-making well. The government's haste has produced monsters, such as the decree that gave private banks the increase in Bankitalia's shares and that the European Union has now criticized as state aid. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is the Government that, once the adverts have been exhausted, is late in issuing hundreds of implementing decrees that remain there, suspended for years. Curzio Rufo said: haste is a cause of delay. Think about it, President Renzi, also with reference to his electoral law, first hasty and now impaled, and to the revolutionary constitutional reforms that he would like to impose on us. Such a dishomogeneous decree cannot be called urgent. Moreover, the provisions contained do not appear to be attributable to the complex purposes declared. Article 10, paragraph 8, intervenes on the appointment and composition of the Board of Auditors of the Higher Institute for Environmental Research (ISPRA), providing that the appointment of a general manager of the Ministry of the Environment is only optional and not mandatory. But where is the urgency? Article 20, among other provisions, provides to raise the role and functions of the Italian accounting body, a foundation under private law that can issue national accounting standards, provide support to the work of Parliament and the Government and express opinions. It is not clear what direct effects such rules should have on the operation of businesses! In Article 5 (2), a Fund shall be established for incentives for the recruitment of young agricultural workers. Good! But the assumptions will have to be made from 1 July 2014, i.e. from today, while the budget for these incentives starts from 2015. In article 8, paragraph 1, you have the refinancing of the Fund for structural interventions of economic policy for 800,000 euros: but from 2018? It is recalled that, pursuant to Article 15 (3) of Law No 400 of 1988, decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application and this has been reiterated by the Constitutional Court. The reasons for urgency for Article 26, which deals with the incentive tariffs for electricity produced by photovoltaic plants, are not immediately evident. The provision substantially reduces the incentive rate already granted to producers of electricity from photovoltaic plants, an incentive aimed at promoting the use of renewable sources. The owners of photovoltaic plants, therefore, will be reduced the incentive tariff already recognized, with a unilaterally imposed modification for plants with power exceeding 200 kilowatts. The incentive rate would be reduced from 1 January 2015 and with increasing effect for 24 years after the start of the plant. Alternatively, holders may opt, by 30 November 2014, for a 10% reduction in the incentive from 1 January 2015. We therefore have a substantially retroactive regulatory action, which would affect existing long-term relationships. The principle of non-retroactivity of the law precludes the adoption of provisions which would affect the treatment of long-term relationships for beneficiaries when such provisions are transposed into an irrational regulation, frustrating, with regard to substantive situations based on previous laws, the confidence of citizens in legal security. Articles 3 and 41 of the Constitution would be violated in this case. Regulatory intervention also runs counter to the international obligations arising from the Treaty on the European Energy Charter, which was implemented in Italy by Law No 415 of 10 November 1997. Article 26 infringes the commitment to ensure stable conditions as well as favourable and transparent conditions for investment, which would therefore not enjoy full protection and security. The conflict with the obligations arising from the Treaty, in turn, will reverberate in a vice of constitutional illegitimacy for violation of Article 117. But the ridicule comes to mind in the explanatory report of the measure, which states: The action to be taken therefore corresponds to a unitary design which is suitable to affect individual tariff headings (...). It requires a wide range of legislative and administrative measures to be implemented. But then here we are talking about something that had to be regulated by ordinary law. Finally - and I conclude - we do not find the extraordinary and urgent need to amend the law of stability for 2014 in the matter of anatocism, that is the opportunity for banks to apply interest on interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The government is considerate in removing a measure that was detrimental to banks. But this is not an urgency for the country to deserve a decree, also because it is almost certain the next and yet another deletion of the rule in question, as Mr Boccia, President of the Chamber's Finance Commission, has already said. So, for all these reasons, we ask the Government to keep its commitments, if it has the possibility and the will, and we ask the majority of this House to assess the considerations I have reported to you and to give an answer not only legally correct but also ethically, rejecting the favourable opinion given by the majority in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u41	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must say that my task is certainly simplified by all the considerations on the substance that have been made by my previous colleagues and that unfortunately we in the Forza Italia Group must share very much. We are in the fifteenth decree of the Venetian era and - alas - the fundamental requirements and prerequisites of constitutionality, prescribed by Article 77, have once again been largely disregarded. And, ladies and gentlemen, it surprises me - the senators who took part in the work of the 1st Commission have reminded me in their speeches - that the strength of the numbers of the majority is so great that it is so great that the text of the Constitution, because - ladies and gentlemen, we all know it here - the text of the Constitution, Article 77, once again has been and will be, if this decree continues its process and course, widely violated. It will be in several ways, which have already been mentioned. I am sorry for those who are attending this work and must once again hear the same things; this goes absolutely demerit not so much of the parliamentary classrooms (which suffer the arrogance of the Government, which overrides the legislative function, which should be ours and only ours), but goes to absolute demerit especially of those who did not stop the path of this decree before. The Government takes responsibility for this and says that there is an extraordinary case of necessity and urgency. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know, only by reading the title of this decree, which talks about agriculture, the environment, business, competitiveness (this should be the common denominator), energy, structural interventions on schools and universities, we all know perfectly well together, ladies and gentlemen, that this decree cannot and will never be a uniform decree. He also knows who has kept it in his legislative office - I mean the Quirinale - for more than ten days, trying to amend this unevenness, trying from 13 to 24 June, through a work that I would more than define as a breakup of vivisection, to transform a text that unfortunately is and will always remain constitutionally inappropriate. In fact, using the right words, it will remain constitutionally illegitimate. We know, according to the system of titles, that obviously this Government thinks that the title is sufficient to convince Italian citizens that the substance is also contained in the title; in reality the substance, until proven otherwise (the latest guidelines on justice also prove it), must be put in writing and transformed into a law. The decree on public administration, which arrived at the Quirinale on 13 June, was the subject of a break-up - and this already gives us the measure of the irritality and constitutional inpropriety of its path - in two decrees: one that is currently being examined by the Chamber, which has been called a simplification decree, and one that we are examining now, which is called a competitiveness decree. Beyond the attractiveness of the titles, absolutely inappropriate with respect to the contents, the decree that we are examining is constitutionally inappropriate. Not to mention what should have accompanied the content of this decree. I am referring to the famous bill of delegation known as the "Simple Republic": once again attractive titles are used that try to hide the non-existence of the contents. We no longer have any trace of this measure because it has disappeared from the radars and has survived only in the memory of those who have heard of it in press conference through the slides. For what reason, as my colleagues have already mentioned, can we not and do not want to endorse this yet another constitutional barbarism? Because the title itself tells us that this decree has no logical-juridical connection and has no possibility of being classified as homogeneous, as the Constitution implicitly asks us, explicitly Article 15 of Law No. 400 of 1988, continuing the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, passing through the judgments of 2007, of 2008 and arriving to the judgment No. 22 of 2012 which, alas, colleagues, we all constantly evoke in this Chamber, unfortunately remaining unheard. Beyond that, I wonder how we can speak of extraordinary necessity and urgency when we deal with issues, as Mr De Petris and other colleagues have already mentioned, such as the DOP buffalo mozzarella, which accompanied my debut in Parliament in 2008. We now find in all the provisions a provision on buffalo mozzarella bell, on traceability of the production path, on buffalo farmers and on counterfeiting. I also remember the measures on Made in Italy: extraordinary necessity and urgency for such measures? Measures on the wine sector and the agricultural sector which are known to be effective must at least be programmed and programmed at a distance of at least one season. Measures dedicated to the energy sector absolutely broken and linked to texts in themselves not characterized by connection. All this makes us say, not only in the light of the Constitution and the subsequent constitutional jurisprudence, but simply in the light of common sense, that this legislative method cannot work. This method of standardization only makes a legal and regulatory apparatus already sufficiently burdensome for the final recipients, that is, all of us and the Italian citizens who are watching us and ask us to simplify. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I said that it is quite humorous that the twin brother of the decree we are examining, who lies at this moment in the Chamber's examination, is called "simplification decree." We are simply complicated, we are creating a legislative magma that will make the rules that we are trying to make effective more and more inoperative. In conclusion, we cannot escape first of all the function of the scrutiny of constitutionality. We do this as members of the 1st Commission and, at the moment, we are doing it as parliamentarians of the Republic and as senators. However, even those who have seen the passage of this rule, starting with those who have signed this decree, after having so many times, as this House recalls, stigmatized the malpractice of dishomogeneous decrees, not characterized by the requirement of necessity and urgency, retroactive or, indeed, delayed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Alas, all four of these characteristics, absolutely unconstitutional, are present in the measure under consideration, to the point of making us say, colleagues (and it is not a paradox), that if we wanted to explain to students of constitutional law of the first year what must not be done in a decree that must be constitutionally legitimate, in accordance with Article 77, this would be the ideal sample of everything that must not be done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] All that has been said and for many reasons still (which I will not dwell on because my previous colleagues have done so very effectively), I reiterate our absolute opposition to the continuation of the process of this measure and affirm, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia, our firm conviction of the absolute non-existence of constitutional requirements, Article 77 of the Constitution, with regard to Decree-Law No 91 in question. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 91. Senators who intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission, and thus acknowledge the existence of the conditions and requirements, will have to vote yes. Senators who do not intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission will have to vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00061 by Senator Vaccari and other senators, 1-00105 (text 2) by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, and 1-00288 by Senator Fucksia and other senators, on celiac disease. I would like to inform you that a rewording of motion 61 has been tabled. I call Senator Vaccari to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u44	Mr President, Mr De Filippo, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that the issue raised by this motion and the others, at the first signature of my colleagues Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Mr Fucksia, is not one of the country's urgent priorities. I would therefore like to thank the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups for their sensitivity to a disease involving a small percentage of citizens in our country. I also thank the signatories of the motion (in particular Senator De Biasi, President of the 12th Permanent Commission), as well as my colleagues Tronti and Zavoli. In our country this disease has been recognized as a late social illness, only by law no. 123 of 2005. Celiac disease, permanent intolerance to gluten, is an autoimmune disease with genetic predisposition. It is not treatable, except with a diet deprived of the protein substance that is capable of causing health damage, even if present in small traces. Italian celiac, among other things, is particularly at risk for the prevalence of foods such as bread and pasta in the diet. In Italy, the incidence of celiac disease is estimated in one person per 100 persons. The celiacs would potentially therefore be 600,000, but some 150,000 have been diagnosed to date (exactly 148.662, according to the annual report to the Parliament of the Ministry concerning data 2012), and therefore with a clear underestimation of the pathology, with 12,862 new diagnoses in 2012, which confirm an annual increase of about 10 percent. This confirms the growing trend of the new diagnosis of celiac disease from year to year, recorded since the first edition of the report to Parliament in 2007; the prevalence of celiac disease in our country was 0.25 percent, still far from that estimated at around 1%. According to data provided by the Ministry of Health, the only association present in Italy is the Italian Celiac Association (AIC), which assists the celiacs and their families with the aim of removing the obstacles to daily life and of promoting the normal inclusion in social life of subjects suffering from celiac disease; founded by a group of parents in 1979 who, at the time, faced the first diagnosis of coeliac disease of children in a context of very little knowledge about disease and therapy, today AIC has about 55,000 associates and operates through 20 territorial organizations. It is thanks to one of them that even the undersigned in 2012 was able to face with support and complete information his new condition of celiac. According to the data reported on its official website, the Association deals, in line with the Italian legislation of the third sector, to promote the recognition and guarantee of gluten-free, dietary and non-dietary products, publishing every year the AIC prontuary of foods (over 18,000 published products) and spreading the use of the brand'spiga barrata', to facilitate the social life of celiacs, publishing the AIC guide of restaurants, pizzerias and accommodation facilities, which is updated by AIC, on gluten-free food; to disseminate information on celiac disease through its house organ; to promote, through the Celiac Foundation, the Italian scientific research on celiac disease; to collect 5 per thousand, with about 60,000 preferences of taxpayers in 2012; to promote research of the Observatory celiacia on social behaviors related to the disease and on the market of gluten-free. A widespread work, which did not go hand in hand with the provisions of the decree Veronesi of 2001 that, among other things, expanded the possibility of delivering products for celiacs even outside the pharmaceutical channel, asking the public health to activate specific conventions with the organized large distribution. To date, in fact, this opportunity has been exploited only by eleven regions, which have been able to overcome the computer and formal problems, in defense of the purchasing power of the families of the celiacs, for the diversification of the distribution channels, which remains still one of the primary objectives. In this regard, I would like to focus in particular on the situation of difficulties currently facing the Calabrian celiacs. I remember that article 4, paragraph 1, of Law no. 123 of 2005 states that 'in order to guarantee a balanced diet, the subjects suffering from celiac disease is granted the right to the free supply of diet therapistic products without gluten. The law, introduced for the first time with the decree of the Minister of Health of 1 July 1982 and progressively modified in the way of implementation, is defined by law of the State and it is up to the Regions, through the local health units companies (USL), the free delivery of the vouchers to those affected by celiac disease. Nevertheless, since April 2014, in some Provinces of the Calabria Region, the suspension by the pharmacies belonging to Federfarma Calabria of the supply of dietary products for celiacs charged by the National Health Service has been in place. This initiative has serious consequences for a vulnerable section of the population. The celiac people living in the Calabria Region, especially children, pregnant women and the elderly, are, in fact, exposed to the risk of non-adherence to the gluten-free diet, with worrying repercussions on their health. Moreover, considering the relative uniqueness of the distribution channel in Calabria, today represented by pharmacies and not yet by commercial establishments, this element makes even more evident the seriousness of the initiative undertaken by Federfarma Calabria, which in fact suspends access to the right of celiacs to gluten-free diet. Before moving on to the commitments that the motion asks of the Government, I would like to focus the attention of this House on another fundamental point concerning the relationship with Europe, which today sees the beginning of the Italian Presidency of the European Council. On 12 June 2013, Regulation No 609 of 2013 on foods for infants and young children, food for special medical purposes and substitutes for the entire daily diet for weight control repealing Directive 2009/39/EC, the framework rule governing foods for particular nutritional uses, and Regulation (EC) No 41 of 2009 specifically regulating foods for celiacs, providing for the transfer of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 41 of 2009 to Regulation (EU) 1169 of 2011. On 13 June last, the executive act of transfer was finally approved with the provision of two distinct categories of food for celiac disease: foods of current consumption, suitable for celiac disease, and foods specifically formulated for celiac disease, those foods expressly prepared in order to reduce the gluten content of one or more ingredients containing gluten or in order to replace ingredients containing gluten with other ingredients that are naturally free of gluten. Despite the long and hard battle of Italy (Government and patient association together), European Union Regulation No 609 of 2013 came out of the European institutional debate with a dangerous underestimating of the impact on final consumers, thus excluding gluten-free products intended for celiacs from the scope of the categories of products considered essential for vulnerable groups of the population. It is for these reasons that the motion asks the Government to ensure that the Italian legislation, always at the forefront for the rights and protections of celiacs, maintains, also following the approval of Regulation (EU) 609/2013 concerning foods for infants and children in early childhood, foods for special medical purposes and substitutes for the entire daily food ration for weight control, equal guarantee for the safety of the product specifically aimed at celiacs, for the production, notification of labels and control sampling plan and also maintains the national register of foods as the only source for free delivery, also with the implementation of the revision of the register already discussed at the technical tables of the Ministry of Health. We then ask the Government to intervene, taking measures of its own competence, on the tightness of the pharmacists in place in Calabria, guaranteeing the fundamental right to health of the celiac citizens of this Region; to formulate, within the new essential levels of assistance (LEA), a national line of direction that requires the regional administrations to respect the terms of the law of the State; to take charge of the long-standing problem of the circularity of the products in delivery, today available to the patient in the only Region of residence, experimenting also forms of dematerialization of the systems of the vouchers, able to save costs on the Health Service and to make easier the access to the consumer goods without gluten. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vaccari, time is running out. VACCARI (PD). Mr. President, I'm finishing. We ask the Government to intervene in order to promote early diagnosis (which reduces unnecessary health costs, social costs and exposure of celiac suspects); to encourage more decisive action in the regions to involve the operators of the catering and production of fresh meals and food because they adopt specific protocols, on the model of what is provided by the Emilia-Romagna Region and, in particular, regional guidelines for the official control of food businesses; to work in the appropriate locations so that in every place open to the public, and in particular in schools of every order and grade, where there are automatic food distributors, specific foods are also provided for all those suffering from celiac disease. These points are contained in text 2 of motion 61. Finally, I call on the Government to consider quickly the need to ensure these transpositions through the amendments to the 2005 legislation, which I included in draft No. 1026, at my first signature. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u45	I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion 105 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the welfare policy for the benefit of the coeliacs we are dealing with today can become a good paradigm on which to measure the levels of effectiveness and efficiency of health care in our country and to assess their consistency with the supranational provisions. However, it can also be a good paradigm to measure the critical points and deficits that occur at national level and at the level of transposition of Community legislation, that is, how much autonomy domestic legislation has in keeping with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon in defining and asserting. We also hope that at the territorial level there will be the homogeneity of welfare levels which in itself represents an unavoidable precondition for the principle of universality on which our national health system rests. Just in the last parliamentary term, both in the House and in this branch of Parliament, we supported - I like to say this - with a single voice (i.e. with unanimous votes, both Parliament and the Government) the need to mark the point with respect to the proposal that was formulated to us by Community act No 353 of 2011 with which we all agreed in sharing the principle that the mercantile drift cannot be supported if this affects the levels of effectiveness of the action to protect health. Why do I say that? I would say that simplification does not always rhyme efficiently. In that measure, the European Union - more particularly, both the Council and the European Parliament - proposed this draft regulation which destructured the system of regulation of products for celiacs, considering that even Regulation No 41 of 2011 (which was to enter into force on 1 January 2012) had to be repealed, creating significant prejudices even for domestic legislation, as the national register of persons with celiac disease could also be compromised. We said a no: a no sound and determined. In Europe things have gone differently, in the sense that Europe has partially accepted our no. In fact, our position was ignored and on 14 November 2012 the regulation was approved with the deletion of the specific indications concerning celiac patients that were then inserted in Regulation No 1169 of 2011, called FIC, that is, Food information of consumer. What is it? It is the slipping, within another regulation, of the same rules of discipline to protect the celiac subjects, but, in particular, of discipline of the products destined for their feeding, which, to date, would not cause any kind of prejudice on the efficiency of the assistance. We have legislation to protect. We have a very high level of protection; we have a high level of care that has international primacy on these patients. We have the need - this is the first point with which we turn to the Government, demanding its commitment - for there to be the spotlight on access so that the transposition of supranational norms of rank does not mortify, do not conflict with our regulatory system. It is a normative system that in our country indicates, in the past 30 years, a long and highly qualified path for which we have rendered a service to that extraordinary principle of universality and equity of our national health system, which is the flagship even of our democracy, which we must protect. Since 1970 we have had a legislative production that has gradually refined; we have conditioned supranational legislative production and, finally, with Law No 123 of 2005, we have sanctioned celiac disease as a social pathology and, with great rigour and punctuality, we have identified the criteria to allow the celiac subject access to provisions, as well as health services for diagnosis and related benefits. I believe that on this side, coinciding the discussion of these motions with the start of the Italian Presidency of the European Semester, we need to reconfirm the principles of proportionality enshrined in European legislation, renewed by the Treaty of Lisbon, and the principles of subsidiarity that accompany them, in a logic that must necessarily make health protection policy free from interference that can lead to cracks in the effectiveness and efficiency of the services offered in our country. I would like to focus on some other issues, recovering many points touched on in the motion tabled by my colleague Vaccari, who in a precise and precise way reconstructed the history of what is not even a disease, because celiacs do not like to be called sick or patients: celiacs are carriers of one of the most widespread and serious forms of intolerance that do not have pharmacological therapy. That is why the assistance to the celiac subject must consist of two moments, the first of which is the early diagnosis, because there is an absolutely unjustified gap between the subjects who, according to epidemiological estimates, are supposedly suffering from celiac disease, estimated in a audience of about 600,000 people, and the subjects who instead have already had the diagnosis of celiac disease, which are about 160,000: obviously, therefore, we must make significant steps forward for an early diagnosis, because this means better protecting the health of those subjects, but also means earning in terms of economic resources, destined, still today, to face costs and burdens both direct and induced. The second point concerns the fact that the celiac subject needs access to gluten-free foods. Attention, our country has the absolute world record, because we tolerate a percentage of gluten not exceeding twenty parts per million, so ours is consequently an important activity, also from the point of view of the production of these foods, that cannot know moments of fall. On the contrary, even through the recent legislative changes delegated to the Regions as regards controls, there must be an absolute and high level of guard. As regards food products relating to celiacs, there is a need for homogeneity throughout the national territory. We would not, as it seems that it is happening in some Region, that there is a reduction of the bonus donated to the celiac subject, because this would undoubtedly mean doing the exact opposite of what is necessary instead. There is therefore a need for homogeneity on national territory through guidelines for the regions, as well as for a greater commitment by the Government as regards the formulation, within the new levels of assistance, of a national approach that links regional administrations to the expenditure ceiling. This is a guarantee element that avoids determining inequalities between coeliacs living in different regions. I shall conclude my speech with one last point worthy of being represented in this House. In a season in which we talk about cross-border medicine, in which we have approved rules that allow an Italian citizen to go to care in one of the health facilities of a country belonging to the Union, it seems really absurd that a Apulian celiac, for example, who for reasons of university studies lives in Rome, does not have the opportunity to spend his voucher in food in the region that hosts him. The principle of circularity of vouchers must be entrusted to a solution, and this is the reason why I ask the Government to activate a consultation table involving the Italian celiac association; an association that has the merit of having kept high the attention of the same legislator, but which has the task of continuing its fruitful activity in support of the celiac subjects, to whom it has allocated the best resources, determining a level of protection adapted to the needs and expectations of a civil country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Vaccari and De Biasi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u47	I call Senator Fucksia to explain motion 288.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, because some of the arguments raised in the motion tabled by the Five Star Movement have already been extensively explained, so I will take advantage of this moment to clarify from a medical and clinical point of view what celiac disease is. Celiac disease, also known as celiac disease or celiac sprue disease, is an immunomediated enteropathy recognised by Article 1 of Law No 123 of 2005 (already cited) as a social disease. It manifests itself as a result of the ingestion of gluten, a protein soluble in alcohol present in some cereals such as wheat, rye and barley, in genetically predisposed subjects, so it does not have a Mendelian transmission, but predisposes to the familiarity of the same. This means that in all individuals who are in a homozygous and/or heterozygous condition for the DQ2/DQ8 alleles of the major complex of second class histocompatibility (HLA), the contact and intake of a series of antigens with specific epitopes on gliadin peptides - i.e. on gliadin, which is a prolamina, therefore a protein fraction of gluten - trigger the immune system, causing a response that leads to the destruction of intestinal villi. As a result, an malabsorption syndrome is determined, with all the consequences of the case, from anaemia to non-growth or reduction in the size of the evolving child, to a whole other series of concomitant autoimmune diseases (from Hashimoto thyroiditis to rheumatoid arthritis, Duhring herpetiform dermatitis and other pathologies). It has to be said that in the meantime, in recent years, the type of wheat has changed and industrial needs have led to the selection, even through GMOs, of grains with a higher percentage of gliadin and this because gluten is a protein that allows a more sophisticated processing of many products. We therefore find peptides such as A31-49, or more simply peptide A, highly toxic to celiac disease, both in vitro and in vivo. Other gliadin peptides, despite their analogy with peptide A, do not exercise the same toxicity and indeed some of them, not activating the response, could even favor tolerance, a kind of natural vaccination. The disease, one of the most widespread - probably the most widespread intolerance in the world - manifests itself with a series of extremely diverse and polymorphic clinical pictures. We know the classical form, the one that usually begins in the first 6-24 months, after weaning, and manifests itself with gastrointestinal symptoms, such as chronic diarrhea, vomiting, globose abdomen, lack of appetite, accompanied by the presence of certain markers in laboratory analyses, as well as all complications due to malabsorption, such as anaemia, coagulation alterations, edemas, vitamin deficiency and oligominerals. There is then a late form characterized by atypical gastrointestinal symptoms or extra-intestinal manifestations, isolated or associated with each other. Today, with the development of more and more sophisticated serological tests, we can easily diagnose specific antibodies for the disease (Ab antiendomisio and Ab antitransglutaminese) also showing the silent form, in which we detect the presence of pathognomonic intestinal lesions in the absence of signs and symptoms. Finally, we also find a form only potential, that is with a positive serology in the absence of intestinal lesions. So we understand well how the clinical spectrum is vast and how there is a diagnostic difficulty in reaching a clinical definition as many symptoms are nonspecific. This means that celiac disease is certainly widespread (an estimated prevalence of around one percent of the world's population is estimated); in Italy, some 135,800 confirmed celiac disease patients are now estimated, but the number of unwitting patients is about four times higher, with a growth trend of 20 percent per year. The only treatment currently available for affected subjects is the total and permanent exclusion from the diet of foods containing gluten; this first determines the regression of the pathology, which can also be rapid (normally a clinical healing takes place in about one or two months, up to six months, from the moment gluten is excluded), prevents autoimmune neoplastic complications, including Hodgkin's lymphoma and bowel, and thus avoids the related costs. Regression of symptoms is also an effect test (stop-resume test) that can direct a careful clinical eye also to save on subsequent tests or at least to support them with standard diagnostic tests (i.e. those on antigliadine antibodies (AGA), antireticholine (ARA) and antiendomisium (EMA)), or to investigate possibly for a diagnosis of certainty with the assessment of antibodies of antitransglutaminease (IgA and IgG) and with the biopsy examination. I also report that the AGA is only reliable until the age of three and then becomes unreliable. The important thing is therefore to make early diagnosis, follow an appropriate diet totally gluten-free, then eliminate the symptoms, rebuild the intestinal tissues and avoid the development of complications. The recovery, of course, also takes place according to the age and degree of damage, therefore the early diagnosis. There is a strong commitment that we must put into food education, because patients have difficulties mainly in organizing the diet based on information, which must be as detailed as possible, regarding the ingredients of each dish or food purchased at the restaurant, canteen or commercial circuits. It is particularly important that gluten can sometimes be hidden in foods: for example, it is present in certain medicines as an additive, preservative or aroma. In addition, a minimum contact of gluten-containing foods with those for celiacs can contaminate the latter: for example, the use of the same cutlery to stir the pasta in different pots is absolutely to be avoided. This makes us understand that it is important to ask the Government for a commitment so that all controls are strengthened through a certification of supply chain, traceability, in which is distinguished the food that is enriched with gluten (we could say a class 4 risk) compared to those that simply contain gluten, which present it in potential traces or in which it is completely absent and is therefore guaranteed for celiacs. Therefore, if everyone could prepare gluten-free and uncontaminated foods there would also be a price reduction through spontaneous competition from the market. It is therefore important to conduct an information campaign, as well as to ensure that uniform protocols are implemented in all regions so that there is no disparity in access to treatment, diagnosis and treatment. The other important problem is to extend the possibility of integration with vouchers or other more sophisticated systems even outside the Region, possibly not limiting the purchase of the products to the pharmacy alone, but also at the parapharmacies, the small and the large distribution, so that a celiac disease patient, who perhaps for work or study is far from his own Region, can buy the product without carrying it behind. European legislation requires the abolition of a regulation which was very useful for the verification of procedures. Since European legislation implies such abolition from 2016, we risk having a window period with a decrease in attention to the problem and prevention. All this must be avoided and, at the same time, the population must be made aware and the national health system organized so that there are no delays in the diagnosis up to six years that increase the costs. I therefore propose a maximum of my own, which I often repeat. Let us remember that a euro spent on prevention means saving ten in treatment: complications cost us much more than having a negative impact on social effects. I'm just adding... president. Senator, time's up. He even had an extra minute. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm done, Mr. President. The three motions were very similar, there were only a few more points in one rather than another. It would have been nice to find a single motion. [[Applause from Senator Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u49	I declare the debate open. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u50	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a subject that affects our sensitivity very closely: celiac disease is a widespread disease and Article 1 of Law No 123 of 2005 recognizes it as a social disease. Accredited estimates show that in Italy the celiac potentials are about 600,000, those diagnosed (even if so far different figures have emerged) about 160,000 and, every year, there are about 2,800 new cases that are diagnosed, with a clear underestimation, as it is not very easy to arrive at a diagnosis, such as Senator Fucksia dixit. But it is not a situation confined to our country. Celiac disease is considered to be a widespread disease in a homogeneous way worldwide, although it has a higher incidence in Europe. This is the most frequent food intolerance at global level. At the moment there is no therapy to combat it, except the dietary one which consists in the elimination of all foods that also contain small amounts of gluten. The Health Service defines the expenditure ceilings for the free delivery of gluten-free products according to age and gender. It is then the Regions that, through the ASLs, provide vouchers free of charge to people with celiac disease; however, this leads to excessive unevenness in distribution at national level, and this cannot be accepted. It is the task of the State, in fact, to promote the maximum diffusion of products for celiacs in every environment in order to ensure, as provided for in Article 2 of Law No 123 of 2005, the normal inclusion in the social life of subjects suffering from celiac disease. Article 3 of the Constitution also states that it is the task of the Republic to remove the economic and social obstacles which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the person. When we talk about proper inclusion in social life we cannot fail to think about ensuring the optimal conditions for the inclusion of children and children in school. For this reason, I am very happy that in the context of the conversion of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, introducing urgent measures in the fields of education, university and research, we were able to approve an amendment requiring that the Ministry of Education, after consulting the Ministry of Health, adopt specific guidelines to encourage the administration of food for all those suffering from celiac disease in schools of every order and grade. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Bignami, you have exhausted your three minutes. You can complete the sentence. BIGNAMI (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask that the remainder of the speech be published in the annex to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BIGNAMI (Mixed). However, I wanted to conclude by paying attention to the difference between being different and feeling different. Each individual is uniquely different from the other and therefore we are all uniquely different. But when the state doesn't provide what the individual needs, it makes him feel different. These are the barriers to be removed. These are the initiatives that must be pursued. We're not doing anything extraordinary. From my point of view it is simply a due act. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC and M5S Groups and the Senators De Biasi and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u51	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very often when this House is engaged in the debate on motions: we think, mistakenly, that our work is much less important than what we do when we examine a draft law. This type of approach often leads us to be unaware of the real importance of the issues that become the subject of a motion and how fundamental it is also to commit the Government to take concrete measures and measures to be able to resolve them. On the motions, however, it must change not only the attitude of the parliamentarians, but also that of the Government, since almost always the Executive, willing or unwilling, does not implement the commitments made. I hope that today these reflections of mine will be disavowed by successive complete and specific acts and not omnibus. The celiacs, based on the 2011 data, are in our country 135,800 and the trend continues to grow every year by 20 percent. The constant increase in these data is accompanied by the extreme variability of the symptoms and signs with which celiac disease manifests itself, making its diagnosis often difficult or, even, late. The last report to Parliament on celiac disease shows that, from the awareness of the symptoms by the patient to the actual diagnosis, they spend an average of six years and that for each diagnosed celiac there are ten others not aware that they are affected, which consequently do not follow dietary therapy. Beyond the fundamental and necessary medical and scientific exquisites, which I leave to colleagues more experienced than myself, allow me to reflect briefly on these aspects and to make a reflection. The growing indigestibility of gluten is now a fact. Numerous and very recent published scientific studies show that the children to whom gluten is removed have enormous improvements on various physical problems, but also on other pathologies, much more complex, such as autism, which has experienced a sharp growth in recent years, to the point that it is recommended the evaluation for nutritional deficiency and gastrointestinal malabsorption. For this reason, especially for children with neurodevelopment problems, it is time to anticipate and address a serious reflection on eating habits in general and to recognize the priority of nutrition today, together with the guarantee of a healthy environment, essential conditions to protect their health. Environmental alterations, although in many cases still difficult to prove, are the cause of many diseases. What is widely proven is the benefit you receive, not only from living in a healthy environment, but also from changing your diet, as already widely proven for cases of celiac disease and other diseases, such as multiple chemical sensitivity. These growing diseases make it essential to change eating habits and encourage more sustainable production processes, because environmental damage and food errors are producing very serious and obvious consequences for the health of all citizens. The increase in cases of celiac disease cannot but encourage us to finance important studies on a more biocompatible diet with the human species. This is a fundamental step that must be absolutely assimilated by the Executive, keeping in line with the commitment made last week with the approval of our motion, with particular reference to the conversion in the agricultural field from zootechnics to carpotechnics, also to ensure greater environmental sustainability and a lower water-territorial impact. Carpotechnic products such as Platan flour will have enormous economic advantages due to the lower production costs, allowing to obtain a high quality flour suitable for celiacs. It would suffice to reflect on the studies of the German botanist Alexander von Humboldt, who asserts that in the same area of land that produces 15 kilograms of wheat, 1,800 kilograms of plane trees can be produced, thus ensuring a strongly reduced and more productive use of soil. For the protection of celiac subjects, in addition to access to the diagnosis and purchase of controlled products adapted to their needs, we must also ensure a new approach with food and a new food education that starts from schools and is inspired by recent studies on alternative nutrition and sustainable fruit and vegetables. The government committed itself last week in this direction, approving our motion on the Global Covenant for Food and, let me say, I do not see why an Executive such as the one in office, which does not lack the opportunity to boast one day yes and the other also for its ability to change towards Italy, should not start to do so starting from the solicitations on these issues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u54	Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I have signed with conviction the two motions on celiac disease at the first signature of my colleague Vaccari and my friend D'Ambrosio Lettieri, sharing their basic spirit and the importance of the subject that concerns thousands of people throughout Italy and to which the Government must necessarily offer the necessary answers. Celiac disease, as has been said, is recognized in Italy as a social disease and is estimated to affect 600,000 people. The last annual report to the Parliament of the Ministry of Health shows us that some 150,000 people have been positively diagnosed with celiac disease, of which more than 100,000 are women and about 50,000 are men. In any case, we are talking about a phenomenon that affects about 2,800 new cases each year, an increase of 9 percent compared to the previous year. Today, celiac disease is classified as a rare disease, but in view of the number of people affected it is required to be included in the list of chronic diseases. The only tool available to date to combat celiac disease is the strict removal of gluten from diet, thanks to a wide range of substitutes for cereal-based foods not containing gluten. In fact, for celiac disease there is no pharmacological therapy, even if in some cases the administration of iron, being these people ferrocarente, can usefully improve the life of the patient but certainly does not influence the celiac disease. 18.15 p.m. (Floris followed). Over the years, thanks also to the drive of the association of the sector, it has made a long way for the recognition of the rights of the coeliacs (coeliac framework law, n.123 of 2005). The National Health Service provides special forms of protection for people suffering from celiac disease: free delivery of products within a ceiling of expenditure; administration of gluten-free meals at school and hospital and exemption from the ticket. Today, protecting celiac disease means providing assistance to improve the quality of life, but above all to prevent and rationalise health expenditure for a more efficient National Health Service. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to provide on the one hand an adequate knowledge of foods that are naturally gluten-free and of food that is agglutinated but not contaminants and, on the other hand, to illustrate the legislation on traceability and traceability of safe nutrition labels, which comply with food standards and the optimal distribution of products for celiacs by pharmacies and businesses. The motions underline some important aspects in European, national and regional provisions. Europe approved two years ago a regulation - on 609/2013, so-called FIC (Food information to consumers) - repealing the previous one. The government must therefore act in order to regulate clearly the regulations of the field. In this respect, I believe it is useful that the national register of foods, as the only source for free supply, is maintained, as widely discussed at the technical tables of the Ministry of Health. In the motions are also illustrated some regional rules of 2007 that introduce limits of monthly expenditure different from those established by the Ministerial Decree of 4 May 2006 for the dispensation of gluten-free products to be borne by the National Health Service. As the regions, by means of local health units, the bodies that provide the vouchers free of charge to those affected by celiac disease and arranging these differently the release of the vouchers themselves we are witnessing a serious territorial discrimination of the users. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Floris. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I see my time is up. In conclusion, we believe that the Government, in accepting the resolution referred to in the Community regulation, must regulate more dietary therapies for the national community, taking charge of that discrimination that is currently taking place by some regions, so on national territory there is an uneven system, spotted by leopard. In this regard, I would ask the Government to give its full attention to the motions that have been presented today. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Vaccari and De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u55	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u56	Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we are debating today concern a very widespread disease, but only recently has celiac disease started to be diagnosed correctly. It is, as we all know, a permanent gluten intolerance. It is now well known that one is not born sick with celiac disease, but with the predisposition to get sick. This predisposition is genetic and occurs when the subject comes into contact with gluten. From the data provided by the Italian Celiac Association, the incidence of this intolerance in the world is estimated in one subject for every 100 people; the diagnosis is carried out on average only in three percent of the patients. Every year 10,000 new diagnoses are made, with an annual increase ranging from 9 to 10 percent. On the delicate subject of celiac disease in recent months the bill No. 1026, at the first signature of my colleague Vaccari and of which I am co-signatory, has also been presented, aimed at introducing rules for the protection of subjects suffering from celiac disease. The debate in the scientific community on cost-benefits and the usefulness of screening for celiac disease in the general population is always topical. The criticism of this screening is linked to the high costs of public health. The Higher Institute of Health, in fact, estimates in Italy the cost of the diagnosis of celiac disease in almost 60 euros per person. Moreover, there are still no advantages for individuals with celiac disease identified with mass screening, and let's not forget that the indications of the norm have an impact, for their application, on the regional health expenditure, an area in which today we try hard to maintain the right to access the gluten-free diet, that is the only therapy known for the treatment of celiac disease. Several scientific studies confirm that, if celiac disease is not diagnosed and treated promptly, especially in women, those affected by the disease may undergo changes in reproductive life, with problems of delayed puberty, infertility, spontaneous abortion and early menopause. The early and timely diagnosis of coeliac disease in women is therefore very important. The motion that we are going to vote on today, therefore, is not only intended to protect health by avoiding the risk that, in the logic of spending review and to reduce national and regional health costs, we end up denying the most basic care to patients suffering from a disease that to date sees as the only therapy a gluten-free diet (even if, in Italy, studies are being carried out that could in the future allow access to a targeted pharmacological therapy). This motion aims, among other things, to underline the need for national guidelines to be drawn up immediately, within the framework of the definition of the new essential levels of assistance, to be applied everywhere, to establish the application of the principle of caloric needs (based on the recent levels of energy and nutrient intake recommended by the Italian Society of Human Nutrition), and to promote early diagnosis that reduces unnecessary health costs, social costs and exposure of celiac suspects to complications of delayed use of diet. The Ministry of Health, in its annual report to Parliament on celiac disease in 2012, as far as the Sicilian Region is concerned, points out that people with celiac disease are equal to 8.3 percent of the national figure. Of these, two thirds are women. I think it is important to stress that the Sicilian Region - my Region - has already taken measures in the matter of celiac disease, with which the network for celiac disease in Sicily has been established. Of course, all this entails costs for national and regional health but, as has been pointed out, these costs are clearly much higher where there is no early diagnosis that will allow a consequent reduction in the higher costs caused by complications due to delayed use of care. The motion that is under discussion today, therefore, is an act that, in addition to protecting the right to health enshrined in Article 32 of our Constitution, intends to recognize to patients suffering from celiac disease the right to a timely and correct diagnosis and the consequent recognition of the right to care for a disease that no longer falls within the case-law of rare diseases, but since 2008 it is now properly considered chronic disease. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u57	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by not formally agreeing with most of the issues that have been summarized by the motion-makers, I would like to avoid making a long speech, but giving an opinion immediately on the commitments contained in the motions. Many of these commitments, as has been reported, are perfectly comparable, so it is a question of giving an overall assessment. Although it would perhaps have been easier for us to do a different job, I am aware of the untouchable autonomy of the presenters and of the House and, therefore, I am going to give a summary opinion on each of the commitments contained in the motions. By sharing the general system of the same, it has been evaluated by the more than law n. 123 of 2005 the national government has made, together with the Regions, a sufficient itinerary of acts, regulations and technical tables that, with the drive of these three motions, we hope to be able to implement in the future, evaluating that very recent initiatives of the European Commission, starting from the act delegated to the regulation of the European Union of 13 June last on the information to consumers on food products, will certainly require further legislative initiatives programmatic, to which we undertake to be able to wait with commitment, being the phenomenon described also statistically very important in terms of numbers and people who are subject to this type of problem and pathology. I shall then proceed with the opinions on motion 61 (text 2). Looking at the various commitments, I am in favour of point 1). On point 2, the opinion is in favour if the authors accept a small proposal for rewording, which is to introduce the following incipit : after the words "a avoid": "in compliance with their competences." In fact, there are multiple competences, which can also produce undue incursions in competences of other levels. On point 3 the opinion is also in favour of this with a rewording, so that the commitment would read as follows: It proposes, in compliance with its own competences and within the framework of the new essential levels of assistance (LEA), an update of the current provisions on celiac disease. This rewording is necessary because at the table that is evaluating the update of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers are present the Government and the Regions; therefore, it would be too clear and peremptory a commitment to assume totally knowing that the position of the Government, and in particular of the Ministry of Health, at that table is decisive and therefore imagining that in the debate of the Regions - which I know is very positive - our proposals will be accepted. The opinion is also in favour of point 4, with the inclusion, in this case too, of the expression: "in compliance with the competences", continuing with the words "propose solutions that allow the circularity of the products available today." The opinion was also in favour of points 5 and 6). The opinion on point 7 is favourable, although - according to the Government - this commitment is redundant since the problem highlighted was overcome by the institution, in May 2014, of the table at the Ministry of Health with the preparation of the Framework Document for the diagnosis and monitoring of celiac disease and related associated pathologies. However, I repeat, the opinion is in favour. The opinion was also in favour of the commitment contained in point 8). As regards the commitment contained in point 9, which is linked to the commitment referred to in point 10, I propose to the presenters a rewording which should contain both points. The presenters make a specific reference to a definitely good practice, that is that of the Emilia-Romagna Region; the commitment that the Government can assume is not on that specific experience, even if it is a model, a paradigm, a benchmark, to which we can refer. Therefore, precisely because these are guidelines rather than guidelines, which must be completed in a circular evaluation of all the Regions, I would avoid the citation of a good practice - as is certainly that of Emilia-Romagna - and I would propose the following rewording: To encourage the rapid adoption of guidelines for gluten-free collective catering in order to standardise the rules for food business operators who produce, administer or sell gluten-free food, beverages and meals and so on. At this point, the opinion is also in favour of point 10), provided that it is reworded by adding the following in the beginning: I now come to motion 105 (text 2), first signed by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I am in favour of all the undertakings proposed by the presenters, which are less numerous and more concise. As regards motion 288 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators, I welcome the first and second commitments. With regard to the third commitment, although it agrees with its aims, it is stated that gluten-free food is already formally included in Community Regulation No 1169 of 2011 (which I believe has been mentioned by the presenters) and specifically defined by the Regulation by the European Commission. We are therefore quoting and defining this commitment, but it seems to us that this regulation already largely confirms it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Undersecretary. So point 3 of the commitments is overabundant, but is your opinion favourable? DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. The opinion is in favour, although I have referred to the regulation, which nevertheless seems to us to confirm exactly that commitment. I give a favourable opinion on commitment 4), while on commitment 5, I propose replacing the original wording with the following: • to raise awareness among the centres responsible for the diagnosis of celiac disease, promoting the application of the new diagnostic protocol, which is being defined at the technical table set up ad hoc in 2014 on the diagnosis of celiac disease at the Ministry of Health •. I express a favourable opinion on commitment 6), provided that the engraving is inserted at the beginning in respect of the institutional competences, taking into account that, as is well known, many canteens also of public administrations have served directly from external cooking centers through the concession of services in outsourcing, system used long and wide in our country by the regions, health companies, hospital companies and educational institutions. I give a favourable opinion on commitment 7, provided that there is agreement with the regions. Therefore, after the words "to take initiatives," the following should be inserted: "in agreement with the regions" I am also in favour of commitment 8). It seems to us that commitments 9) and 10) can be taken into account in the commitment5. The commitment 11) is the only one of this motion that seems to us not acceptable, because the Community regulation 2000-2013 and the last one, which will enter into force from 31 December 2014, prescribes very punctual elements and dictions in terms of information on labels, which must be of this type: "suitable for celiac disease" or "suitable for celiac disease." Using statements that go beyond those mentioned at the moment seems to us to be contrary to the current legislation; therefore, on this last commitment the Government's opinion is contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u59	Senator Vaccari, do you accept the proposals for reformulation, i.e. essentially a reference to regional competences and the rewording of commitments 9) and 10)?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u60	Madam President, it is precisely in this regard that I ask the Secretary for a re-reading, for the unification of points 9 and 10). I probably missed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u61	Basically, if I may, the rewording would consist in the following wording: "to encourage the rapid adoption of guidelines" and not "to the guidelines", tying then the sentence: "and, through this, of the State-Regions Conference" to the following: "to favour", expunging all the part that refers to the model of the Emilia-Romagna Region.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u62	That was clear to me. I would like to understand whether the explicit reference to involvement, while respecting the skills, catering operators and the production of fresh meals and food has remained in the new reformulation. DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. Yes, you can stay. VACCARI (PD). Then it's okay with me. I accept all the requests for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u63	There are no requests for reformulation on the second motion. Senator Fucksia, do you accept the rewordings proposed to the motion you have tabled?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u64	Madam President, I accept all the comments. However, I would like to point out that point 11 does not, however, conflict with the European directives and, on the contrary, simplifies and eliminates the misunderstanding between the terms'suitable for celiac disease' and'suitable for celiac disease' which, in fact, creates confusion and difficulty in understanding in the general population. Instead, to predict the four clear risk classes, with the indication of the percentage of gluten, similar to what is done, for example, with the presence of phenylalanine or other substances, would have been much more immediate and much simpler for the citizen. Europe does not always make life easier for us. When we implement a regulation, we can do it in the most appropriate way to our country, even by making an active contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u65	Does the Government confirm its opposition to paragraph 11 of motion 288? DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In view of the acceptance by the presenters of the changes proposed by the representative of the Government, motion 288 is intended to be reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u68	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Senator, Senator and Senator, the motions dealt with today speak of a disease, celiac disease, which affects, as we have heard, a considerable proportion of the population, despite the fact that the number of undiagnosed cases is still very high. The topics dealt with and the commitments addressed to the Government are all acceptable. Once again, I would like to stress the most significant ones. This is a particular focus on gluten-free food distribution and bureaucratic procedures with regard to specialist certifications, which are of primary importance. I remember how in all the interventions has been emphasized the attention to the distribution of gluten-free food precisely because it is to date the only weapon to allow people suffering from celiac disease to lead a completely normal life. The other point that has been highlighted is precisely the concern to make a proper link with the regulations coming from Europe, which are increasingly stringent. Of course, we find ourselves on these commitments. However, I would like to point out one aspect that I am particularly interested in and which concerns the raising of awareness among family doctors and free choice pediatricians about celiac disease, categories that are at the forefront of health protection. The impression is that there is still insufficient attention to this pathology, which often presents itself in a subtle way and to which diagnosis is sometimes reached only after years of investigations, specialist visits and therapeutic attempts. Care should therefore be taken to establish more robust training and information pathways for these categories of health care in order to speed up the diagnosis as much as possible. Another aspect that certainly deserves special attention is scientific research which, as we know, for these categories of so-called autoimmune diseases is the most important front in the fight against a pathological process that is still little known and without specific therapy. Only with serious support for research, as with other diseases, can we hope to achieve specific therapy. I also join in the thanks for the constant and valuable work of information and support to families and of comparison and stimulus for the institutions by the Italian celiac association in all its regional articulations. As a Group for Autonomies (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT)-PSI-MAIE we find ourselves in the two first-signed motions respectively of Senators Vaccari and D'Ambrosio Lettieri and confirm the vote in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Vaccari and D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u71	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I think another step forward has been taken today. The progress remains and I also thank the Government because it wanted to intervene actively, not only in corrective terms, but also by making a real contribution to the debate. I turn to the government because everything has been said and much has been said. The problem is always the usual: a distinct, clear and evident commitment for the Government. There are motions that, in this case, seem to represent the entire Senate Assembly. Therefore, when the government has wanted to accept all the proposals that have come from the parliamentary groups through the motions that represent the whole of this House, it means that it will then, on these issues, not simply be able to say yes today, but will have to try to be proactive in relation to what is proposed today. I therefore do not dwell on certain problems that my colleagues have wished to explain very carefully, in some cases even personally very much felt and undoubtedly with a greater sensitivity than it would have for a possible rhetorical case. As a result, saying certain things more would, perhaps, become absolutely useless. Therefore, in recalling the overall commitment of the parliamentarians and the Government, I declare our vote in favour of the motions presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u74	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, we have now understood that celiac disease is an autoimmune disease of the small intestine, with a genetic predisposition, which translates into a permanent intolerance to gluten. To date there is no cure that contrasts the effects of the disease and the only therapy currently recognized as valid is of a dietary type and involves the elimination from one's own diet of all foods that contain even small amounts of gluten. Getting to a certain diagnosis of the disease, however, is not an easy thing, both for the diversity of symptoms, and - especially - because frequently these may not appear at first, be completely absent or show up with unpredictable timings. In addition, it is important to point out that there is a large number of patients who have been found to benefit from a gluten-free diet despite the fact that the disease has not been diagnosed. According to data provided by the Italian Celiac Association in the last annual report to the Parliament presented in 2011, the diagnosed celiacs are 135,800 for the reference year: still too few compared to the number of celiacs supposedly present in Italy if we consider the estimates of this disease. The annual national increase in new diagnoses would be more than 10%, with a fairly homogeneous distribution throughout the national territory. Medical studies have shown that celiac disease affects about one in every 100 Europeans: about 4.9 million people in the Europe of 27. This incidence, among other things, varies greatly from nation to nation: from 2.4 percent in Finland to 0.3 percent in Germany. It is also estimated that only one in four celiac is diagnosed, with an average delay of the onset of the symptom to the diagnosis of 12 years. The costs of celiac disease are significant and are drastically reduced as a result of the diagnosis when patients switch to a gluten-free diet, the only therapy currently available. Keep in mind that undiagnosed celiac disease is associated with numerous long-term complications, including osteoporosis. In Italy, Law No 123 of 4 July 2005 recognizes celiac disease as a social disease and, in order to guarantee a correct diet, provides the National Health Service with the supply of gluten-free food. In implementation of this law, the Decree of the Ministry of Health of 4 May 2006 defines the maximum expenditure ceilings for the free supply of gluten-free dietary products, up to a limit of 140 euros for male adults and 99 for female adults. On the basis of the provisions of the current legislation, the Regions, through the ASLs, distribute a good expense to the people who have obtained the certification of the disease. The actual use of the voucher, however, encounters considerable complications for many of the people suffering from celiac disease. The management by the Regions is far from homogeneous: if in some regions this is expendable even within the large distribution, in others it must be spent in pharmacy, where the prices are often more than double those applied in supermarkets. In others it must be spent only inside the same pharmacy at which it was used for the first time in the reference month, and even there are differences of use also between the Provinces of the same Region. There is also to be considered as such a system severely penalises the mobility needs of people suffering from celiac disease who, if distant from the Region of residence for reasons of study or work, are forced to plan their food needs without any possibility of modification. Gluten-free substitutes have undergone significant market growth and have increased as a variety. This is due to increased demand from patients and other consumers. It is expected that this growth trend will continue to increase, even in the light of the growth of diagnosis. Let us bear in mind that the dietary industry invests around 5% of the volume of R &amp; D business, compared with 1% invested by conventional food industries. This is also because replacing wheat flour is difficult and also the finished product must be nutritionally balanced, safe and above all good. Therefore, appropriate labelling of gluten-free substitutes is essential for the proper functioning of the market for gluten-free products and for the protection of celiac patients. I have already set out in an inspection union act (Question 300104) my concerns about the reasons for the price increase made by gluten-free food manufacturers, as well as the reasons for the sale at a price almost doubled at pharmacies. In the face of an ever-increasing demand for these products, it would be at least desirable to have a general lowering of prices which would lead to the cost of settling on the average of gluten products, making them in fact accessible to all, and thus exempting the National Health Service from taking such an expense. The Government should therefore first take responsibility for the protection of celiacs and their rights by promoting early diagnosis and by undertaking to eliminate, on the one hand, all economic impediments that affect the incomes of these people and, on the other hand, by mitigating many of those measures and obligations that appear too restrictive if not even vexing. It is important that there is a concrete commitment to make the treatment of celiacs homogeneous throughout the national territory, both in terms of access to diagnosis and access to gluten-free food. I would ask the Government to pay attention also to the celiacs who carry out competitive sports, given the fact that their energy needs are higher than those who do not practice it; I would consider it right to equate in all regions the spending ceilings to the upper belt of supply of gluten-free products. Finally, I approve of the addition to point 11) of the motion submitted by Senator Vaccari of the Government's commitment to spend so that in every place open to the public and especially in schools of every order and grade, specific foods for celiacs are provided, even in vending machines of food. For these reasons, on behalf of my Group, I am voting in favour of the motions under discussion. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u77	AELLO (NCD). Madam President, without wishing to go into the notions of etiology and epidemiology that have been discussed a great deal, we believe, by the extensive displeasure and motions presented by the senators who have explained to you in this House, that the problems that have emerged concern, above all, the knowledge of the disease by the celiac. Knowing how to deal with your condition is an excellent starting point for a condition that needs to be managed consciously. It is precisely the awareness that avoids the onset of clinical complications and helps to manage the daily difficulties and limitations of social life. In this sense, we believe that information and education can be an adequate support not only for celiac, but for the whole family that is called to share their needs. The guarantee of safe food is not limited to household consumption, but must involve catering in schools, hospitals, jobs and public establishments. So much so that, in the context of collective catering, the task of the national health system must be to carry out sanitary and nutritional surveillance, two aspects integrated into the same service. There is, therefore, also the willingness to be able to introduce into the reorganization of the departments of prevention of health companies those operational units of health education and school medicine that would however be very important for the control and surveillance for the purpose of sanitary safety. It is also necessary that the production and distribution processes are clearly defined by the companies, while information on the composition and nutritional characteristics of foods should be made available in order to guide consumers towards informed, appropriate and safe choices for their own profile. We appreciate the effort that the Higher Institute of Health and the Ministry of Health carry out, with the programme to review precisely the guidance document for the diagnosis and monitoring of celiac disease and associated diseases. Therefore, in the light of all the information received, given the findings and the strong relationship between the health system and the regions - whose data, especially in 2012, have allowed to carry out a further reorganization of the celiac system in the context of a more comprehensive and homogeneous reasoning - and given the regulatory developments carried out at national and Community level, it must be said that the progress has been many, but still there will have to be in order to reveal diagnosis still hidden. This in fact can only stimulate the commitment, both of the national health system, and of all those who operate in catering, even in the collective one, to work more and more efficiently to achieve more interesting goals, with the awareness of the importance of not underestimating this disease and its symptoms. Raising people's awareness of the importance of undergoing diagnostic tests is the only way to achieve early diagnosis without complications and better use of common resources. That is why our vote on all motions will be in favour. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u80	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we have covered many aspects of celiac disease this afternoon in the presentation of motions, in the debate and now in the phase of explanations of vote. We have seen how the legislative problems, both at national and European level, are added to health and economic problems. I should like briefly to make a few points. The extent of the problem, i.e. epidemiological data, has been reported by all. The increase in the number of celiacs reported annually, about 10 percent, does not have a certain etiopathogenesis. Among the various possibilities the most accredited is the use of varieties of fruits selected over the decades with more gluten, which favors the bakery. Our intestine is not used to these quantities, indeed, better, it is not programmed to work so much gluten. This factor affects genetically predisposed subjects, causing intolerance. Those who think of changing varieties to increase productivity should reflect well and ensure health in the next 20 years. Asbesto docet, I'd like to say! I remember that we Italians have fruits with little gluten, such as the senator hats, the shyness and the russello, fantastic Sicilian fruits demanded all over the world, less than in Italy, whose use would reduce the number of coeliacs and help Italian agriculture over time. Favouring the use and knowledge of these products, for example in canteens, would be a safe investment. This is called primary prevention, taboo word for the politician because the result cannot be spent politically as it occurs there over the years, when the mandate is over. The difficulty of diagnosis led to the establishment of diagnostic criteria and in 2011 the European Society of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition issued new guidelines that replaced the previous ones of 1990. In the Official Journal of 7 February 2008 n. 32 was published the State-Regions Agreement, in implementation of Article 3 of Law n. 123 of 2005. This document refers to the 1990 guidelines and needs to be updated. I am therefore pleased to hear from the Government that there is a technical table prepared for this purpose. Given that the diagnostic criteria are precise and that the guidelines are clear and shared, at least internationally, it is considered that the national network of accredited principals and interregional reference centres for the prevention, surveillance, diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, pursuant to Law No 279 of 18 May 2001, are exempted from having to diagnose celiac disease. I remember that in some regions only such centres can certify the disease, forcing the population to unnecessary displacements in order to obtain exemptions of the costs for the related health services. This has already been done in some regions, such as Lombardy and I would say that a bit of simplification is not bad. For the above reasons it is clear that the only way to be healthy is not to introduce gluten and therefore to feed on foods that are free of gluten. I remember that in nature there are many gluten-free foods, without any need to rework them. The 2001 Ministerial Decree introduced the national register of foods, in which companies report their gluten-free products, which are currently sold in special circuits (pharmacies, parapharmacies, specialist shops). The National Health Service, with tables determined according to age and gender, provides a monthly fee, a kind of ticket different from Region to Region. This is an important fact for the health of the citizens, but it has created a market drugged by exaggerated prices (I would say that much pants pay): the cost of food I believe exceeds 150 million euros per year. After 13 years you can make interesting considerations, but since they are uncomfortable you try to hide them and in fact even in this debate I did not hear them. This is a thorny argument, because it is going to affect category interests. As usual, we look at detail and leave out the general interest. However, before talking about money, I want to talk about health: I take you to my professional field, where I do not lack the arguments. Italian scientific works published in 2010 show that, one year after the introduction of these expensive gluten-free diets, celiac adolescents have grown fat, increasing the body mass index that borders on obesity, with very high levels of statistical significance. This is simply because gluten-free foods have no palatability, that is, they know nothing about it, so the industry, where possible, fills them with sugars and fatty acids (fat acids often monounsaturated, just to gain more, rich in palm oil and not olive oil), so they are hypercaloric. The teenager must have a snack like everyone else; having a snack with a fruit is not practical, it would be different: that it is contagious? It's real junk food, let me tell you, but this makes GDP grow: we pay to make up for the damage of celiac disease and then we pay for obesity. I could continue with dozens of examples: freshly modified foods that quadruple in price and good food for celiac, but that do not enter the prontuary and therefore the celiac, having the so-called ticket to spend, does not buy them. I strongly ask, as a doctor and as a citizen, that the prontuary be given a hand, that the logic be reviewed; let us give the celiac the opportunity to do what he wants and not be obliged to buy food (damaging and expensive), and especially in the place where he wants. We must guarantee quality raw materials: flour and pasta. 15 years ago the prontuary had a sense: the food was little analyzed, the population was uninformed; today these aspects are overcome, but economic logic prevailed. Think of the bureaucratic savings in terms of ASL authorisations, monthly calculation of the tickets to be brought to sellers, who must deliver them, must have contributions, switch to payment. All this to know how much a celiac has spent, but it is obvious: spend everything available. Maybe they do product analysis by company? I didn't know that health care was interested in marketing; it would be better to intervene on the quality of the product, for example by banning palm oil, but this would reduce the business of the producers: never! As far as I am concerned, we believe that all the motions put forward are to be approved, even if they appear to be incomplete on certain points which I have put forward, such as the extension of the sale of products in a general way, the revision of the prontuary, in particular in the qualitative sense, and the flat-rate reimbursement without reporting. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u83	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this afternoon's debate is an example. If we take what has happened today to paradigm, through a fair, profitable, correct, proactive confrontation, extended to the crucial issues that are the subject of our commitment, it would probably benefit the country as well as today, from the initiatives that will be taken following the decisions taken by the House on these three motions, will benefit citizens and celiac patients. Having put in line, with different nuances and with a different approach but aimed at achieving the same objective, the points of proposal that the Government has declared that it wants to accept, and having argued in a precise and precise way the reasons underlying each of the commitments addressed to the Government - with particular reference to the need to overcome the critical points by keeping our country a high level of legislative protection for the benefit of a category of subjects, the celiac patients, to whom access to therapy is allowed only through the simplicity and safety of access to gluten-free food - is certainly a point for the benefit of a good page of politics. I therefore underline the central points of the motions: early diagnosis; effectiveness of assistance; information to the community; training of staff, not only health care, but also that of catering services of the many canteens distributed in the national territory; homogeneity of assistance, through the overcoming of forms of regionalistic drift on an accountant basis, and the risk of cutting that bonus that represents the most important gesture of solidarity and the attention of a solidarity and universal health care. And again: the need to overcome the difficulties of fragmentation and legislative declination in the various regions, with reference to the circularity of products for celiacs; the need to defend Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where it is expressly provided that the European Parliament, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Committee, should adopt measures relating to the approximation of legislation in a logic of harmonisation. This principle is concluded by establishing, in particular, that in the area of health and consumer protection, the European Commission must necessarily devote specific attention to high protection, taking into account in particular any new developments based on scientific evidence. And again: today I like to address to the government an appreciation - as I did yesterday and in the previous legislature - for the attention given to this issue with promptness. A thank you to the Ministry of Health and, in particular, to the Directorate-General for Food Hygiene and Safety and Nutrition, for having recently, among other things, restarted the technical table, with the aim of deepening the problems related to the diagnosis of celiac disease. This is in order to update and adapt the framework document for early diagnosis, signed in 2007 in the State-Regions agreement. Those above represent absolutely qualifying points that benefit the goal that we all want to deliver to our country: a health that even in times of crisis is in a position to decline, through good governance, the principles of universality, equity and solidarity. For these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group for the benefit of all three motions presented. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u86	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, the condition of the coeliacs, as my fellow Members have said very well in their motions and speeches, tells us something very important: allowing the coeliacs to live better means, in fact, improving everyone's life. I will return quickly to the various points raised in the debate. Early diagnosis is certainly important, of course, but it is not just celiac disease. It will in fact have to become a method for all those forms that we once called diseases in our own sense and that today we can no longer call that, because they are the living conditions of people, who do not heal, do not die, but can improve, and this concerns in particular the issue that we have dealt with today. I come to lifestyles. The coeliacs teach us to pay attention to what we eat; they allow us to stop for a moment to reflect on our diet, on the substances we ingest and on the possible, consequent well-being. From this point of view I point out the call in the motion of Senator Vaccari (which I thank so much for his work and for his tenacity in the field of celiac disease) about the presence in the places open to the public of automatic distributors of food for celiac disease. These distributors must be for everyone, so not only for celiacs, because there is no doubt that those terrible machines contain products that are not good for anyone, not only for celiacs! It would be good for Italy to reflect on this. As I have seen in some schools, in some hospitals and in several other public places, there are good practices already in place; I believe that extending them to other realities is really one of the most formative elements, much more than many and many training courses, which will also be important to guarantee operators. If we want celiac people to live well, then we must create conditions of context, move forward in research and make the relevant products accessible. In this regard, what happened in Calabria is really very serious, because you can't market people's skin. For a question of commercial competition, many people (children, elderly people and pregnant women) can not be thrown away, from the point of view of survival, in a region where it is also very difficult to move. It is absolutely not possible that if the large distribution sells products for celiacs then the pharmacies make the lock. This is not good, because the extension of the opportunity and the points of sale in this case is not a market element, but an element related to the care of the people. We must then move forward in research. Although there is no doubt, I am particularly interested to stress that celiac disease should be recognised in the LEA. I thank the Government for the attention it is devoting to this topic; the theme of the essential levels of assistance is now mature both for government competences and for the competences of the Regions. As the Minister told us last week at the public hearing now, the Health Pact contains the choice to review the essential levels of assistance, including, I believe, adequate funding. I believe that we will have to insist on this in the coming months, because in the LEA, which is time to update, which has not happened since 2001, comes back the celiac disease, as well as many other conditions that are cut off today. This too is modernity. Moreover, the opinion that the Health Commission has given on the reform of Title V goes in exactly this direction: general guidelines that remain within the State and coordinate, in terms of the implementation of services for people, at regional level. The task of the Regions in the field of celiac disease is therefore fundamental, but equally important is that the State take its responsibilities without hiding, recognizing these phenomena and the rights of these people, and do so by raising even a little'more - let me say - the voice in Europe, because the one written in Europe on celiac disease is not a good page. We say we change towards European policy and I completely agree, but the approach to health in Europe must also change towards, getting used to that important normality that is the diversity of people. For these reasons, as a Democratic Party, we will vote in favour of all motions and we will strive, for what will be in our faculties, for the life of the celiac people to be objectively simpler and therefore more human. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u87	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 61 (text 3). PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 61 (text 3), tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from Senator Pepe]] Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 61, 105 (text 2) and 288 presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 105 (text 2). PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 105 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 61, 105 (text 2) and 288 presidents. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u88	Madam President, on the motion by Senator Fucksia, I suggest a rewording of point 11, of which I read: 'to act, at national and European level, so that food labels also inform on the percentage of gluten present, according to a scheme divided into the following four classes: high, normal, laughable gluten concentration, nothing'. With this rewording, the Government's opinion would be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u89	Senator Fucksia, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the government? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 288 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u92	PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of motion 288 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on Document IV, No 6, which contains: Request for authorization for the execution of the decree of acquisition and use of telephone records of Senator Antonio Milo, deputy at the time of the facts, in the context of a criminal proceedings pending also against him (No 51253/2013 RG). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the acceptance of the request for authorization to execute the decree for the acquisition and use of telephone records issued against Senator Milo, deputy at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u95	Madam President, I refer to the written report, except for a few notes. The request concerns an accusation of association with the aim of committing an indefinite number of offences of false fraud and aggravated fraud, putting in place repeated and repeated actions aimed at misleading the competent Supplementary Health Service for the competences of parliamentarians. Permission is required to use telephone records to locate Senator Milo's presence in the premises of a physiotherapy center and to define the presence or absence. The investigation is at a point where the presence would lead to the clearance of Senator Milo, while the absence would lead to the referral to trial. Senator Milo's questions are essentially three. First, the application of Law No 140 of 2003 also to the use of the records for the purpose of the location of the senator; from this point of view, the Junta, which approved by majority, considered that Law No 140, not containing prohibitions, is applicable to the case in question. Secondly, Senator Milo, in a nutshell, raises the question of a supposed lack of motivation for the request of the prosecutor of the Republic, on which the assessment of the Junta was negative, in the sense that two judicial acts are attached to the request which clarify exactly the reason for the request: it is a motivation for relationem absolutely in accordance with the law. The third question posed by Senator Milo is about the temporal discrasia between the crimes and the timing of the records, in the sense that the records refer to the period from March 4, 2012 to December 31, 2013, while the invoices contested relate to a time period not fully coinciding with that of the records. But from this point of view an invoice in particular, n. 19 of 2012, attests to the purchase of a package that obviously has a period of use that goes beyond and therefore the temporal discrasia so concludes. This is in summary the question; I refer you to the written report for a more comprehensive presentation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u96	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u97	Madam President, I have written a memoir, especially because I am not a jurist. But in fact, already in Mr Pagliari's very succinct report, I understand the reason for this vote by the Junta, which leaves me very perplexed. Firstly, the reports by the judicial police do not show what the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, says, because I am not talking about myself, but about other subjects. Even - and then I come to the reading of my report - with regard to invoices, I have not bought, nor is it clear from the surveys that they have been purchased, packages of therapies simply because invoices have to be made downstream and not upstream. The timing of the records says a lot about what was the investigation on this matter, which does not affect me personally because it is an investigation started on a structure that has nothing to do with my person, except for the simple fact that I was going there to do the therapies I still do. Beyond that, I return to the merits of the matter. In order to make the Members of this House aware of what we are going to vote on, I would like to make a summary of this story. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Tribunal of Naples, pursuant to Article 4 of Law No 140 of 2003 requested authorisation for the acquisition of telephone records, including information relating to local positioning. I do not understand whether the person who goes to do the treatments must also and above all bring the phone with him. But this is not important because, when they get the phone records, they will surely verify that I was in that center. The phone records of eight mobile users were asked - I had to go do the therapy with a minivan to bring me everything, including tablets, iPads and mobile phones - referring to the period included in the last twenty-four months after the notification of this authorisation request. The investigative hypothesis on which this request is based is formulated in a provisional charge according to which the writer would participate of an association for criminals promoted and organized by the dominus and de facto manager of the physiotherapy center Fisiodomus, with the participation of the administrators and an employee of the said center. This association would aim at the commission of an indeterminate number of fraud and fraud offences. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities proposed to accept the request of the Public Prosecutor of Naples, arguing that the Constitutional Court does not grant the Chamber a power to review data already evaluated by the judicial authority, but only the power to find, through the analysis of the motivation of the act, the non implausibility of the same from the point of view of necessity. In the present case, the request of the judicial authority cites two notes from the judicial police, with which the same represented the investigative relevance related to the acquisition of the records related to the users in use to the undersigned. The proposal made by the Junta appears to be completely illogical and in sharp contrast with the legislation governing the matter and with the interpretation given by the Constitutional Court. In addition, Law No 140 of 2003 requires that when it is necessary to perform with respect to a member of the Parliament intercepting conversations or communications, or acquiring communications records, the competent authority must request permission from the Chamber to which the subject belongs, stating the fact for which the procedure is under way and providing the Chamber itself with the elements on which the provision is based; elements that do not exist. The law cited also provides that the judge for preliminary investigations must request the permission of the Parliament if he considers it necessary - not relevant - to use in respect of a Member of Parliament the interceptions or records acquired against another person. It is clear from the combined provisions of the above-mentioned rules that requests for authorization to acquire and use interceptions or telephone records must indicate the need to use the telephone records referred to by them, and that this need must result from specific facts which do not exist. In this regard, by judgment No 188 of 26 May 2010, the Constitutional Court confirmed this interpretation and ruled that the law cited significantly prescribes that both the fulfilment of the act to be authorised in advance and the authorization to use an act already carried out in respect of another person must be assisted by a criterion of necessity. The Constitutional Court has also stated that, while it is true that the assessment of the existence of this necessity is undoubtedly the responsibility of the requesting judicial authority, it is equally true that the House of Members is the power - and the duty - to assess this necessity for the purposes of the ongoing investigation. To this end, the judicial authority is required to determine in a specific way the connotations of the provision and to give adequate account of its reasons, with reasons not implausible, so as to place the competent Chamber in a position to fully appreciate its constitutional legality requirements. For these purposes, a particular consideration must be given to the nature of the act to be carried out and to its ability to compromise the values of freedom and independence of the parliamentary function, with the consequence that the judicial authority must first make its own choices consistent with the need for the minimum indispensable sacrifice of those constitutionally guaranteed values. Well, in the event of the acquisition of telephone conversation records relating to equipment used by a Member of Parliament, all the more so if accompanied by data relating to local positioning, this investigative activity is characterized by a considerable intrusive capacity, and the same must therefore also be subject to the guarantees required by Article 15 of the Constitution in relation to the limitations of freedom and secrecy of all forms of communication. It is well known, in fact, that the records allow to learn and identify not only all contacts with other users and their temporal location, but also the so-called tracking, that is to say the localizations and movements of the subjects holding the apparatus. Which, as expressly stated by the Constitutional Court itself, in the case of utilities in the availability of a parliamentarians can open us up of knowledge on its relations, especially institutional... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Milo, you should finish your speech. Milo (GAL). All right, Madam President, but my report is long, especially because I think it is superficial that of the Junta. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should, however, summarize your speech and then, if you will, attach it to today's report. Milo (GAL). I will synthesize it and then ask for it to be attached. I ask you, however, for a few more minutes of patience. The information attached to the request for authorisation states that the relevance of the records in question would derive from the interceptions of telephone communications entertained by myself with the manager of the physiotherapy center on the subject - I think this passage is important - but the content of the aforementioned communications is not reported in the same information in them practically there is none of this. In particular - it is to the acts not transmitted to this Chamber - in the conversations in question the undersigned, intercepted, complains on several occasions that, despite having benefited from the physiotherapy services and regularly paid the same, the center had not yet provided to issue the relative invoices (even if there are some invoices that I have paid, but that have not been issued). In an intercept - I say this to my colleague, Mr Pagliari, who is rapporteur - it is transcribed: Invoices, Ali - because this subject was not an Italian - do you want me to do them or do I have to report you to the Finance Guard? I do not understand why the Naples Public Prosecutor does not transmit these interceptions and does not transmit any interceptions of the undersigned. I will add all the material, but I would like to ask you not only about the technical fact of whether or not you should authorize the acquisition of my phone records, but also and above all because one of my colleagues told me that someone in the Justice Commission was talking about intellectual honesty. With respect to the intellectual honesty of those who relate and those who expose, I would then ask you to vote against this request for authorisation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Scavone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u99	Madam President, let me ask - but I would like to say, I demand - attention. Not because it is a question of Senator Milo, of which I boast to be a friend, but because the issue we are dealing with here today is about the most precious asset we have, namely our freedom. For this reason, you cannot afford the luxury of being inattentive! You are guardians, we are guardians of our freedom and we must be careful and not distracted guardians. First of all, it should be pointed out that the means of proof required - and I address you, Senator Pagliari - constitutes, through the instrument, in reality, occasional telephone traffic, what is defined as electronic tailing. In clearer and more direct terms, it is a question of achieving the same result that would have been achieved by having my colleague Milo followed continuously for two years. It is, therefore, quite clearly a serious intrusive measure of fundamental rights of freedom. That is why I said that we are talking here about rights of freedom, not about the case of the prosecutor of the Republic of Naples and Senator Milo. Undoubtedly, this highly invasive means of investigation is indisputably disproportionate and redundant in relation to the purpose to be pursued. Firstly, because the results that would be obtained from this investigation would be equivocal and not decisive in relation to the facts, as far as we are given (obviously, superficially) to know. We realize that we are asking for the examination of the movements of six - I say six - mobile phones, two of which are registered to Senator Milo but in the possession of the senator's children (there would therefore be an invasion also in the movements of the children and not only of Senator Milo, therefore of all the members of his family). To do what? To ascertain nothing. You see, colleagues, I believe that the best testimony to the truth of what I say is in your own personal experiences. Which of you, in fact, would leave your cell phone on, which is notoriously ringing continuously, while undergoing physiotherapy, activity that presupposes, at the same time, concentration and relaxation? You have there, at your side, the cell phone that rings while you receive the physiotherapy performance and repeatedly respond and use it: it's paradoxical. I believe that each of you will be able to leave your cell phone with your own collaborator to answer and report any questions you have received. If what I say finds a minimum of feedback in the truth - and I am sure that in your conscience you have already answered yes - you will necessarily have to agree on the substantial uselessness of the means of inquiry. Senator Pagliari, don't write, just listen to me for a moment. What is useless when freedom is squeezed is not simply superfluous but becomes unfair and gravely dangerous. Secondly, the finding is disproportionate to the crime for which it is committed and to the legal good which it is intended to protect. On the one hand, in fact, there is an alleged fraud, undoubtedly a serious crime, but against the heritage, and, on the other hand, the serious and prolonged sacrifice of the good of confidentiality and the protection of sensitive data of the personality. The balance of the legal values at stake, in the light of their importance and constitutional rank, constitutes the true polar star of all interpretations of criminal and procedural criminal rules. Allow me at this point a moment of technicalism: an authoritative response to the reconstruction that I have offered to you comes precisely from the Constitutional Court, which, by judgment No 238 of 1996, declared the constitutional illegitimacy of Article 224 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the part where it provided for the possibility for the judge, in the context of perital operations, to have also atypical measures affecting the personal freedom of the suspect or accused or of third parties for any kind of crime, regardless of its seriousness and offensiveness. The concrete case that led to the decision of the Council is known, I believe, to many of you. It is that of the so-called Madonna of Civitavecchia. In 1995, members of such a Gregori family claimed to have seen tears of blood sprout from the eyes of the statue of Our Lady placed in the boulevard. After a while, the house became a destination for crowds, curious and faithful. The prosecutor of Civitavecchia, proceeding for the offence of abuse of popular credulity (infractional crime involving arrest for up to three months or a fine) ordered a coercive withdrawal of blood from members of the entire Gregori family, who opposed ending, thanks to an order of the gip, before the Constitutional Court that decided precisely in the manner indicated that I have just reported. That is to say, as a result of a crime, or a violation, which assumed only the penalty of arrest for up to three months or, alternatively, a fine, that prosecutor had asked the gip to order all members of the family to undergo a blood test to verify if that blood was equal to that taken from the statue placed in the avenue. Well, the Constitutional Court said no. He said no and declared the partial constitutional illegitimacy of Article 224 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Undoubtedly, then, the legislative vacuum was filled with Law No 85 of 30 June 2009, which, although for the crime of fraud, while not excluding the adoption of instruments of investigation so invasive, has established a principle of balancing the legal good to be protected with the legal good of individual freedom. Gentlemen, here we are talking about invoices for a total of 6,000 euros. We, for 6,000 euros, allow a judicial office to spend thousands and hundreds of thousands of euros to make an assessment and to follow, in the last two years, Senator Milo. I shall conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no chance of being inattentive. I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: you cannot be caretakers of our most precious good, freedom, which, although under certain conditions, can be just to compress and sacrifice. It must not be for unnecessary reasons, such as those of the request of the Neapolitan prosecutor. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u100	Madam President, in two minutes I would like to invite President Stefano and Mr Pagliari to have a little more courage and propose the abolition of Article 68 of the Constitution, or to transform it in the sense that every Member of Parliament can be searched, arrested, intercepted in any form, etc., and that any correspondence can be seized from him. In fact, if the constituent Fathers wanted to put this article, dear colleagues, there would have been a reason. You fail what has been a philosophy of the constituent Fathers: blood and handcuffs are not in the DNA of reformists and decent people; it is in the DNA and neurons of those who only want to give satisfaction to the prosecutors or be on their side to try not to be investigated in case of particular situations that concern them. Mr Fornaro (PD). Shut up! Barani (GAL). It is for this - I believe - that today the philosophy of those who have been constituent Fathers is lacking. I think today is another dark day for those who made the Constitution, who - alas - are turning in the grave, thanks to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u101	The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u102	Madam President, I think it is good to go back to the prosecution at this point. The accusation is false and scam aggravated pursuant to article 416 (i.e. also with the association to criminals). The problem is to check whether the invoices that Senator Milo presented to the Senate for the reimbursement of these physiotherapeutic treatments are linked to actual performance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u103	In the Chamber of Deputies: then the senator was a congressman.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u104	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. In the House, I apologize. It is necessary to verify whether they have been linked to actual performance or not. The reason why permission is required to use the phone records - we are not talking, therefore, of interceptions, but of localization - is intended to ascertain in a certain way whether Senator Milo has gone or not in that center, with the evidence that this finding is not against Senator Milo, but can also be in his favor. The point is as follows: The relevance of the tab verification is in the same reason as this completion of the test. The element is this, there are no other elements, but there is a clarity of case which does not allow, if we want to reason in objective terms, to speak of intellectual dishonesty or anything else. These are the legal data, and with respect to them we must verify the relevance and lack of fumus persecutionis. This has certainly been done from the point of view of Article 68, which is a guarantee but not a privilege. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal of the European Parliamentary Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u108	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to make a note about important issues because they affect each of us, and, among other things, they reaffirm things that public opinion may not yet understand, namely that a Member of Parliament, like any citizen, can be subjected to a criminal investigation without any authorisation, and that very serious accusations can be made against him. But now we are not at the moment when we are debating whether a Member of Parliament can be inquisited or tried: we are simply intervening in the field of evidence. The charge is as follows. The senator would order treatments for a package of 4,000 or 6,000 euros. Then, compared to investigations evidently on a larger tour that did not involve the performance that the senator - as he claims - is still receiving in that center, the report states that the testimonies of the employees of the physiotherapy center did not provide certain investigative elements about the use of those packages of therapies that were then reimbursed by the Senate or the House. What do the magistrates say? To be sure, you need to examine 24 months of cell phone records to see if in those two years the cells have ever recorded contacts of the Senator's cell phones near or in the center. The first objection that comes to mind is the following. The rapporteur said that if there is this type of connection, then we have evidence in his favour; but if this type of connection is missing, it may be that the Senator's cell phone was switched off when he went to do therapy. So, you ask to examine 24 months of phone records, with hundreds or thousands of phone calls, but even if, from the examination of all the phone calls of all the phones, of all the locations, it turns out that in that center the visits were scarce, what would it prove? That the senator is a con man? I wonder from the logical point of view what it means to have such a request. If they said they only wanted to check that cell to see if the senator's presence in that area had been different over the years. Go and examine for 24 months all cell phones and all contacts, which will be thousands and thousands, to prove what? That eventually the subject was little in that particular place or was there sometimes? How do they prove that he didn't do the treatments for which there must have been diagnostics? There must have been a doctor who made a prescription; there will be something documenting, from the point of view of the investigation, whether or not the performance has actually been there. From here to ask for permission to investigate 24 months of phone records and seven mobile phones it seems to me that there is some disproportion and that there is also some intrusiveness that totally ignores the consistency of the accusation. [[Applause from Senator Esposito Giuseppe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u111	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is particularly hateful, because it concerns one of the privileges granted to our status: to have medical refunds that other citizens do not have. [[Senator Amoruso's comments.]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). What privileges? We pay them. GIARRUSSO (M5S). And of this privilege one of the members of this assembly is even accused of abusing it. How did you find out about this? It has not been said, but it should be said. The medical center that the colleague addressed was a paper mill; yes, a paper mill that issued bills for health services after the medical center had been closed: the medical center was therefore closed, but continued to issue invoices for ghost health services. Mr Milo also fell into this beautiful criminal association. At that point the judiciary did a very simple thing, perfectly legitimate and respectful of the prerogatives: it simply asked for the acquisition of the phone records of the senator - so we do not speak of footsteps, or of invasion of who knows which sphere - to know if Senator Milo's cell phones were at or in the medical center when he said he was there to take advantage of the health services. Nothing more, nothing less. It is therefore, in our view, a rightful act, which does not in any way undermine the prerogatives of Members of Parliament, respectful of the healings provided for in the Constitution, those healings which you in the Commission have reiterated today that you also want to have in the Senate that will come (and for this the citizens will thank you soon). [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]] For this reason we of the 5 Star Movement believe that the authorization must be given and with conviction, because one cannot abuse a privilege of this kind because it means "abuse" twice, without respect for the citizens who out there make the jumps mortal to have much less of these performances. But here one even gets to abuse them. We therefore allow the judiciary to take its course: Senator Milo goes to expose his good reasons in the courts, with lawyers, as the normal citizens of this country do. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u112	I think, however, that it is right to point out that the senators pay a contribution to their supplementary assistance payments. It is right that this should be known. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Protests from the M5S Group]] I think those who listen should know how health benefits work for Members of Parliament. SANTANGELO (M5S). Tell it on television! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I think it is right to give full information on the status of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u115	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senators, I say this immediately with concern and uneasiness. In the work of Giunta, in the Commission and in the Chamber, conditions of pre-judgment are being created. And I'll explain it better. Anyone who is part of that opposition group who has always been convincedly guaranteed, because it evaluates regardless of the political side, is judged independently of the assessment of the issues of merit, both in fact and in law. Examples could be multiplied. This, I say clearly, I don't like it. In fact, even with regard to the request for the use of telephone records involving Senator Antonio Milo, there are aspects that, if we want to be euphemistic, we could define singular. Senator Milo would have created an association to commit an indeterminate number of crimes, aimed at misleading the Supplementary Health Service for parliamentary competences. All this would have taken place - according to the date of the three invoices contested - over a period of time ranging from 23 December 2011 to 27 December 2012. As can be seen from the request received by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples - I quote, Senator Giarrusso - the testimonies of the employees of the physiotherapy center did not provide certain elements. And no other evidence would appear to have emerged. So, I ask myself and ask you, Senators: if there are no certain elements, what are we talking about? What are we talking about? To answer this question we inevitably have to go into the matter: we are in fact talking about a request for the acquisition of telephone records, necessary to the judicial authority to ascertain if actually Senator Milo went to the physiotherapy center mentioned to carry out the activities of care billed. Beyond the disproportionate and unreasonable request for further investigations, compared to those already carried out and related to the verification of three invoices (repeat: three invoices), there is a clear logical-juridical leap: if you want to use the telephone records exclusively to locate the SIM card used to Senator Milo, I wonder: what would prove the lack of presence of such telephone users in the center in question? There is an unacceptable reversal of the burden of proof. An equation is given: the SIM card was not located in that area, the same as Senator Milo did not go to that center. Just today, before coming to the Chamber, I left my cell phone with a collaborator so as not to be disturbed during the work of this House; so, following the same reasoning as the rapporteur or, better, the same equation, I am not here today. I'm not here today. Is that right, Senator Pagliari? [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] I didn't interrupt you, you understand? Try to be polite, because I didn't interrupt you! Are we going to say that for all citizens there is the freedom to do any physical therapy sessions by leaving their mobile phones at home or in the car, less for Members? If that were the case, it would be at risk to the very independence of Members, who, in order to be able to exercise their activities without conditioning, should enjoy a level of confidentiality at least - I repeat: at least - equal to what is normally recognized by every citizen. These are non-negotiable constitutional prerogatives. I do not understand, even framed in a period of galloping anti-politics, how these elementary principles can be considered obsolete or non-binding. The autonomy of parliamentarians, as it was built by the constituent Fathers, is the basis of our democracy. In the debate in Junta, some Members argued that in the case of Senator Milo we would not consider the fumus persecutionis that we are called upon to evaluate. I note, however, that the request for the acquisition of the records does not cover the time space of the already mentioned three invoices, but arrives until 31 December 2013, i.e. more than a year after the last certification submitted. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, to explain this contradiction, took over the version of the prosecutor's office, which is basically the following: if Senator Milo bought physical therapy packages, it is plausible that the treatment took place later. But let's ask ourselves: what if instead the treatment had taken place in an earlier period or, hypothetically, had taken place elsewhere, perhaps at home? This reasoning of the rapporteur, in the dark, as is said in law, proves too much. In light also of these aspects, it is evident that: there is no investigative relevance in the acquisition of the records, which would prove to the maximum that a senator does not carry with him the cell phone when he performs physiotherapy sessions; there is no adequate motivation for this request; there is no logic, given the temporal discrasia between the contested facts and the period to which the requested records refer. That is why I confirm, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, the vote against the acquisition and use of telephone records, calling on this House to reject what the Junta has decided, because to undermine the guarantees of Members, without any legal basis, means to weaken the very rules of democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u116	Colleagues, I warn you that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u119	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, in Junta I tried to argue on three points of reference. The first is the lack of prediction... [[Brusio.]] Ma'am, I'm sorry to bother you...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u120	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u121	FERRARA Mario (GAL). I understand that my request can also be connoted by a certain presumption and I understand that my colleagues in the Junta have perhaps heard me too much arguing about it, but I would like to see that not me but the Presidency take up the same on the basis of the necessary attention to a problem which is not only about Senator Milo and myself, a very modest speaker, but also about the previous character of Parliament that our deliberations may take for the purposes of constitutional doctrine and interpretation. In fact, compared to the lack of regulatory provision, that is to say that Article 68 of the Constitution does not speak of positioning through telematic systems, but only speaks of - I quote myself so that colleagues can follow better - authorization for interceptions, - I repeat: interceptions - in any form, of conversations or communications and seizure of correspondence, I stress that we have long debated this. I had asked for a preliminary ruling that my colleagues should decide on the return of the documents to the magistrate (previously observed in the practice relating to the authorization that we did not grant to Senator Sco), in the sense that either the magistrate can do so or, if he cannot do so, he cannot Ask us. If it can do so, it can do so anyway; but if it cannot do so it leads to unequal treatment: in fact, in the case of local positioning, that is to say localization through interceptions, for any non-parliamentary citizen, permission should be sought from the gip; in this case, instead, the parliamentarians could be located without the prior guarantee of the judge. So, both because of the lack of prediction and because of the unequal treatment, I had requested that the documents be returned. Senator Pagliari, in relation, cited a Court ruling which states that the guarantee cannot but concern the functional scope and therefore not whatever is outside the functional scope, which we know is not only provided for the Head of State but also for parliamentary activity, as established by the Court. So, in case everything is about the function, everything has to be authorized. But then only in the case, which I do not share as well as other components, in which localization can also concern the activity and therefore the function of parliamentarians, there is another problem: the excessivity, the disproportionate and the useless. The rapporteur himself says that it is necessary to carry out this investigation because nothing, I repeat, emerges for the testimony of the employees of the physiotherapy center and nothing emerges from further interceptions on them: that is, Senator Milo had nothing to do with this investigation! Senator Milo is involved because, following the investigation against another Parliamentary of the Chamber, the magistrate asks the Chamber Offices for a copy of all invoices of the physiotherapy center and it turns out that there is another parliamentary, just Senator Milo, recipient of the services. So Magistrate Woodcock, the famous magistrate who wants to put half of Italy in jail. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] Start the investigation against Senator Milo, too. This is the real and substantial truth! Two years ago Woodcock discovered that there is also a senator and wants to put him in, so start investigating, nothing finding! Then, at this point, through positioning, he wants to prove that Senator Milo never went to the club; that paper mill has nothing, because the physiotherapy center first had 50 employees, then, at the time of performance, he had 15 because he had lost the accreditation, but still kept quietly working, performed his performance and issued his invoices. Senator Milo, along with his family members, especially his son (which he does not tell), with objective medical prescriptions, did those benefits; but the magistrate wants proof that he is looking for that the services have not been performed! So through positioning, he tries to see that Senator Milo didn't go to the center. At this point they detect two other notations, that is the utility and the eccessivity. We want to know where the parliamentarians went for two years in a row, but then, if it is true the previous assumption, that is the functional one, at this point the eccessivity returns: does the magistrate want to verify where a parliamentarians in office have been for two years? What if he met representatives of other parties? Did he go to the head of state? If, Renziano, he went to Berlusconi or if, Berlusconiano, he went to Renzi? The futility is in excessiveness! To detect a fantastic 5,000 euro scam you want to build a precedent for which a magistrate, whatever it is, not just Woodcock, can know where any of us, any of you, a congressman or a government representative in the previous two years, wherever he has been! Persecution, not only against Senator Milo, but also against the whole of Parliament, is constantiated in excessiveness! And you are inattentive, you do not listen because it has become fashionable the fact that we want to introduce self-flagellation into the world of Italian politics, so, as was done in 1992 by renouncing parliamentary immunity, we now have to give up any prerogative, but it is not, as a colleague says, of which I do not even want to mention the last name, a privilege! Health care, in fact, is paid; it is an active mutual fund! So it's not about privilege, but ignorance reigns supreme. And other ignorance is to be added to that minimal ignorance which has been carefully amended by the Presidency's intervention, by introducing a limitation of a just prerogative that will help the Member in his function, namely that no one knows or can know, for a minimal, occasional or persecutory fact, where he is and wants to go, otherwise we will not only cause the concern to speak, but also to go where he wants to go. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u124	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to address my fellow Members who have tabled the request for a secret vote: I would ask you to think about this and to withdraw it, ladies and gentlemen. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). You take care of it and give me my freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, please. GIARRUSSO (M5S). In fact, at this moment we are talking about privileges: the first is this health care, of which citizens do not enjoy outside this Palace, and the second is this immunity that we had to cancel, because any citizen outside this Palace would already have been tried for such a thing. Now the third privilege: the secret vote, to hide from the citizens how they vote! [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Giovanardi. Senator Falanga's comments.]] Face this thing with your face open! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, the question of the order of business has put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u127	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, I wish to declare my abstention vote on my own behalf. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Manconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u130	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am one of those who signed the request for a secret vote. When Italian citizens go to vote, they vote in secret, so I absolutely do not feel ashamed of something that is right to use. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u131	Senator Carraro, the secret vote in these cases is provided by the Rules of Procedure, so we exercise powers provided by the Rules of the Senate. Pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Vote by secret ballot, president. I therefore refer to the secret ballot by electronic procedure of the proposal of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity to accept the application for authorization to execute the decree of acquisition and use of telephone records of Senator Milo, deputy at the time of the events... [[Bursio) -]] Colleagues, please! If I can read the subject of the resolution it would seem to me a rather significant passage of today's sitting -...transmitted by the prosecutor of the Republic to the court of Naples in the context of a criminal proceedings pending also against him. I remember that the senators in favour will vote yes by pressing the green button, the senators against will vote no by pressing the red button and those who want to abstain will speak accordingly, pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be orange for everyone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u134	AMATI (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that I voted wrong on the secret vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The vote is secret, Senator Beloved. AMATI (PD). I would point out that the secret vote was as I thought it would be; it is on support for the request for a secret vote that I would like to point out the mistake. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Beloved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u135	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 3791/13 GIP) pending before the Court of Foggia in respect of the Congresswoman Colomba Mongiello, senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation). The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly has unanimously proposed that the statements made by Mr Mongiello, senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Crimi, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the written report, making a very brief summary of the facts, so that it is clear at least what we are talking about. This document deals with the crime of defamation, for which former Senator Mongiello was accused. I would like to tell the facts, also following a written report and an audition by Senator Mongiello. It all began on September 12, 2012, when the then Senator Mongiello, within the framework of the iter of the bill nn. 143, 263, 754 and 2403, in adopting the rapporteur's amendment 6.202, stated: Manfredonia's agency, as many colleagues know, is a ghost agency that manages very modest traffics, wasting public money to pay the compensation of commissioners who for many years have been there without having carried out a single act to improve the operation of the harbour infrastructure of the Capitana. The same undersecretary Improta, answering to the House to two questions, a month ago has declared that the harbour authority of Manfredonia is an unproductive organism, that it sucks economic resources with approximately 50% of the resources destined to the allowances of the commissioners. This passage was taken from the session's shorthand report. The content of this statement was basically incorporated in a statement issued by former Senator Mongiello immediately after the intervention in the Assembly in the same Senate, and was subsequently taken up by the daily newspaper "Stato Quotidiano." Therefore, on the basis of the statements that appeared in the newspaper, a complaint was then filed for defamation through the press. It should also be pointed out that in the written memory given by former Senator Mongiello the same stated that she did not intend to ask for the guarentigies referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution and that it was her intention to submit serenely to the judgment of the judiciary. This statement - while appreciating its good will - is nevertheless irrelevant in legal-constitutional terms, given that the inindacability is, as it has observed authoritative doctrine, a functional guarantee that is foreordained precisely to protect the autonomous exercise of the parliamentary function. We hope - but this is a completely personal comment from the report - that on the whole issue of immunity and Article 68 we can move forward in the debate on reforms, so that they can be substantially amended and minimized. However, taking into account both the substantive facts, namely that the statements were made by Senator Mongiello in the context of a parliamentary debate, and the temporal date, since the whole thing took place at the same time as the statements were made, the Junta unanimously proposes to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Mr Mongiello, senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u137	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u140	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to point out to my colleagues that Senator Mongiello's statements would be gravely, I repeat, grossly defamatory. Senator Mongiello confirmed in fact the opportunity to suppress an entity that has not promoted any development process and has only drained public money, for the most part finished in the pockets of Commissioner and subcommissor, appointed on indications of the PdL. A phrase of this kind, spoken by a citizen, would lead him directly to a trial for defamation. The Junta, I rightly say, contrary to the previous case (because here now partiality, depending on the political belonging of those who submit to the judgment of the House, becomes truly unbearable), has found that this subject had already been dealt with in the Chamber by the then senator with different words and tones, certainly not defamators as in this sentence pronounced, and rightly said - and that is why I will vote in favour - that in relation to a Member of Parliament, a representative of the people who has the only power, unlike the magistrates, to speak, to defend the thought and also to say things that a normal citizen cannot say or is not heard to say because he fears being dragged into judgment, there is a parliamentary prerogative that, in this case, defends the former senator Mongiello who has enjoyed and it is right that he enjoys it. However, by announcing the vote in favour of the New Right Centre, in front of votes like the previous one, I can only reaffirm that it is becoming increasingly politically relevant and increasingly serious that this Senate moves on the basis of considerations that have nothing of the two plates of the balance, which should consider situations on the basis of those that are and not of political belonging.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u143	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement, in accordance with the rapporteur's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u146	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Senators, I repeat, in line with the unanimous approval of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, our vote in support of the unmistakable statements made by Mr Mongiello, senator at the time of the events at issue. Ours is a real conviction, supported in the specific case by objective evidence, because opinions have been expressed in the context of parliamentary activity. There was no doubt here by any representative of the Council that the constitutional guarantees which, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, are recognized to Members of Parliament in the performance of their duties should be respected. They are designed and codified guarentigies to protect the role of independence and autonomy of the representatives of the people. At the time, Senator Mongiello had requested to submit to the judicial review but, precisely as a result of parliamentary prerogatives, this choice is not allowed because it is not a right in the subjective availability of each of us. So far we're all in agreement, all right. Everyone has defended the constitutional guarantees provided for in Article 68, including Senator Giarrusso, those same constitutional guarantees that just now denied to Senator Milo: because they are always the same guarantees! So I wonder, and I wonder with a bitterness fund, if Mr Mongiello had been a centre-right Member, would he have had the same treatment? My question is not peregrine. In this case we have all complied with the rules and facts: in other cases or, better, in other decisions of the Council, instead, only the numerical element prevailed. Illustrious precedents have shown that all the rules of law have been torn according to a hostile political belonging, sacrificing justice on the altar of party interest. This is not, under any circumstances, a good service to the country, to democratic rules and, in a parliamentary system, to the respect that should always inspire the relations between majority and opposition. In conclusion, reaffirming our firm conviction that the constitutional prerogatives attributed to Members for the exercise of their mandate should prevail, I cannot fail to stress the risk of incoherent positions on the part of those political forces which, all too often, sacrifice such healings in order to pursue the wind of anti-politics, but of course - as in this case - in a single sense. Defending the autonomy of parliamentary functions does not mean claiming impunity or anachronistic privileges; it means first of all defending that constitutional dictation that cannot be done just every other day, depending on the political conveniences of the day or according to the popularity of the decisions to be taken. For this reason, by calling on all the parliamentary groups not to sacrifice their autonomy on the altar of the pleasure of the square, I confirm our intention to vote in favour of the non-unionability of the statements made by Mr Mongiello, in line with our guaranteeing vision of democracy and the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u149	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I will be telegraphic. Of course, as a socialist, reformist and guarantor, as I am, I am pleased to learn that even the communists and maximalists in this House, as a prodigal son, have returned to the path of European guarantee. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Welcome! God willing, you're back!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u150	I put to the vote the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide on the indisputability, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, of the statements made by Mr Mongiello, senator at the time of the events. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u152	Senator Airola, in order not to be overly disturbed, I would suggest that you wait a few seconds to allow colleagues to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u153	I call you, Senator Airola. AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, last Thursday's news is that Salwa Bugaighis, a well-known human rights activist in Libya, a lawyer and a central figure in the laborious process of Libyan democratisation, a woman on the side of all extremism, was brutally killed on the day of the political elections, presumably by extremist Islamist militiamen. Libya is just a stone's throw from the Italian coast, in a strategic position for the migratory flows that incessantly head and land in Italy and Europe. We wonder why, to date, Parliament and the Government have not yet decided and implemented policies, not to say forward-looking, but at least at the same time effective and aimed at promoting the democratic process, supporting the affirmation of a moderate political and social class, and not only through the use of military actions and bombings. Among other things, in these days when other tragedies are consumed at sea and on the Italian coast, with other victims of wars and desperate migrations, we find ourselves with a decree-law extending the Italian participation in international military missions, expired the day before yesterday. Should we wait for another extension, in a few months, and while continuing with the usual policy that announces, such as the one about our heroic boys on mission and the heroic peacemakers? This behaviour does not show the seriousness and responsibility with which the institutions should deal with foreign policy. Someone who has the humility to have just arrived in the Committee on Foreign Affairs tells you. In particular in the Mediterranean and Middle East, in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria (it is this morning the hearing with an NGO operating in Iraq, where the situation is dramatic), these activities are very important to build geopolitical stability and to guarantee peace and economic and democratic development, also and especially for our country and for Europe and not only for the countries torn apart by war. I call on the Government to act immediately, so that after the wars and bombings the parts of civil society that work for the good and democratization of these countries are not left alone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u156	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, there is some uncomfortable news that some people seem to want to forget quickly. Today, here, we remind you of the 5 Star Movement, such as the massacre of Viareggio station in 2009, which we commemorated in the city on Sunday, along with thousands of citizens and the family members of the 32 victims. This is the massacre for which the former CEO of the State Railways, Mauro Moretti, pronounced himself with the phrase: The incident was an unfortunate incident. I would remind this House and you, President, that to date 32 people have been sent back to trial for this tragedy, including Mauro Moretti, who has been in the register of suspects since 2010 and has been sent back to trial for the Viareggio accident. The family members of the victims have in recent years asked the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano to hear, but they have never had it. He never found, in five years, thirty minutes of his time. But our President, after only eleven months of tragedy, found the time to reward Moretti with the title of work knight. President Napolitano, on behalf of the families of the victims, immediately revoke this title! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Never was more honored, especially if we remember that during its management there were 47 deaths between drivers and maintenance workers, employees of the Railways and contractors, plus 58 civilians who died due to inefficiencies in the safety and prevention system. On February 19, 2014, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I filed a motion for the revocation of the title of knight to Moretti, but lies in the drawers. Engineer Moretti, who complained about the risk of cuts in managers' remuneration, was even promoted by Renzi to the much more prestigious and better paid position of CEO of Finmeccanica. It will now receive EUR 1 million and EUR 80,000 per year. Congratulations. But throughout this story you can see something even more horrible: on May 30, thanks to President Renzi, the guide of the State Railways passed to Michele Mario Elia, Moretti's right-hand man and also accused of the massacre of Viareggio. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is it so difficult to find capable, prepared, uninvestigated people to be entrusted with positions of responsibility in state-owned companies? To say that we are all outraged is to say nothing. Today we are officially asking that Moretti and Elia resign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On Sunday evening, every train passing through Viareggio station threw a whistle that looked like a scream of heartbreaking pain. At the end of the ceremony, a white balloon was thrown into the sky for every person killed in the massacre. May this gesture be the desire to find in the highest of our conscience dignified answers, both from justice and, above all, from politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u159	PADUA (PD). Madam President, on several occasions in this House I have had the opportunity to speak with great sadness and with great sorrow of what is happening on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea every day - and perhaps even get used to it. I am referring, in particular, to the tragedy that still strikes our hearts and our eyes this morning: sadness is that everything almost slips on us. I am sure that President Renzi, starting today's new European semester, will put more force into the problem we have dealt with in this House, because it cannot be an Italian and Sicilian problem: it is a problem for the whole world and, in particular, for Europe. I am sure that we will pay great attention to this, to put an end to the sad practice of the recovery of the dead in the Mediterranean Sea and to ensure that this return to be considered no longer a sea of death but a place of encounter of different cultures and religions. However, I think it is necessary to point out three issues (I do so quickly because it is late and time is short). The first is the moral question: do not be afraid of the other, of the different from us. Behind the economic data there are family dramas, with entire families dying and entrusting their lives to ruthless and cynical scafisti. Let us not forget the grave violation of the fundamental rights of the person, rights that are universal and transnational. Then there is the political question: to europize the issue of immigration through cooperation between the peoples of Europe. Italy, and Sicily in particular, plays a crucial role because of the geopolitical positioning in the heart of the Mediterranean. Structured aid programmes, including with the support of international authorities, are essential to build humanitarian corridors in Africa. I want to remember La Pira, who was born in Pozzallo, where today those unfortunate men and women who died of asphyxiation landed: let's remember how terrible these people died. Let us remember the prophecy of La Pira: an exceptional man, who thought that the Mediterranean Sea should really be a sea of peace. We do not think that peace is utopia or a dream. It is a necessary tool to ensure that all of this can stop. I'm not a utopian or a dreamer. We need to talk again about peace, we need to address the legal issue of amending the Dublin Regulation. Peace between peoples must be discussed again so that peace can be the basis of new European humanitarian policies. It is my strong appeal to our Prime Minister, our Government, who now has a huge responsibility and a very authoritative voice in Europe. Let us put peace at the base of this new Europe that we want to build, because otherwise we will never stop talking about these deaths, these women and these men fleeing from a tragedy. We are talking about peace: we are no longer talking about it in the parliamentary classrooms. I think this is an indispensable moment to think about and start over. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u162	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, today we have heard the Antitrust talk, among other things, about the indiscriminate increase, once again, in the RC car prizes. We Italians were obliged to pay these premiums and to secure our cars. That is a good thing, but there is a market that has no competition: companies do not compete with each other. The Antitrust already said so in 2000 and 2003 with some measures, which were also included in the respective bulletins. In this case, they even feared collusive practices between the various companies. Do we finally want to solve the problem of the car RC and these indiscriminate increases? Perhaps it is appropriate, especially now, to make sure that we all start a serious reform of the car RC again. I would add that, when these private companies fail to compete, then we will propose a state company that will really compete with these gentlemen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u165	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, from the deaths in the Mediterranean to the deaths in Italian prisons and the doors of Italian prisons. I am rapporteur for the indult and amnesty measure in the Justice Commission: I have prepared the basic text, I have prepared it. The work, however, cannot go on, because if the presidency of the Senate calendarizes, for the next week, now legal provisions coming from the government, now other measures, this bill remains there in the drawer, while in Italian prisons torture crimes are consumed. Prisoners live in inhumane conditions, we have been condemned by European bodies. I have not heard the authoritative President, today very authoritative in the European context, Matteo Renzi utter some verb that goes in the direction of ensuring that our country is not counted among the most uncivilized in the world. For this reason, I will repeat this appeal at every end of the sitting, even if there is no longer any senator in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Someone's here. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Yeah, someone's here. Senator Cuomo, you'll forgive me. You're here and you can see. I was saying there's no majority of senators. At every sitting I will repeat my call for the presidency of the Senate to schedule the measure and put the Commission in a position to act. For the time being, if these calls of mine are also ignored, I certainly do not want to make the Pannella of the situation, but I will go on in my fight to ensure human living conditions for prisoners in our prisons.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u166	Senator Falanga, as you know, the Conference of Leaders should decide. Its Parent Company will be able to interpret this fully-founded urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u169	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, among dozens of candidates for the ISTAT Presidency, the Government has chosen Giorgio Alleva. By law, he should be a university professor, independent and with international experience, but Giorgio Alleva at international level has had occasional collaborations. It boasts 97 publications, but perhaps a couple of international levels: the others, for ANVUR, are worth zero. His ResearchGate score is 5.1, while the average of ISTAT researchers is 5.92: three quarters of the researchers he will coordinate have, therefore, a better curriculum than his. Maybe that's why we didn't audition. We had less than 24 hours to examine the curriculum, lacking the programmatic lines required by USI ISTAT and that Giorgio Alleva, curiously, wanted to propose to us in private audition. But what transparency is this? Why was Maurizio Vichi, president of the Federation of the largest European statistical companies, audited with a ResearchGate indicator four times higher than in Alleva? Perhaps because he has a reputation for being unforgiving with power: exactly what the law provides. ISTAT is the entity that analyses the data on the state of Italy: it gives the measure of an economic trend and of the results of a Government. Berlusconi opposed the press because it gave unwelcome news about the crisis; Giulio Tremonti wandered ISTAT because he didn't like unemployment data. Then why do you choose Giorgio Alleva? Perhaps because Minister Madia involved the Department of Alleva in the analysis of the consultations of revolution@government.it. They must have been happy. The CGIL probably also liked it if five hours before the Council of Ministers published a praise of it. But the center-right was criticizing ISTAT and now voting for breda? Perhaps because on the same day, the result of a package of agreements, the Democratic Party voted as members of the anti-corruption two candidates of PdL area: among these stands Angela Nicotra, already candidate in the lists of the PdL to the Senate for politics 2013. So much for independence. In these days our complaints have been confirmed by an independent initiative of 39 professors of Italian and foreign universities. In alphabetical order: Luca Anderlini of Georgetown University, Tito Boeri of Bocconi University, Andrea Boitani of the Catholic University of Milan. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u170	Senator Endrizzi, you should conclude, also because your Group has made many speeches at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u171	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago and others. In an open letter to President Renzi, Minister Madia and Minister of Education, University and Research Giannini, they say in essence that certain minor publications true experts don't even mention them, and that this appointment for an Italian scientist is an invitation to leave Italy or not to return. Tomorrow we vote. Who can make a phone call to President Renzi, face it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would ask you to attach that letter to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u172	The Presidency authorizes you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u175	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor even though I did not sign up to speak earlier. I want to reassure Senator Falanga that we forgive him, as the M5S Group is the largest presence in this House at this time. My speech is for the voters of Abruzzo, and also for those of Piedmont who have the same fate. We had a tangle of lists between center-left, center-right and owl lists. Someone who probably wanted to vote for the center-right was wrong, putting the cross on the center-left. I wanted to reassure these voters, because the vote was still successful. Indeed, the people of Abruzzo, who spoke almost 30% for the 5 Star Movement in the European elections, and almost 22% in the regional elections, do not have a representation in the Bureau of the Regional Council. This is dictatorship. The supervisory body is currently to be appointed. May President D'Alfonso have the courage to give the Presidency of the Supervisory Body to the citizens of the 5 Star Movement. I would like to remind you, Mr Pallini, that the charges for the Democratic Party are bucks or merit, since our President has over fifty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u176	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-272.ana.u177	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.49 p.m.
