ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 8 August.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u7	I communicate, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences is convened for Tuesday 9 September, at 2 p.m., at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, to proceed to its constitution. I also inform you that on Tuesday 9 September, at 3 p.m., the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work will be convened to elect Vice Presidents and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u8	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1519 and 1533, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The rapporteur on draft law No. 1519, Senator Floris, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u9	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the bill of European delegation 2013, the second semester, was presented to the House on 22 November 2013, pursuant to Law No 234 of 2012, and allows the Government to present to the two branches of Parliament, by 31 July each year, a further draft delegation law related to the current year. The text was dismissed from the Chamber on 10 June last with several modifications; moving from the 7 articles and 15 directives of the original provision, we have reached 9 articles and 19 directives. During the examination in the 14th Commission, with a choice shared between the Groups and the Government, it was decided not to make changes to the text in order to reach a final approval quickly and, therefore, at the session of 30 July 2014, all the amendments tabled were rejected and the conferral of the mandate to the rapporteur was voted. Any further transposition needs by delegation would have been ensured by the forthcoming adoption of the bill of European delegation for 2014. In fact, with preliminary resolution taken on 31 July last, the Council of Ministers approved the bill of European delegation 2014, on which the opinion of the State-Regions Conference will be acquired. The new delegations will affect very different areas and we will examine the text once it reaches the Chambers. As regards the draft law of the European delegation 2013, the second half of today's examination, it should be said that the first two articles contain the usual procedural provisions of the delegation in order to implement the directives contained in Annexes A and B, as well as the general delegation to the adoption, in accordance with the contents of Law No 234 of 2012, of sanctioning provisions relating to European regulations or administratively implemented directives. The implementing legislative decrees of the Directives listed in Annex B and, where criminal penalties are provided for, those relating to the Directives of Annex A, shall be forwarded to Parliament for the purpose of obtaining the opinion of the competent parliamentary bodies. Article 3 lays down the principles of delegation for the implementation of Community Directive No 36 of 2013 (in Annex B), on access to the business of credit institutions and on prudential supervision of institutions and investment firms. The article defines the division of competences between the supervisory authorities concerned, Banca d'Italia and CONSOB, and sets out the criteria for the definition of sanctions. During the examination in the Chamber, moreover, a provision has been inserted that clarifies how all the legislative measures, even of the nature of secondary legislation and of implementation or execution, must be adopted within the scope of what specifically provided for in Directive No. 36 of 2013. It provides, as a deadline for transposition by Member States, for 31 December 2013. As Italy has not yet adopted implementing legislation, the European Commission has initiated infringement procedure No 142 of 2014 for non-transposition. It should also be noted that since 1 January 2014 the European Union Regulation No 575 of 2013, CRR (Capital requirements regulation), on the capital requirements of banks, has been directly applicable in individual States and that, on 19 December 2013, the Bank of Italy, as far as it is competent, has notified the issuing of supervisory provisions for banks with which the implementation of Community Directive No 36 of 2013 has been initiated in Italy. As of 1 January 2014, banks will have to comply with a higher quality level of capital equivalent to 7% of risk-weighted assets, of which 4.5 as a minimum requirement and 2.5 as a capital conservation reserve. In the definition of capital to be used, the flexibility margins provided for in the CRR are applied, in particular with regard to the deduction and prudential filters regime. Banks which fail to comply with the capital reserve requirement will not be able to distribute dividends, variable remunerations and other elements useful to form the regulatory assets beyond pre-established limits and will have to define the measures necessary to restore the required level of capital. Article 4 sets out the principles of delegation for the transposition of Directive 2013/14/EU (content in Annex B), to be implemented by 21 December 2014 on the reduction of over-reliance on credit rating agencies by investors, including occupational pension institutions (EPAPs), collective investment undertakings in transferable securities ( UCITS) and AIFMs, in the interest of savers and market integrity. In this regard, the House has amended the text with the aim of specifying to the delegated legislator that in regulating the process of risk assessment in relation to investment decisions by credit institutions, it will have to facilitate the use of alternative methods compared to those by rating agencies. Article 5 delegates the Government to the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of EU Regulation 345/2013 on European funds for venture capital and EU Regulation 346/2013 on European funds for social entrepreneurship, including the allocation of supervisory powers and powers, provided for in the same regulations, to the Bank of Italy and CONSOB. Article 6 confers on the Government a six-month delegation for the implementation of Framework Decision 2002/600/JHA on the simplification of the exchange of information and intelligence between the law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union. The article incorporates, in principle, Article 51 of the 2008 Community Law, which provided for similar delegation to the Government, never exercised and now expired. It should be recalled that this framework decision falls within the framework of the transitional provisions of the Lisbon Treaty. Under Article 10 of Protocol No 36 annexed, as a transitional measure and with regard to Union acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters adopted before the entry into force of the Treaty, so-called infringement procedures are not applicable. The powers of the Court of Justice of the Union (which do not include jurisdiction to review non-compliance or infringement of Union law by Member States) remain unchanged. In any event, that transitional measure shall cease to take effect five years after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. This means that, with effect from 1 December, for all measures taken before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty - and therefore also for the Framework Decision 2009/600/JHA - the European Commission will be able to act on the basis of infringement procedures, thus forcing Member States to transpose them, and the Court of Justice will be able to condemn Member States for non-compliance or infringement of Union law. Article 7 delegates the Government to the adoption, by 20 July 2019, of a single text of the provisions implementing the European legislation on the right of asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection. In this regard, the rapporteur points out that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Italy in respect of breach of obligations under EU law under the Procedures Directive, the Reception Directive, the Qualification Directive and Regulation 343/2003 (Dublin Regulation laying down the criteria for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application). The personal wish, I believe, shared by the 14th Commission and this House, is that during the Italian-led European Semester the Government can find the conditions to share a single text on immigration with the Member States, in view of the topicality and delicacy of the subject. Article 8, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, lays down the principles of delegation for the transposition of the European Directive 2013, No 11 (content in Annex B), on alternative resolution of consumer disputes (ADR-alternative dispute resolution) and designates, moreover, an authority competent for the matter. In particular, the Government is bound to make the Directive applicable also to procedures before dispute resolution bodies in which natural persons entrusted with the same resolution are assumed or paid exclusively by the professional, introducing certain criteria of impartiality and independence as collateral. Article 9, also introduced to the Chamber of Deputies, delegates the Government to transpose, within six months of the date of entry into force of the law, Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation decisions. The article takes up the content of Article 50 of the aforementioned Community law 2008 and sets out the many detailed principles and guiding criteria provided for therein. As regards the Annexes, Annex A contains European Directives Nos. 37 and 61 of 2013, while Annex B, which deals with cases in which the legislative decree of transposition must be preceded by the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, contains 17 directives that can be consulted in the text. Finally, in the course of the examination in the Commission was also accepted by the Government the agenda G/1519/1/14, at the first signature of Senator Rita Ghedini, with which some commitments are made with a view to the preparation of the single text referred to in Article 7 of the draft law and with a view to the exercise of the delegation for the implementation of the aforementioned directives no. 32 and 33 of 2013. I shall conclude by calling for the text to be adopted without amendment. As has already been said, any amendment needs can be successfully put forward by colleagues at the forthcoming presentation of the bill of European delegation for 2014. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteur on draft law No 1533, Senator Cardinali, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cardinali.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u10	Mr President, Undersecretary, Senators and Senators, the draft European law 2013-bis was presented by the Chamber of Deputies on 28 November 2013 on the basis of the interpretation by analogy of Article 29 (8) of Law No 234 of 2012, which allows the Government to present a second bill of European delegation for the second half of the current year. The bill was approved by the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies on 11 June last with 40 articles and an annex, compared to the 25 articles of the original text presented by the Government. During the examination in the 14th Commission, with a choice shared between the Groups and the Government itself, it was decided to make limited changes to the text in order to arrive quickly at a definitive approval. Many of these amendments are due, moreover, to the overlap of some articles of the bill with Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 (the so-called competitiveness), then converted into law, and with the measures in the matter of civil liability of the magistrates to the examination of the Commission Justice. While considering that the adoption by the Government, with Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, of norms that went to overlap with those of the draft European law 2013 -bis would have frustrated in part the typical ordinamental function of the European law annual, it was considered, however, that, for reasons of urgency, the advanced state of the infringement procedures justified the sanatoria of the same with the norms of the decree-law. Therefore, at the sitting of 6 August 2014, amendments to Articles 17, 20, 21, 22, 24 and 30 of the European Law were adopted. The first five have been included, sometimes with amendments, in the above-mentioned bill of conversion of the decree-competitiveness law, while the issue of civil liability will find space within wider measures in the field of justice, to the attention of the Commission Justice and the Government. In the Commission, limited amendments were also adopted to other articles which will then be taken into account. In any case, and only in memory, I recall that Article 17 of the draft law, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, contained provisions aimed at remedying the case of the EU Pilot 1484/10/ENVI, on the failure to transpose Directive 2003/35/EC, which provides for public participation in the preparation of certain plans or programmes relating to the environment. Article 20, not amended by the House, provided for changes to the hunting law. Article 21, as amended during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, contained a series of amendments to the existing national framework on the establishment of an infrastructure for environmental spatial information in the European Union. Article 22 amended on several points the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (VAS) guidelines. Article 24, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, referred to the third part of the rules on soil protection and combating desertification, the protection of water against pollution and the management of water resources. I recall that the above articles were included in Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014. With regard to Article 30, on the other hand, in the original draft law relating to the civil liability of magistrates, I recall that it had been introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies and that Article 2 of Law No 117 of 1988 was mentioned, which, as I have already said, will find ample scope in the appropriate forum and in the ongoing discussion at the Senate Justice Committee to which the Government also participates. Turning now to the wording of the draft law, as a result of the examination in the Commission, it is first of all noted that, following these deletions, the text has been reduced to 34 articles compared with 40 adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Article 1, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, sets out provisions to remedy the EU Pilot 5015/13/EACU case in the field of university grants for further education abroad. In particular, paragraph 2 repeals the nationality requirement for admission to the competition for the award of scholarships. The discriminatory element therefore lies in the requirement to obtain a degree from Italian universities. This could favour graduates of Italian citizenship by violating the European principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality and free movement of persons. Article 2, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, amends Legislative Decree No 96 of 2001, implementing Directive 98/5/EU to facilitate the permanent exercise of the profession of lawyer in a Member State other than that of acquiring the relevant professional qualification. Article 2 therefore provides that the name of the company between lawyers must contain the indication of companies between lawyers without preclude other specifications. Article 3, as amended by the Chamber, contains provisions to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 December 2012 on immigration and return and to resolve the EU Pilot 6534/14/HOME procedure. In particular, the Article amends the declaration of residence of the foreigner to be made within eight days of arrival, expulsion in case of stay beyond three months, the inclusion of the prohibition of re-entry into the Schengen Information System, the maximum period of stay in the identification centres, the interruption of the detention of the foreigner pending expulsion where there is no reasonable prospect that it will be carried out on the basis of the above-mentioned judgment, as well as the European Directive 2008/115/EC (Repatriation Directive) and Regulation (EC) No 562 of 2006 (the Schengen Borders Code). A number of amendments were tabled by the Group of the Left Ecology and Freedom in the course of its examination in the Commission. However, the amendments were withdrawn at the sitting on 6 August and turned into an agenda accepted by the Government. On the other hand, an amendment by Senators Manconi and Lo Giudice has been approved which provides that in any case the maximum period of detention of the foreigner within the center of identification and expulsion may not exceed ninety days, instead of the one hundred and eighty provided for by the legislation in force. The reduction of the maximum period of detention is imposed on the found deficiencies of the identification and expulsion centres present on the national territory, which cannot legitimize a presence higher than this limit. Article 4, as amended during the examination in the Chamber, contains provisions aimed at remedying infringement procedure No 2008/4541, according to which the provisions of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, on the one hand by imposing the use of CE-marked products, on the other by introducing restrictions in relation to the material used, would constitute a ban on the circulation of chimneys and plastic pipes, in particular as regards condensing boilers, despite those products meeting national requirements in force in another Member State, as provided for by Union law. Article 5 (not amended) contains provisions aimed at remedying the EU Pilot 3690 case, also allowing undertakings established in another Member State of the European Union to carry out cross-border private investigation services in Italy. Article 6, introduced by the Chamber, lays down the procedures necessary to render effective the prohibition of discrimination based on the nationality or place of residence of the recipient of the service. Article 7, as amended by the Chamber, contains provisions aimed at remedying the infringement procedure No 2027 of 2013 on the tax regime applicable to taxpayers who, although they are tax resident in another Member State of the European Union, produce or obtain the majority of their income in Italy (the so-called "non-residents Schumacher"). With the provisions of this article, therefore, they will be able to enjoy the reduced minimums regime, subject to the legal conditions, even persons resident in one of the Member States of the European Union or in a State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, which, however, ensures an adequate exchange of information, and whose incomes are produced in the territory of the Italian State for at least 75% of the total income produced. Article 8 (not amended) sets out provisions aimed at remedying infringement procedures Nos 2012/2156 and 2012/21157 on inheritance and donation tax rules (freedom of non-profit institutions, foundations and associations established abroad) and on public debt securities. Article 9 (not amended) lays down provisions to remedy the EU Pilot 5095 case in respect of the value tax of financial assets held abroad by natural persons resident in the territory of the State. In particular, the European Commission has found that the provisions providing for stamp duty on financial products (current accounts, securities, etc.) and financial assets held abroad are incompatible with European law. Article 10, as amended by the House, lays down provisions on the co-active collection of debts relating to revenue constituting own resources of the European Union. In particular, it is stipulated that revenue constituting own resources entered in the budget of the European Union shall not be subject to the rule, introduced by the Stability Act of 2013, which provides for the suspension for one hundred and twenty days of precautionary and enforcement actions relating to the co-active collection of debts of up to EUR 1,000 (this is not to prolong the collection time too much). Article 11 provides for the implementation of the European Union Regulation on OTC derivative financial instruments (over the counter, or traded on unregulated markets), central counterparties and trade repositories. Article 12, introduced by the House of Deputies, amends the territorial scope of value added tax and taxes linked to production and consumption in order to transpose the European Directive on the outermost regions of France, with particular reference to Mayotte. Article 13, as amended by the Chamber, contains provisions aimed at resolving the 2010 infringement procedure No 4227, at the stage of the reasoned opinion, for the incorrect transposition of Articles 5 and 9 of the European framework directive on safety at work. Article 14, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, provides for the correction of infringement procedure No 4185 of 2011, at the stage of the appeal to the Court of Justice, in which the European Commission has detected the exclusion of the management staff of the National Health Service from the working time rules, which come from Directive No 88 of 2003. During the examination in the Commission, an amendment was approved, at the first signature of Senator Silvestro, with which it extended to 12 months after the entry into force of the European law 2013 -bis, compared to the six months foreseen, the period of effectiveness of the provisions object of dispute in European. Indeed, the continuity in the provision of health services and the optimum functioning of the structures, which the said term aimed at ensuring in the more than complete adaptation to European legislation, appear to be objectives which may well require a time surplus for adaptation. Article 15 lays down provisions to resolve the infringement procedure concerning the protection of the health and safety of workers in the fishing vessel sector. Article 16, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, is intended to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 13 February 2014, which condemned Italy for failing to apply to managers the procedures for informing and consulting trade unions concerning collective redundancies and required by Article 2 of Directive 98/59/EC on the approximation of national laws on collective redundancies. Article 17, introduced by the Chamber, contains a provision aimed at healing the case EU Pilot No 4738 of 2013 on soft drinks. Article 17 repeals existing legislation and provides that soft drinks produced in Italy and sold under the name of juice orange, or bearing names referring to such citrus fruit, irrespective of the addition of colours, must have an orange juice content not less than 20% or the equivalent quantity of concentrated or dehydrated orange juice powder, without prejudice to those intended for marketing to other States of the European Union or to the other Contracting States the Agreement on the European Economic Area. During the examination in the Commission, an amendment was approved, at the first signature of Senator Floris (to be honest also submitted by other Senators), which postponed the effectiveness of the provision to the twelfth month following the completion of the procedure for notification of the provision to the European Commission and ensured the possibility of marketing until the exhaustion of stocks drinks without the mandatory minimum content produced before the date of the start of the effectiveness of the time limit (identified on the basis of the natural expiry of these products, which is precisely 12 months). Article 18, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, amends Law No 9 of 2013, on the labelling of olive oils, responding to the remarks made by the European Commission under EU Pilot No 4632. Article 19, not amended, contains provisions to delegate to the Government for the reordering of the current regulatory provisions concerning the protection of the external environment and the living environment from noise pollution produced by fixed and mobile sound sources. In particular, the provision lists a number of guiding principles and criteria for the adoption of legislative decrees in order to simplify and update national legislation to technological progress, including to make it more consistent with certain requirements of the European framework. Article 20, not amended by the Chamber of Deputies, is intended to amend the rules of design in the field of public contracts, in order to clarify that the prohibition on the reliance of public contracts on the assignees of the respective design assignment does not apply where designers can demonstrate that the experience gained in the performance of the task does not give an advantage over other competitors. In this case, too, there was discrimination over the freedom to practise the profession. Article 21, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, allows, as a general rule, competing undertakings in invitations to tender for the award of a public contract to avail themselves of several auxiliary undertakings in order to reach the classification required in the contract notice (the so-called multiple or multiple invitation to tender). The purpose of this article is therefore to protect the principle of competition between undertakings in public procurement and also to allow small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in procurement by adapting national legislation to the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 October 2013. This does not mean, however, that the individual companies that make up the association should not have the technical, organizational and instrumental characteristics required by the rules. These characteristics cannot be added but can be combined for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the competition. Article 22, as amended during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, supplements the powers of the Electricity and Gas Authority in order to implement the European Union Regulation 1227 of 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market. Article 23, not amended by the Chamber, deals with the regulation of the fuel distribution network in order to allow self-service distributors, located in urban areas, to operate without assistance in the 24-hour period. In fact, the current legislation allows it only for exercises located outside urban areas. Here again the risk is the violation of the principle of freedom of establishment provided for in the European text. Article 24, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, seeks to resolve the disputes raised by the European Commission in the context of the case EU Pilot 5216, with regard to three aspects of Legislative Decree No. 192, No. 192 of 9 November 2012, with which Italy has transposed Directive 2011/6/EC on the fight against late payment in commercial transactions. In particular, the first aspect concerns the wording of the provision setting the deadline for payment of public administration debts at 30 days, which can only be extended for the specific characteristics of the contract. The second aspect concerns the lack of provision for rules to combat even severely unfair practices, in addition to unfair clauses. Article 24 also complies with the European Commission's request to coordinate the legislation on late payment of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies. It is also recalled that a formal infringement procedure has now been initiated on this issue. Article 25, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, amends the rule of the Equal Opportunities Code on equal treatment for men and women in insurance and other financial services, in order to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of 1 March 2011 on appeals for invalidity, with effect from 21 December 2012, of the provision of the European Directive allowing derogations from the ban on the taking into account of sex as a factor of differentiation in the calculation of premiums and benefits for insurance and other financial services, where the sex factor was decisive in the assessment of risks, on the basis of relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data. Article 26, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, repeals the recent Law No 8 of 2013, concerning the use of the terms "cuoio", "leather" and "fur" and those deriving from them or synonyms thereof, reviving the previous Law of 1966 n. 1112. The repeal responds to the comments made by the European Commission in the EU Pilot 4971 procedure, where it was considered that the above-mentioned law has, as an effect, the effect of excluding from the Italian market products in "cuoio," "leather" and "fur" which do not comply with the national technical specifications, constituting an undue obstacle to the free movement of goods in the internal market. Article 27, introduced by the Chamber, aims to fully implement the European Directive on reporting and documentation in the event of mergers and divisions of undertakings, in order to resolve the EU Pilot 5062 procedure of 2013. Article 28, introduced during the examination of the Chamber of Deputies, as a result of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, supplements the legislative decrees implementing the Directive on professional qualifications, the Directive on freedom to provide services and the Directive on the right of establishment with the entry relating to Croatia with regard to the professions of doctor, architect and lawyer. The additions to the aforementioned legislative decrees are contained in the annex to the bill. Article 29, introduced by the House, contains provisions aimed at ensuring a more effective application of the European anti-fraud framework, laid down in the Regulation on investigations carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Office, extending the functions entrusted to the special public expenditure and repression of Community fraud of the Financial Guard, which is also assigned the role of carrying out analyses, inspections and controls on the use of resources from the budget of the State, the Regions, the local authorities and the European Union. Article 30, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, assigns to the Court of Auditors certain functions of verification and monitoring of budgetary data of public administrations, aimed at fully implementing, for the parties not directly applicable, the European Directive on budgetary frameworks and the European Regulation on budgetary policy documents of the Member States. Article 31, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, provides for measures for the development of research applied to fisheries, establishing that the sale and trade of fishery products for scientific purposes may be permitted, unless the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies provides for the prohibition. Article 32 of this Regulation lays down provisions necessary for the implementation, for the parties not directly applicable, of Regulation of the European Union No 650 of 2012 on the European Successory Certificate. During the examination in the Commission, an amendment was adopted, at the first signature of Senator Zeller, stating that the provisions of Title II of Royal Decree No 499 of 28 March 1929 concerning the issue of the certificate of inheritance and of a bond continue to apply in the territories in which the land book system is in place. Articles 33 and 34 shall include the financial invariance clause and the hedging rules. (10.10 a.m.) (Following the Cardinals, rapporteur on draft law No 1533). In the course of the examination in the Commission have also been approved an agenda, to first signature of the Senator Panizza, regarding the field of the road haulage, with which the Government has engaged to find solutions for a field in deep crisis in consequence of the presence of European enterprises that carry out operations of transport goods on the national territory in regime of cabotage and for the multiple forms of unfair competition used, and an agenda, to first signature of Senator Berger, that comes from the withdrawal of a previous amendment aimed to guarantee a more balanced transposition of Directive 93 of 2011 (related to the fight against the abuse and the sexual exploitation of the children), in the part in which it previews that the employer must inform itself on the existence of eventual condemnations for crimes committed from the worker against minors. Finally, certain provisions relating to Article 3 and Article 22 were formally coordinated. I shall conclude by calling for the text to be adopted. The examination in the Commission ended with the adoption of some limited amendments of a substantial nature and others of a formal nature, mainly to expunge from the text, as I said earlier, articles that were already the subject of other legislative measures. The text will have to go back to the Chamber of Deputies for the final passage, but I hope that we can finally close the process in both branches of Parliament as soon as possible in the next few days. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u13	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator Cardinali has just said that there is no variance in this type of legislation, while I understand that some amendments to Article 10 have been rejected in the House because the Budget Committee felt that they had financial implications. I therefore request, after checking the quorum, that the request be put to the vote to refer the entire legislative measure back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u14	Since there are no requests for intervention on the suspensive issue raised by Senator Candiani, we shall proceed to the vote, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.17 a.m. and resumed at 10.41 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspensive question put by Senator Candiani. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 1519-1533 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. PUGLIA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u17	Mr President, we have broken down almost all the procedures: there may be some missing, but we will take care of them in the next hours or in the next days. Much more attention would have been expected from both the Government and the media on the draft legislation under consideration: they have both neglected the measures we are debating today and we will approve the content of them next week. We know what we are talking about: we are talking about Community law and European law 2013- bis. The content, however, escapes, because obviously all the attention has been monopolized by constitutional reforms and in the meantime we have forgotten that our country is in a situation of serious non-compliance with European regulations. Allow me, before going into the general debate, to thank my colleagues in the Commission who, although they did not agree with or at least did not have an idea in conjunction with some of the amendments we have tabled, have allowed me to retable them, as we will do in the next few hours. The 14th Commission deserved more, in terms of the government's attention and its legislative function. We are talking about a Commission that has always, compared to all the others, managed to find balances that exceed the fences. Unfortunately, what characterized the examination of the draft law was an action which I did not hesitate to define as villainy by the Government, with the measures, then approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which remained for months in the examination of that branch of Parliament. I repeat: for months! Let's remember that the two bills on our examination bear the signature of the Led Government. It is certainly not a problem of the opposition if, then, for internal choices to the PD, the current President of the Council of Ministers, beating metaphorically the hand on the shoulder of Enrico Letta told him "Stai sereno" and a few months later created a crisis of government, losing months and months, keeping further waiting, stand-by, these measures in the Chamber of Deputies. The reality of the facts is very simple: today we are approving a law that concerns the second half of 2013, with a very serious delay for the country and for a government that declares itself pro-European to the marrow, being in this more realistic of the king. Unfortunately, these inconsistencies are hidden and masked by public opinion, but cannot be hidden or masked by European partners. We saw something that didn't work when the Renzi government formed. We no longer have a Minister for European Policy, but we have a Undersecretary. We no longer have a rank representation, as other European countries do, and this unfortunately brings many functions back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has not always paid much attention to European policies. Looking at the content of the measure, it appears that, at the end of July, Italy still had 101 slopes, for 101 infringements, against the European Union. The thing to be careful about is that of these 101 infringements, as many as 80 are cases of infringement of Community law and 21 are cases of non-compliance with directives. This means that, as often happens, the politics of governments - and Renzi in this sense is not lacking - is concerned to formally adapt our country to the directives, but does not worry about the repercussions that these directives have on the real world. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This produces, as an effect, the fact that there are continuous infringements, because what we so easily define as adapting to the European directives, proceeds to create the "mazzate" on the economic world and the enormous difficulties, which are added to the obvious loss of the competitiveness of our country. Here again I want to address a prayer to the Government: please avoid rinsing your mouths with a Europeanism that looks at infringements simply as something that can be settled with a stroke of file. We must think of the burdens that the real country must bear, the one that works in the factory and that then is obliged to adapt to regulations that have often and willingly been built without our participation, but for use and consumption of other European countries, Germany at the head. So, on this point, we would have expected a much more serious reflection. Let us also look at how the work has been done in the Commission. When the measures were presented, we waited weeks to find out what the Government's opinion and direction would be on some articles contained in the bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which were subsequently included in the Competitiveness Decree-Law. Mr President, I have a new anomaly in all of this. There is by law a provision - Community law - which has as its own purpose the purpose of reabsorbing and resolving the problems of conflict with European law and this function has been trampled on by the Government. In fact, rather than approving that measure with great care, the Government has superimposed that legislation of the decree-laws, absorbing some of the amendments referred to it, leaving the Commission even waiting to know, beyond the deadline set for the amendments submitted by the individual members of the Commission, what the address of the Government would have been. This means a very simple thing: to despise Parliament's work in the face of a decision-making which unfortunately does not correspond in fact to a step forward for the real country. To date 3,41 complaints are pending, of which Italy, with 438, is lead, followed by Spain and France. This not enviable primacy must make a lot of reflection, because - as I already mentioned - if the country formally adapts and then these same adjustments produce imbalances in the real country then you have to ask what is the European line that the government wants to follow: is that of bureaucracy? We don't like this. This is not the Europe to which we must aspire. The Europe to which we must aspire is a Europe free from the constraints of finance and bureaucracy, which, on the other hand, fills up with this type of regulation. Even today there are 326 pending cases, of which unfortunately, even in this case, Italy is leading, with 135 cases, followed by Spain, Greece, etc. A not enviable record for a country of which Prime Minister Renzi boasts to bring determination and desire for recovery to Europe. I would also be a little more cautious - let me say the Undersecretary Gozi - in going to make statements such as those that appear on the website of the Department for European Policies, where with great European enthusiasm he said that it is the Government's intention to launch a real special package for the semester that includes not only the rapid approval of European- bis laws, but also a strong commitment in 2014 to the new laws of European delegation that would be adopted from the beginning of the semester. This was said several months ago: to this day we are still here to discuss it, and we are in September. Alas, Undersecretary, this is written on the website of the Department of European Policy at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, so perhaps it would be a little more cautious and a little more small, but concrete, steps towards the real world. And again, allow me undersecretary Gozi, we avoid certain caricature descriptions that only aggravate the credibility of the country, going to issue further statements (always reported from the website of the Department) on how important the Renzi effect is. The Undersecretary recently stated: A direct testimony: Tuesday at the meeting of the Council of General Affairs of the Union, which always precedes the European summits, many supported me on industrial policy not because he knew several of them, but because he had the clear feeling that being the undersecretary of a head of government as present as Renzi had favorably conditioned them. Dear Undersecretary, I would like you to be esteemed for your qualities and abilities, not because you are Renzi's loyal man: this referential system puts you on the same footing as the baby with the ice cream that is behind Merkel and Hollande, and it is not the image that we want to be exported, especially during the European semester. On this point, however, allow me to make a comment. Please, when you set up sites like that of the Department, make sure that things aren't put on quite ridiculous and grotesque. I refer, for example, to the competition "A cartoon for Europe," published on the website of the Department for European Policies, Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with ridiculous scenes, which further ridicule the country, and gruesome scenes, such as those of entrepreneurs who are on the verge of the abyss and who fall into it. These images are published on the Ministry's website. [[Senator Candiani shows some sheets of cartoons]] Dear President, allow me to say that it is no wonder that international press bodies do this kind of representation of Italy. (Senator Candiani shows a copy of the weekly "The economist"). If, in fact, to show how much our country cares about Europe, this is what you propaganda, and that is the most important thing is a competition for cartoons to be rewarded in September, with derogatory images of Italian politics, you are bad promoters of the country system. On the subject, many initiatives are contained in the draft delegation law: I will examine only a few of them, because next week we will have time to deal with other issues during the examination of the amendments. It is a question of immigration and, in this case too, allow me, with a certain simplicity and, of course, superficiality. Adapting our country to regulations without taking into account its actual weight and relapse, today, with what is happening, is something at least reckless. All the more so since the adjustments provide for charges to be borne by the country. I would also like to see how you can combine this type of choice with the real world; that of entrepreneurs who lose their jobs, that of young people who are forced to go abroad because they no longer find hospitality in this country, that of a community that breaks down. They are all inconsistencies that are hidden with a beautiful brush stroke of white. We are adapting ourselves to the European Union and, indeed, we are settling our laws with those of the European Union, reducing the number of infringements, and so we are better at it. The real world consists of concrete facts that are made with numbers and sacrifices: those that make the real country, alas, appear very far from the views of the Government. I would therefore like to make one final point, Mr President. Five articles were deleted, four with government proposals and one with an amendment tabled by a Senator of the Democratic Party. The government did not want to get its hands dirty in order to remove the civil responsibility of the magistrates: it took a senator and forced him to submit a suppressive amendment; I do not want to imagine with what pressure. In the past months much has been said about those who defended this Senate so as not to lose the "cadarega". A little more attention should be paid to those who voted for that constitutional reform with the promise to have the "cadarega" back. But this is another episode, we'll talk about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bell Senators]] , Pepe and Mussini). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u18	Mr President, sharing some of the things that Mr Candiani has said, I shall take up some of the issues concerning the method of European law and the law of European delegation. Meanwhile, I stress the fact that this is European law 2013- bis, that is, we are talking about a bill presented during the previous Letta Government, whose iter began in the Chamber on 17 December 2013 and ended on 26 March 2014 with the Renzi Government already widely installed; moreover, similar times were followed also by the bill of European delegation. Of course, it is not entirely the fault of the House of Deputies to have held back such an important measure for so long, which comes into question in September 2014, when we will therefore hopefully have the opportunity to discuss European law with a different time and method for this year. It is not entirely the fault of the House because this branch of Parliament has been busy frantically converting that varied governmental emerging legislative production to which we are now accustomed and discussing an electoral bill that should heal anti-institutional legislation and does so by proposing equally anti-institutional issues. I would also like to refer to another aspect. In the 14th Commission we found ourselves incardinated with this European bill on 2 July 2014, when we were flooded in that grotesque marathon that was the approval of the ridiculous constitutional reform in which we have been so long and so depressingly engaged, without being able to devote all the attention and care that would instead be necessary for laws such as the one we are discussing sleepily and hastily now. As I said before, I would like to mention the total attendance of Members for the approval of the draft European law under consideration, which was certainly important, which amounted to 403, while the total number of Members present for the approval of the European delegation law was 447. In this respect, I would like to stress once again that the work of the Chamber of Deputies is in fact that of a branch of Parliament which has already self-governed, which has not been transposed by the Government: although there have reasonably been many voices raised with proposals for a revision of the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies, this has not been considered. We are therefore in a general discussion of a draft law which, as the rapporteurs have said, is being asked to approve at this time without any change, after the Commission has been asked to withdraw the amendments, and therefore in fact with an impossibility for what remains, whether willing or not, a parliamentary democracy to interact within this House and the Commissions in the correct manner and provided for in the Constitution. I agree with what Mr Candiani has said, and many other colleagues have also said, namely that the government's attitude towards the Commission has not been based on institutional correctness. In fact, articles have been deleted, which had been planned and which should have produced an in-depth discussion, because they were included in a decree-law, which was also approved with a vote of confidence, so even there was not allowed a wide-ranging and in-depth debate. Before moving on to one of the aspects that I am most interested in and which I would like to go into further, I would like to point out that the draft laws in question deal with certain issues, such as the movement of persons, goods and services, or the subject of procurement, equal opportunities or other experiences in the electricity market, which have been punctually mentioned by the rapporteurs. These are not issues of little importance and of little interest, on which we can work simply to close infringement proceedings; they are issues which would have the right - and we would have the duty to do so - to be discussed extensively. In fact, the problem that has been highlighted by those who have spoken before me is that our attitude towards Europe, despite declarations of great interest for Europe and for European mechanisms, in fact continues to be that of those who resolve infringement procedures at the last moment and obviously does not put themselves in a position to have a method. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] A true, in-depth method involving this House and also that of the House in a genuine participation in the work of the European Union, both at an ascending and descending stage, which is not simply a way of healing, of closing the stable when the oxen have now escaped. I do not want to mention the number (which has already been mentioned) of open infringements. The concern remains also for those who might open up. We have heard the talk about the possibility that the operations involving Alitalia could produce an infringement procedure and that, however, this should be resolved in some way, with some mechanism. Basically, what you would like from a legislative assembly is for it to provide not at the last moment, not in a raggy way, but in an organic way, just as this country deserves. For example, matters relating to agri-food, which is a major problem precisely in our relations with Europe, are in fact now being reduced to orange juice and olive oil. I believe that this is profoundly unfair and dangerous for our agri-food policy. This is not a method, it is not a way of proceeding. I would like to return for a moment to the deletion of Article 30 of the original text of the European draft law. Very delicately, our rapporteur has explained that this abolition will then be resolved within the Commission Justice: here it must be said clearly - and it is a complaint that I intend to make at this time - that in fact for many months in the Commission Justice lies the measure concerning the civil liability of the magistrates. With a mystification, in fact, an amendment was accepted in the House concerning the introduction of direct responsibility, when Europe does not ask us at all: Europe asks us to review and enforce the Vassalli law, which is so poorly applied, that is, it asks us to do timely work. Article 30 has been deleted because something has happened to the House that should not have happened. In this case too, I would like to remind you that, in our much disputed perfect bicameralism, once again we use the shuttle between the House and the Senate as a tool to solve problems of obvious lack of agreements within the discussion and voting done in one of the two chambers. It is therefore argued that the work will be postponed within the Justice Commission. Too bad, however, that the work within the Justice Commission is paralysed, not only with regard to the discussion of this bill, but also with regard to the discussion of other fundamental and important draft laws, which have to do with our way of dealing with the law, justice, the efficiency of the mechanisms of justice and the process, etc. All these measures remain in the Commission for justice pending this Godot, which was due to arrive in September and which has not yet arrived, of which we only have announcements, as we are now used to. Between announcements and ice creams, we are here that we continue to run empty, to work within the Commission justice, without ever being able to see the fruit of our work realized, waiting for a government that, of course, cannot find agreements, waiting, in fact, for a settlement and mutual understanding, which unfortunately, however, are not found within the normal and correct parliamentary debate, but outside, in pacts that are extra-parliamentary and have to do with justice. I would therefore like to ask the Undersecretary whether it would not have been better to deal with Article 30 also courageously, to open a debate rather than leave it in limbo because we have not yet closed it, resolved it and we are still waiting to see how agreements on these and other fundamental aspects such as anti-corruption, short divorce and many other matters which the Government seems to want to assume in spite of the fact that justice is being framed in the Commission, are under discussion, and for some the amendment phase has already been closed. I should like to close my speech with an invitation which is more than an invitation, I would say an ultimatum, even if I am not in a position to intimidate it. However, it must be made clear to the Italians that we hope that a subject such as the European one, like everything that concerns Europe and everything that concerns our relations with Europe, can be dealt with differently, with a more serious method, respecting the parliamentary committees and the two chambers (which are still there). [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and the Senators Candiani and De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u19	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u20	Mr President, representative of the Government, we have examined the two reports in a very constructive spirit in the Commission, supported by the excellent rapporteurs, Senator Cardinali and Senator Floris, but also by a constructive spirit which we have always recorded in Commission 14a. I believe that no one in the majority or in the government can complain about a Commission which I constantly believe, during the examination of all the measures it has taken, has always tried to undress the role or membership of majority or opposition political groups in order to try to do the best in an area that has become extremely delicate. More and more often (we have also heard this during the examination of the constitutional reform bill) we hear that we have become more a region of Europe than a sovereign state. How many times, in how many measures, in how many actions of our daily life are we not only influenced but determined in our action by what Europe decides? And we cannot allow Europe to decide for us or to decide without us, without our contribution and support. This awareness was taken up by the Commission, which has always worked with this spirit. The attitude towards us, who are opposed, has also been absolutely constructive with regard to the measures under consideration, has been aimed at studying the elements of favor and disfavor. When faced with a Commission that knows how to work and wants to work like this, we expect a Government that can live up to responsible attitudes, because it is not always easy, Mr. Government representative, to represent the opposition, the part of those who are not in government and do so with a great sense of responsibility. An additional attention and capacity on the part of the Government is expected. And what does that consist of? In the ability to make organic, to make open, to make transparent and visible not only what you have ahead but what you must have in perspective. We cannot continue to deal in an emerging climate with such an important and fundamental subject for the daily lives of our citizens; we cannot continue to deal with the issue of Community policies (ascending or descending phase) on the basis of an emergency that exists because otherwise an infringement procedure will open up to us that will cost us millions of euros or that will keep us out of the European circuits. Here, this state of emergence does not call for responsibility, because it would lead those who are not in the government to say that the offence is the fault of those who have the duty to act and do not, so the political consequences are also mourned. We didn't do this. We have never had an opposition culture that is not also a culture of responsibility towards the country and its citizens. Similarly, we would expect an attitude of greater awareness of the overall picture. I agree with Mrs Mussini: agriculture cannot be reduced to orange juice from 12% to 20% in orange juice, or to the classification of the organoleptic qualities of extra virgin olive oil or simply virgin olive oil. There is an overall problem for which the senator and the parliamentarians in general must be placed in a position to be in place with respect to an overall view of the sector. For this reason, when such measures are presented, the Government cannot fail to give an organic view by saying that the matter is influenced by the Treaties, by bilateral treaties, by treaties which also result from the observance of our membership of the European Union. What to say? If I were to talk about my Sicily, I would say that agriculture is absolutely on the knees because of the treaty between Italy and Morocco: we allow the entry into our territory and our markets - and, through our territory and our markets, they are allowed to land in Europe - of products that instead could not do so because the cherry tomato that is produced in Morocco has yes and no the same form as what is produced in Pachino, but in that land is produced without any control on the phytopharmaceuticals that are used, so from a health point of view it is not in order. These rules are strictly, and rightly so, demanded by our farmers and farmers. Without considering a labour force of 1,20 euros per day of social security contributions in Moroccan territory that turns into 12,80 euros in the national territory. When we simply say that we have adopted an Italian-Moroccan treaty, we say, by translating the term into another language, that we have killed our agriculture and our ability, in this case, to produce cherry tomatoes, which, among other things, from the point of view of consumer protection, will be eaten in Stuttgart rather than in Paris as tomato pachino, that is, as tomato that has that origin. So, the complexity of the issue makes us say that we are here to support and vote on this measure but also to point out critical issues that we consider important. The semi-empty Chamber itself gives a sense of approval which seems almost a duty of its own; it seems like we have to do so, therefore patience; and instead these are much more important than many other legislative measures for which we record not only presence but also vehemence in interventions, passion in addressing issues. We're doing it all wrong. On this subject we must make a profound reflection as a Parliament, regardless of our positions: either we re-establish a centrality of attention, and therefore of intervention, on this matter, or we will not do the interests of Italy. Among other things, it is all Community directives which, for the system of training will at European level, do not come from Parliament and therefore from a popular representation. These directives are often formed within the Commissions, by Community Commissioners where bureaucrats are the masters, those who, regardless of what is happening in the territories, identify problems and solutions. We are therefore in danger of giving real strength and validity to measures that have never had the opportunity of confrontation, of responding to sentiment and to the direct needs of the population. With regard to this centrality, we have heard nothing at the press conference to present the thousand days of the Renzi Government on the issues of Community policy. And if this happens to mean that we are moving towards a continuation of the past on this issue, we argue that it is absolutely wrong. With regard to Community policies, this is the time for discontinuity and genuine accountability. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Today we are faced with a measure that we would define in other contexts omnibus because it contains rules of a fiscal nature, which regulate the world of work, agriculture and mobility. Well, we have to organize ourselves so that for subjects or for couples of directives or interventions we can be absolutely organic. Soon the government will be sending the new report to Parliament - my colleague, Mr Floris, tells me that this will happen after the State-Regions Conference. Let us hope that this is - I say this in a rhetorical way - the dawn of a new beginning. We would like to test the will of a different attitude of the Government, because we do not want to examine what the Government has decided to be worthy of consideration by the Commission, but to examine what the country needs as an element of intervention, as a necessity to modify something or to introduce something new. In fact (if you will have noticed, Mr Undersecretary), our economy is very bad and for those aspects where it is bad because of our membership of the European Union and therefore because of the powers we have in the Commission we would like to be able to intervene directly. So, in advance, I hope that you will allow us to change the method from the past by perhaps providing for a consultation that will allow us to understand whether, during these months of work in the Commission, needs have emerged that the Government has not felt at the time of paying attention. What I want to propose to you and this House today is a different centrality of Community policies. The 14th Commission must feel a bit like the Budget Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs and Budget, because it is an interactive Commission, horizontal in relation to the responsibilities of so many Commissions. We have heard of the importance of the issue of justice, but all the Commissions are interested in some measures which also affect the competence of the 14th The Commission and therefore, Mr Secretary, you who have this delegation must feel it on your shoulders and you must warn it as important. And it will be all the more important the more it will be the expression of what really is felt by the overall sensitivity as determining for the future of our country. We change method and, probably, by changing political-institutional method, by changing method within the Senate, we will be able to transmit this change to our state bureaucracies, because these bureaucracies are still not reasoning in terms of belonging to the European Union. Very often we see that we are talking about watertight compartments not taking into account this. We are in the course of the Italian Presidency of the Union, we are at an important moment, so perhaps we are looking more at other Community countries. In any case, it would be nice, it would be important if, precisely because of this responsibility, we were able to give a sign at European level. It is very unhonorable, in fact, that we who are chairing the European Union face today, 4 September, the law of delegation. I hope that does not happen. I very much hope that these indications will be accepted. [[Applause from Senators Bernini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Berger, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the members of the European Union's Political Commission, of which Mr Berger is a member, for the work he has done and for the attention he has paid to this measure which is undoubtedly complex. It has now become a fixed appointment that of European law which is also an opportunity to make a small review of the relations between Italy and the European Union and therefore also on the significance of our country's participation in that Union at a time when, moreover, Italy takes over the leadership of the European semester. It is not an easy situation, it is also worrying the number of infringements to which Italy is still subject, and obviously this situation, almost emerging, worries us and also gives the figure of a situation in which something does not work and therefore of a Europe that, while being strategic, important and decisive in our convictions, evidently fails to relate to our national reality and sometimes gives the impression of putting in trouble rather than helping the countries that make up it to grow and to connect better with the rest of the world. Our wish and commitment, especially during the European Semester, under Italian leadership, will be aimed at changing Europe's relationship with its member countries in such a way that it can truly become a Europe that co-ordinates but the diversity but that, while carrying out joint action, nevertheless manages to guarantee the diversity and the specific difficulties that the member countries have. I will give just two examples of how European legislation is struggling to relate to our realities. These are examples, however, which I draw from the two agendas presented by our Group, which have been approved by the Commission, which I naturally thank for the sensitivity shown. The first agenda, presented by myself and then signed by my colleagues, refers to the road haulage sector and in particular to the need to put in place strong action by the European Union against unfair cabotage. It is to all known that the field of the road haulage covers a fundamental importance in Europe, and in particular for our Country, and that today this field crosses a very strong economic crisis due to the economic crisis, certainly, but above all to the unfair competition that is put in field from other Countries that have more favorable fiscal norms and tax pressures much lower, regulations on the job much less rigid. In particular, in recent years, many carriers, especially in Eastern Europe, which have absolutely more advantageous conditions, are occupying all our spaces with very serious consequences for our companies, for the Italian occupation and I would also like to say that these workers who operate here in Italy, in fact pay their contributions in other countries and force our companies to put their workers into the fund integration who then weigh on our social shock absorbers. There is an urgent need for intervention and I must say that Minister Lupi, at the last assembly of ANITA, in which I participated, confirmed the commitment together with Germany and France to take the problem into account and I know that our country has signed a document calling for a position against abusive cabotage. I hope that we will be able to act in a timely manner, otherwise the sector is in real danger of collapse. The other agenda we have approved is the obligation to apply for a criminal record certificate for employers who wish to employ people who have contact with children in their work. Even this European directive, which was clear and did not impose any kind of obligation on the provision of criminal certificates, has brought into turmoil all voluntary associations, especially sports associations and those involved in training. Then there was an urgent clarification by the Government and our agenda, presented by Mr Berger, recalls the need to bring the European provision back to its original explanatory statement and calls for a series of commitments to simplify the life of associations. This is to say that often European legislation, when it is applied in our country, instead of simplifying, complicates and then does nothing but fuel that sense of anti-Europeanism or, in any case, of distrust in the European institutions that absolutely must be opposed, because Europe today more than ever is fundamental and strategic. Let's just think about what Italy could do on its own today, in this chessboard that sees opposing groups between America and Russia and the whole Arab world in turmoil, if Europe were divided. Today, being able to pursue a common, strong and agreed European policy is absolutely essential in order to be able to function as a balance between worlds that are really in turmoil and that concern us all. However, there are some aspects of this European law that I would like to mention: some rules on uniformity in banking supervision, on credit rating agencies, rules concerning the world of work, on supplementary insurance, a sector that undoubtedly needs to be developed much more in Italy (and European experiences will help us). I also recall the uniformity of criminal rules and the guarantee of rights, some rules on immigration, refugees and return, anti-fraud, training courses and marketing standards. Above all, I would like to focus on the areas in which we must and can do more: in particular, on the training and recognition of qualifications. Our Group has supported with great conviction - and I have highlighted it several times in my speeches in this House - the need to work more on the school-work link and the intention of this Government to relate to the German model of the dual school is, in our opinion, absolutely right. We must do more in this area, as well as in the field of equality of qualifications, so that students can move more within the European Union and assimilate the experiences of other countries. In this respect, it is clear that it is absolutely urgent, I would like to say almost dramatic, to invest more in languages, without which we do not move and we do not understand each other. Investment in languages is therefore absolutely essential. We need, as I said earlier, to coordinate European policies but not to approve them. I have to say that the proposal for a common agricultural policy which came out of the European Commission is absolutely balanced and I hope that the Italian Government, which is implementing it, will appreciate the particular ideas and sensitivities which, for example, have been devoted to the mountains. This sensitivity in understanding that we need a common regulation for agri-food on European territory and that we also need to take account of the different conditions of the individual territories is certainly the right way to go. Similarly, we hope that Europe will also take greater account of territories, those with strong identities and special forms of autonomy, such as ours, with stories that also go beyond national borders. It is well known to all that our territory, where an EGTC has been set up, that is to say a European group of territorial cooperation, is waiting for Italy to transpose the Additional Protocol to the Madrid Convention in order to be able to constitute a genuine Euregio: the European Regions are not an attack on national unity, but instead are a way to bring closer and foster European integration between States, constructive relations and projects between different States, as well as to reunite - in our case - regions that were historically united, but above all to develop relations and to grow that European culture that today is objectively lacking. It is no coincidence that President Renzi, in his visit to the Brenner tunnel yard, said that precisely in this year, in which the centenary of the beginning of the Great War occurs, in the places where two countries faced each other and the soldiers killed themselves, today we are working to build a tunnel that will unite those two countries. A greater commitment must be made to immigration policy: it is clear that it can no longer happen that Austria sends back immigrants who have passed through Italy. This situation has now become a real emergency and it is no longer conceivable that it is faced with such an uncoordinated policy. I hope that from this point of view the European Semester under Italian leadership, on the one hand, and on the other, above all, the appointment of Minister Mogherini as a high European representative for foreign and security policy - I naturally wish you a good job and, although it is not an easy task, I am sure that it will succeed - will really help to change the policy of separate policies so far. The hope is that a single policy can be found: Italy needs it, but the whole of Europe needs it. Another point on which greater coordination is needed is that of procurement. The conditions under which European companies operate are well known to all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am. In particular, our Italian companies must be able to compete on equal terms. I would like to thank my fellow Members for having accepted our amendment on the European Certificate of Succession, which safeguards the historical regulation linked to the land book in our territories. I should like to conclude by wishing that this European law can really give an extra boost to Italy's contribution to the process of strengthening the European Union. The Trentino is the land of De Gasperi: on the occasion of the Autonomy Day, scheduled for 5 and 6 September, the De Gasperi Prize will be presented to Romano Prodi. I hope that this too will help to ensure that Europe is no longer seen as a superstructure and that the passion of the founding fathers is regained. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u23	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Gozi, today we are called to examine jointly the draft laws relating to the delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union (European delegation law 2013-second semester) and the provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union (European law 2013- bis). I would like to focus in particular on the European delegation law which provides for the transposition of two important European asylum directives: Directive 2013/32/EU, which lays down common procedures for the recognition and withdrawal of international protection status, and Directive 2013/33/EU, which lays down rules for the reception of applicants for international protection. Article 7 also provides for a delegation to the Government for the adoption of a single text of the provisions implementing EU legislation on international protection and temporary protection. As the news tells us, they are all topics of great topicality and gravity, as well as of interest of all the Italian public opinion. This could therefore have been an opportunity to equip our country with a body of organic norms for the discipline of international protection, which would have guaranteed a higher level of protection, not only for migrants, but also for those who daily face this dramatic emergency (I am talking about all the operators who in the context of the Mare nostrum mission help to save so many lives), while it has changed, in my opinion, to a great missed occasion. I am referring, in particular, to the fate of Articles 8 and 9 during the procedure for approving the measure in the House, which were included in the course of the work in the Commission and then suddenly deleted at the time of approval in this House. These articles, then partially taken up by an agenda approved in the Commission, essentially aimed at providing specific criteria for the adoption of the aforementioned directives, introducing principles of absolute importance, which not only make the existing procedures more effective and systemic, whose shortcomings and malfunctions have long been known (just remember the strong censorship against our country contained in a report of September 2012, published by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Nils Muižnieks), but also to strengthen the standards of guarantee provided for by the current legislation, and in particular those provided for in relation to unaccompanied minors. Of particular importance were the rules aimed at ensuring the professionalisation of the staff involved in the evaluation of individual applications for protection, while ensuring that the staff responsible for the evaluation of asylum applications was sufficient to carry out the tasks envisaged, depending on the changes in the number of applications over time. We are witnessing a boom - unfortunately - of these demands and should be adequately matched by the people who can carry out these tasks. Moreover, of particular importance were the rules aimed at ensuring uniform interpretation of the criteria for the recognition of international protection, as well as respect for procedural guarantees, through mechanisms for monitoring the reception and quality control conditions of the system, as well as the rules aimed at strengthening the guarantee levels for unaccompanied minors and vulnerable persons, as referred to in Article 8 of Legislative Decree No 140 of 30 May 2005, on the basis of an individual assessment. If I may, I would like to say a few more words on this subject. Unaccompanied foreign minors account for 10 percent of the total number of migrants arriving by sea. According to estimates, out of a total of about 59,400 migrants arrived from 1 January to 22 June 2014, more than 9,300 are minors, of which more than 6,000 are unaccompanied, of an average age between 14 and 17 years (in some cases even less than 12-13 years old). They all come from areas characterised by conflicts, humanitarian emergencies or situations of serious danger or insecurity for the population. Behind these impressive numbers are past stories of violence, abandonment, poverty and - today - loneliness. They are young people who arrive in Italy without reference adults who accompany them and, for this reason, are more exposed to new abuses, dangers and exploitation. To date, the first reception is, unfortunately, done in an emerging way: minors are hosted in often inadequate structures, where they remain waiting to be transferred elsewhere and to begin a path of integration. This expectation, however, can last months, also because often the target communities are already at the limit of their ability to receive, to use a euphemism. With regard to this, I would like to recall the draft law presented by my colleague, Senator Bignami, who is unfortunately not present today, whose main aim is to fill the absence of general discipline in favour of all immigrants with special needs. This is a good measure which, if approved, would ensure a significant step forward in the field of international protection and the protection of human rights, but which - as is all too often the case - has been bogged down in the unfathomable meanders of our parliamentary work. Returning to the elimination of the articles, therefore, what remains is a real delegation in white to the Government for the adoption of a single text that collects all the provisions for the implementation of the acts of the European Union in the matter of asylum and subsidiary protection. This, therefore, is the white delegation that we are giving to the Government, but - it's not an ironic joke - I do not see mentioned on the website "Pass after step". I hope that, even with this advertising mode (let's say so), it will be a sign of real attention to a problem of humanity, because we are talking about this. In any case, this delegation in white raises considerable doubts from the point of view of constitutional legitimacy. The same report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate shows that in the delegation referred to in article 7, paragraph 1, it would be necessary to expressly indicate the principles and guiding criteria for its exercise. It should therefore be logically considered that the delegation concerns a single text which is merely a compilation text, which could justify the absence of the above-mentioned delegation criteria. I wonder why the Government has not chosen to use the simplified procedure for the adoption of the single compilation texts, which does not provide for the need for a specific delegation, as is foreseen in this article 7. I conclude by recalling that Article 10 of the Constitution recognises the right of asylum to foreigners who do not enjoy democratic freedoms, demonstrating the high value of this right in the Italian legal order. I repeat: the solution to the problem is not to reject these people, branding them as hypothetical threats to our system or our health, like some politician, or supposedly such, lately it is babbling. The solution is to equip ourselves, as quickly as possible, with effective instruments to ensure the protection of the weakest and those who, every day, fight to defend them. And this is not right-wing or left-wing goodness, but it is mere humanity. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u25	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u26	Mr President, taking advantage of the presence of Mr Gozi, I would like to address a single issue. We know the whole history of the European Community, how it is born, develops and expands, but the main function remains the original one: the Community is born as an instrument for the reconciliation and development of the various state communities, but in essence it is committed to making its citizens feel better. If we are to be honest, legislation has been enacted by the European Union which has influenced the Member States and has actually made it possible to make progress in this direction. We continue to want to divide Europe from the euro area: if we share much - not everything - of Europe, with the euro we basically ended up in a meat grinder that weakened us. The ruin of Italy depends largely on the error of the currency exchange, which has not been calibrated on the Italian economy. But if I wanted to deal with the speech in these terms, I would come out of the seed. On the other hand, I would like to focus exclusively on one issue: work and workers. There has been European attention to this issue and we have adopted important rules, such as those on safety at work, while we are implementing those on maximum weekly working hours. Even before, with the free movement of workers, any impediment to the ability of workers to operate in Europe has been removed. If we want to, the European Union has perhaps concentrated even more on the consumer citizen and the consumer of goods and services, towards which the protection action has been very strong: those who were called monopolies have been undermined; the rules on competition have allowed the citizen to purchase services certainly at lower costs, while those on the transparency of contracts have helped them to understand what was best done. These rules worked pretty well and improved the quality of life of citizens, allowing them to save and have more resources available for other needs and needs. Much has also been done to improve people's living conditions: just think of noise pollution, and not just in the workplace. Rules have been introduced whereby a citizen can finally live and work without being forced into a virtually uninhabitable environment. The issue of food safety was then addressed: someone today recalled that, when we drink orange juice, we need to know that at least a little orange is contained in the package (at least 20 percent). So far, so good. What's missing, Undersecretary? The last piece is missing: we have prepared a series of guarantees on the quality of life of people until they move on to another type of life, that is, until they retire. Since then, the European Union, as well as our internal system, has forgotten the worker. Case studies are endless: let's assume that a worker, during his working period, worked for several institutions and ended up paying multiple social security funds and, therefore, finding contributions scattered across various social security institutions. At the time there was the possibility to make the famous reunion, but not all have done so: not all have been alerted and warned and someone, at the end of his working life, finds himself to gather and to put together all the periods in which he worked for the one or the other agency. In order to do this, he might be told by the last institution, where he will receive the pension, that such a grouping of contributions has impossible costs. And these are really impossible costs, so much so that even the entire liquidation of the worker would not be enough to reach that figure and to meet, therefore, the demands of the institutions. So, Mr. Gozi, what we ask of the government is not difficult. If a citizen changes cities, he will probably be forced to change banks too and, therefore, he will take his money from the bank and deposit them at the bank "B" and everything will remain as before. He has a "peculio" and carries it. I wonder why it is not possible to do the same with contributions, which are the small "peculio" of those who paid them. A person who has worked abroad or in Italy - but let's also leave the case of work abroad, which could create problems, although within the European Union they should not exist - should be able to bring that small piece of work into the new cash register, where it can be updated and recounted. That figure, however, must always remain, because it is his money that has been set aside. I would ask, therefore, whether it is possible to achieve this type of automation. Therefore, considering the portfolio of the worker citizen, who has paid contributions to an institution or a cashier, when he changes work and cash, it must be possible to carry everything he has paid, without charges, without inconvenience and above all without penalties. This seems to us, Mr Undersecretary, to be a matter of absolute simplicity: perhaps it will not be for the Italian bureaucracy. But if we were just to take this step in favour of second-life workers, that of retirement, it would already be a good thing. On this, Mr Undersecretary, we have presented an agenda, which we ask all colleagues who share the matter to sign, being free and open. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Gaetti and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u27	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, how many times, with the fateful phrase: Europe is asking us to do so. Have sacrifices been justified beyond what is possible and imaginable? It is a magical phrase with which we have fallen, between head and neck, measurements frankly unsustainable for our country, like the notorious fiscal compact, that shortly will impose a new maneuver "tears and blood." In short, what has passed is the image of an Italian student who is far too obedient to Brussels, and lately we have had, even if not just a first student of the class - because then we will probably see some beautiful questions - for sure a pupil excessively and extremely obsequious, sitting at the first bench in the Merkel class. I am referring, of course, to our President-in-Office. This is true - I am referring to our obedient aspect - but only when it comes to cuts, taxes and forceful maneuvers. However, when Europe expresses itself through the speeches of political direction and the condemnations of its courts of justice, the speech changes radically. In other words, when it comes to our rights, the rights of Italians, the Government listens as a merchant: from solving the emergency of waste to ensuring that the public administration pays debts to companies and repays them VAT refunds in a reasonable time, until the respect of disabled people, prisoners and consumers. Our country, ladies and gentlemen - it has been said many times this morning, but I would like to stress this - boasts an unhappy record. At 31 December 2013, the infringement proceedings against Italy were 104, of which 80 for violation of rules and 24 for non-transposition of new regulations. According to the latest update of the website of the European Policy Department, the number of infringement proceedings against our country has dropped to 101 cases, of which 80 for violation of EU law, thus leaving the situation unchanged, and 21 for failure to transpose directives. In essence, in 2014 we only matched up with the transposition of three directives. We therefore remain above 100: this means that such a large number places our country in the final position among the Member States of the European Union as regards the fulfilment of EU law itself. This is a position that greatly weakens the reliability of Italy; reliability, of course, but also money, lots of money, obviously public. Just think that the minimum fine that Brussels can adopt against Italy, at the end of the litigation, is 8 million euros, to which are added penalties from 10,000 to 642,000 euros per day, for every day when the country does not fall into legality after the final judgment. These are figures that make people angry, especially in a period of crisis such as that which Italy is experiencing and which citizens are aware of every day. It is therefore necessary to speed up the implementation of the European directives. However, I also invite you to stay with your eyes and ears well open to listen to suggestions and solutions that often come from the country, from ordinary citizens and from those who work there every day. Let us not only keep up with our European partners, but also go a little further, perhaps by giving an example. Going beyond - as we of the 5 Star Movement sometimes boast to do - is a much easier thing to do than to say. Sometimes, in fact, it is just a dove's egg. We could - for example - step by step - as our President-in-Office of the Council says, who obviously realized that running does not arrive sooner and sometimes brings little safety - read and understand the content of the measures we approve, without losing the ratio that motivates them and without losing the exhaustive framework of application implications in the short, medium and long term. It is much better to read carefully, to consult and understand what Brussels writes to us, than to provide short and quick answers just to make a good impression because we are at the Presidency of the European Semester. Before introducing in our regulatory system, already pletoral of its own, the umpteenth modification - I dare say "no changes" because fictitious, useless and harmful, because there is no useless thing that is harmless, and I challenge any one of you to provide me with a single example in order to challenge this my statement - we must think that redundancy, which is different from the exhaustiveness and completeness of the meanings and situations also of detail, often necessary, always penalizes the right, injuring the effectiveness of the norm, creating ambiguity and confusion and, at best, wasting time. Gentlemen, what is more precious than the time that, merciless, is - alas - so fugitive? If Europe is wrong, we must be able to argue the mistakes and counter them, so that we do not unfairly pay sanctions. I am a novice to this Palace - you can see every day the tangible signs and limits of my inexperience - but the area I want to face, with reference to article 13, I know it very well, being my work and having had experience under different angles: private, public, research, surveillance, experience directed by freelancer and vigilance. This means knowing the problem from the point of view of workers, firms, universities, scientific societies, bilateral bodies and supervisory bodies. I then come to briefly illustrate Article 13 of the draft law in question, which intervenes on Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, making some amendments to Articles 28 (the object of risk assessment) and 29 (the mode of carrying out the risk assessment). As has been suggested by the 14th Commission, which I thank once again in this House for an amendment which the tight deadlines and the excitement of the period prior to the summer suspension, where, of course, the main protagonist was the examination of constitutional reforms, have prevented a thorough examination. Mr Undersecretary, I address you above all, because I trust in your intervention in this regard: unfortunately, Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, amended not by chance by the year with Legislative Decree No. 106 of 2009, is a badly written text (to use euphemism), with several inaccuracies that lend themselves to misunderstandings and with important and penal implications. It is therefore necessary to correct it, especially formally, in order to make it more agile and functional at the time. On the other hand, we must also respond appropriately to those who expose us to sanctions that are at the limit of duty and probably, if there had been anyone in Europe who knew the subject well, the issue could be clarified and resolved instantly. I'll cut to the chase. In the first instance, as mentioned in the 14th Commission, the European Commission has taken a colossal mistake, because it confuses the risk assessment, which is a process that starts immediately at the start of the business and continues without solution, and therefore also in the event of changes, with the risk assessment document. In Articles 28 and 29 of Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008 the two are rightly distinct. The evaluation begins at the beginning of the activity and never stops: it is a continuous process and in the making, a film shooting. The document, on the other hand, is the photograph at the time of the assessment, certified by the date of the assessment and by the signature made jointly by the employer, the head of the prevention and protection service (RSPP), the competent doctor and the representative of the workers. Another confusion has arisen between communication to workers' representatives for safety and available document, which are two very different things. There is no need to resort to a relentless change, which is more appropriate to the work of a good thing than that of a streamlined, innovative and modern legislator, as our President-in-Office of the Council also suggests that we be. Let's give him an act: he wrote it clearly in all his slides, which say nothing but the titles are very clear. The implementing decrees are missing, but the titles are really nice. Lately we have had beautiful titles like jobs act and unlock Italy, which seem wonderful episodes. I therefore ask you to unlock us, to thaw us from bad habits so reluctant to vanish. Let's start making connections. It will be that, by trade, I am used to seeing the person, the sick in all his staff. One doctor cannot treat one organ by ignoring another: he knows very well that, if the lung does not work, sooner or later the heart will also suffer. Then I wonder why to be so lazy and shortsighted as not to connect what is already present in the norm and not to correct, since we are there, even the errors that appear obvious and obvious. If - for example - in a city you want to put optical fibers, and then you do the work of digging, but I see that the pipes of the aqueduct lose water or that those of the gas are damaged, what do I do? I quickly reset everything and put on the asphalt, to open again a second and a third time, causing infinite inconveniences to citizens, hindering the road and exponentially increasing public spending? Yes, in fact, this is what is done in Italy. I have seen it several times: we see it every day in Rome, which is an open construction site; I also see it in my region, the Marches, and I saw it in Bologna and I could tell you about the episodes that, if they were not so dramatic for their implications, would look like a joke. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to change. Let's give an example, because this time it doesn't cost us anything. Correcting - and I have tabled two amendments which I invite you, when we vote, to approve - we could for once be the ones to lecture Europe and to stress how it often looks at straws and not substance. On this point, that of the safety and health of workers, taking lessons from Europe makes me very dry, because in the fifties we were in this model. I always remember the decree of the President of the Republic n. 303 of 1956: in legislative decree n. 81 of 2008 has been copied all the directive machines. In 2000, therefore, we copied what had been done in 1956. Verify: this is really the case. In order to fulfil the timely obligation of communication, on which we are reproached by Europe, combining form, substance and effectiveness - we would content Europe, but doing things of common sense and a good figure and not the right things - just a very little, an egg of Columbus: it would be enough to add the following words to Article 28, paragraph 3- bis: In this case, the employer shall forward a copy of the communication referred to in Article 67 to the safety representatives of the workers in advance; and in Article 29, paragraph 3: In the more part of the document, the procedures laid down in Article 67 and Article 28, paragraph 3-a, last sentence of this Article shall apply. It would also be a good rule to correct the presence of the competent physician from the first risk assessment. Otherwise, we would soon find ourselves, when they find out - they have not yet noticed it, but the mistake is there - another infringement procedure for the obvious incongruity. Article 67 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 is the famous preliminary declaration (once provided for in Article 48 of Legislative Decree No. 626 of 1994) whereby a company, when it is installed, in addition to its feasibility, must also present to the ASL the list of the main risks of the spaces. This has been solved through a unified and shared model in all Italian ASLs. The model, therefore, we already have it: a new company that installs itself presents itself to ASL, pursuant to Article 67 of the aforementioned Decree No 81 (ex Article 48 of Legislative Decree No 626 of 1994), the explanation of what the risks are. In this case, it would be sufficient to add the column in the model: "Main prevention measures" in order to already have a preliminary risk assessment, done instantly. The most important thing... [[Recalls of the President]] Why does the bell ring? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because he's out of time. I had 20 minutes. I'm almost done. But it's been 20 minutes already? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Group has communicated fifteen of these and we are giving it an extra minute, but it must conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'll come to the conclusion. I would also ask you to include the presence of the competent doctor immediately. The competent doctor - I remember - is obliged to participate in the risk assessment (Article 25 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 punishes him otherwise) and to provide training; he is also obliged to have the health surveillance of workers carried out only when necessary. By doing so, in any case, we would do a useful work and would not waste this opportunity. Let us try for once, as the good doctor would, to cure all the diseases of the patient and not to leave unsolved the most serious. We try to be good politicians, to read what we are voting on, and to make, when possible, the appropriate amendments to the texts before us, as in this case, where we have the opportunity to adopt a rule that goes in the right direction. This is really the right direction. Let's do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u30	Mr President, a normal day at the end of the summer, coming back from vacation, like the one we are living today, can suddenly become the cornerstone of parliamentary life because of the importance that European delegation law and European law end up giving to the urban and daily paths of society, of men and women, of national institutions and of the economy. Talking about it among these benches is a must, a sort of checkpoint of legislative paths between EU directives, EU law, EU law and national legislation. Undoubtedly, it is in the weighted, critical, reasoned, comparative exercise between national and European legislation, the wonder of Europe becoming a continent, a community of peoples, a European nation. By paradox, it is enclosed in this stage of adoption and transposition of obligations, constraints, violations, openings and infringements, the imaginary concept of belonging to the great European dream, as well as idealized and anticipated by the Community fathers. From the metropolitan suburbs, rural districts and productive suburbs of Italy comes the interweaving of questions from citizens, workers and professionals, young people and adults about the usefulness of Europe, the role of Europe and its physical representations such as the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. It is, in short, the needs of the local communities that mark the path of the Union. It becomes a paradigm for what the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, said effectively when he launched a desperate cry for the inconsistencies of the European Pact to political Europe: They tell us the size of the swordfish to be fished, but they leave us alone to manage the migratory flows in the Mediterranean. This attitude that echoes cynicism - I say it without disdain, but noting with you, senators and senators, and with all the country, what is happening aberrant and tragic between the southern coasts of Europe and the northern coasts of Africa - inevitably causes disconcerting and plunges us all into the limbo of anti-European culture, and often of anti-Community inculturation, with the risk that this molasses of malaise will become racism and turn into xenophobia, into a hostile attitude. At this topical moment of crisis of the values and significance of the Union in the continuing socio-economic crisis that grabs our fellow citizens' throats, as never for a few decades, it is right that we listen to the embarrassing indifference that rises from the bowels of the country so that, through legislative acts such as those to the attention of today's sitting, good norms and directives are given to civil society to alleviate hardships, to recover delays, to give courage in companies, to urge them to do business in the agricultural world, in food, in the manufacturing sector, in research, in teaching, in transport and communications, in the administration of justice, in the exercise of credit. It therefore seems extraordinary to us, with the opportunity offered to us today, the materialization of the concept of the European Union, a full, conscious and responsible concept. To adopt responsible acts from the European and national point of view becomes, therefore, a warning for us and for future generations. This takes on the meaning of spur so as not to be intimidated by the crisis. On the contrary, the more Parliament and the Commission will work diligently towards Europe and its dictates, the more Italy will be able to ride the crisis, to harness it in regimented routes and with controllable outcomes. The task of our national assemblies is, therefore, to work for this to happen. Above all, it is up to the Government to interpret it in a determined, coriaceous spirit. Big responsibilities are at the head of the government. We are discussing delegation law and compliance with obligations arising from membership of the Union for 2013, but we are at the end of 2014. Time is pressing. The attitude of the Government, which holds us late until late in August, to approve a smoky Senate reform law, seems to be unjustifiable and instead does not submit to us any measures of a European nature that - as we have seen - is of great importance in the everyday life, in all the productive and institutional sectors, of all the Italians. I would like to stress the responsible attitude of Forza Italia in the 14th Commission. Putting ourselves in opposition does not make us veil the responsibilities we have towards the country and its supreme interests, which come before the interests of partisans. On other occasions, in reverse parts, we have not witnessed constructive attitudes. Our attitude to optimism belongs to liberal and popular education. We therefore remove from the Government and its majority the embarrassment of Community sanctions on the infringement imposed on Italy due to the delay in payments of public administration debts to companies. That's how we help the country system. We appeal to the Premier: the law of European delegation and European law, together with our six months of European leadership, constitute the opportunity to clarify everything and reassure the Italians about the real state of the country, without deceiving it, without inflaming anyone. We cannot afford it and we will not allow it to President Renzi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u32	Mr President, after thanking the rapporteurs, the Commission and the President for the work they have done, I would like to try to make a very brief point, but first of all I would like to make two premises, also in the light of the debate I have heard in this House today. The first premise is the following. I believe that the European context of relations, which concerns the structures that have been defined in the European Union in recent months and which are being defined even in recent days, can be trivialized - as has been done in many interventions - or can be continued to give a caricature of the way Italy is in the European Union, in the European institutions, or how it is viewed and seen in the European institutions. However, I would like to respond to this by saying that a Parliament such as the Italian Parliament would have all the interest - and we would all have the interest in this Parliament - in considering what is undeniable: the appointments and the debate held in the European institutions these days speak to us - and we should, I repeat, all be pleased - of an Italy that counted and made a strong contribution, determining the choices that have taken place to a greater extent than in the past. For the other premise I wish to make, I address Senator Mussini. Senator, you are right: the fact that we have been engaged for three weeks in a marathon on constitutional reform is questionable. I say this now, but I do not believe - and whoever has been in the Commission knows this - that this has prevented a serious debate on the rules that we are examining today. I would like to say to you, Senator Mussini, that - in my opinion - we have devoted a month of work to an important reform necessary for the country, that is, that the Italian Parliament considered necessary for the country. If there has been something grotesque about this, I share with Senator Mussini that the marathon has indeed been grotesque, but it has forced us to block 8,000 amendments which have certainly not helped to make the debate on constitutional reform more serious. Having said that, I would also like to stress that the Government has made a choice on the discussion of these European norms, the choice, intended, to anticipate some norms, removing them and including them in the competitiveness decree. I think that choice was right. It was the intelligent choice of those who considered it more urgent to remedy some of the infringements on which we were likely to suffer immediate consequences. We intervened with that decree on some environmental issues: water, reclamations and environmental impact assessments. We needed this in order to avoid the infringements; they needed - I mean - Italian companies, because simplifying the path of the Bonifiche in this country means having unlocked in these months many yards that the legal uncertainty existing in the country had partially blocked and prevented to develop. With that decree we have intervened in this area and I believe that we have done well to remove those rules. However, I want to say very clearly, because we must not make fun of ourselves, that the deletion of those rules was shared with the parliamentary committees, both from the 13th and from the 14th. In the same way - I mean it and if anything the rapporteur will clarify better - I do not understand that it was only the Democratic Party, under the usual and supposed blackmail of the Government, who asked for the removal of Article 30 from this legislation, because even a significant part of the opposition made this request, which was finally accepted. Having said that, briefly, I would like to highlight one aspect. We are voting on two laws that are used to prevent our country from continuing to incur infringements and we must apply some directives. However, we are now faced with a strange debate because, on the one hand, we complain (justly) that we owe too much to Europe because we have too many offences to cure, but on the other hand, when we resolve a series of disputes, as we are doing in this parliamentary passage, it is no longer good; and perhaps it is not good because we are always faced with a situation in which Europe imposes on Italy. I want to say very clearly that all the rules contained in these two laws are useful to the country, they are not appointments that we are undergoing; unless Senator Candiani considers that food health, environmental measures, rules to guarantee the rules for the payment of debts of the public administration and norms on equal opportunities do not serve the country. I think that these are rules that make it possible to improve our legislation, and I also say this by looking at two specific issues that I think are important. For example, I think that the prohibition of discrimination on access to services on the basis of residence and nationality criteria within the European Union is a positive fact that will ensure that all European citizens, in any country of our territory, have access to fundamental rights. Just as I think it is right - and thanks to Senator Manconi and Senator Lo Giudice this legislation has been further improved - the idea of regulating the permanence of immigrants in the temporary detention centers where their identities must be verified: clarity is created, cleaner legislation is created, certain times are given, time of expulsion is established and it is also established, finally, that detention is no longer allowed if checks with the countries of origin are not applicable the expulsion measures. I wanted to say these few things because I believe that these laws introduce rules that improve our legislation, rules that are useful for the country. I would also ask the opposition to look at the merits, to avoid cultivars. On the other hand, on the substance, I also register in this debate, as had happened in the 14th century. Commission, a general recognition, a sharing that I believe is wrong to hide only to attack majority and government, but to make a policy far from the needs of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u33	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u34	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u37	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday, in the settlement of Cese di Preturo, one of the 19 new towns, that is, the durable houses built to cope with the post-seismal housing emergency, the tragedy was risked: the balcony of a building fell on the one below and the building was declared inaccessible. President and colleagues, the Berlusconian miracle of about 4,500 houses continues to crumble before the eyes of all the eagles to give a roof to about 16,000 eagles, facing 30,000 left homeless. This insufficient anti-seismic, sustainable and environmentally friendly real estate, carried out through a call covered by Europe's funding of about 500 million euros, has been, since its construction, strongly advertised and exposed also to Pompeii, until it ended up in the surveys, under the lens of the European Court of Auditors (Special Report No 24 of 2012), for the rising costs of 158 percent compared to the standards of prefabricated apartments and 43 percent compared to the standard costs of public building for social purposes. A big deal for mob companies, then failed to answer for nothing, while citizens continue to put us in safety and health and maintenance costs. There are failures, ladies and gentlemen, without an earthquake. Let alone in the presence of a possible earthquake! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These buildings were to be an emblem and a guarantee of security for citizens, who were forbidden by law to return to their homes, declared dangerous and inaccessible. Well, the citizens spent holidays with the buckets to collect water leaks in the rooms and living rooms and the nights to freeze for the breaking of pipes placed outside; they suffered the pollution of the water for the lack, in the hasty construction, even of aseptic pits and photovoltaic systems not working, with megabubbles to pay without the correspondence to individual meters. So, regardless of how much they're earning or if they've lost their jobs, they're suffering other traumas and they're forced to change their homes all of a sudden as they run the risk of just being an impossible dream to see recognized the right to return to their homes. I would point out that, the Home Project is regulated by the same laws in force for the public housing of the Municipality of L'Aquila and the 186 apartments were subsidised with 43 million and are in absolute neglect. I refer to those of Via Milonia and Via Giovanni di Vincenzo, for which there is no project but only disinformation for the citizens, and those of S. Gregorio, whose tenants were forced to return to accommodation with obvious cracks on the walls. I am going back to asking for justice in this House as far as these citizens have lived and live and I urge for the fourth time the discussion of the draft law for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry, which has already been called for several times in the Conference of Leaders. I also hope that in terms of the funding that the Government will allocate to Italian cities, a city that has been marred and deceived will not be forgotten. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-305.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.30 a.m.
