ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u6	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I have asked to speak because I think it is important to ask for account and also to discuss in this House the very serious events that have happened late in the morning. As you will know, many workers from the Terni steel works had arrived in front of the German embassy to ask for a meeting. This is a dispute that many people are following in this House and there was also a major demonstration last week. The incredible thing is that the workers, received from the German embassy, were loaded wildly. This is not a matter of routine, but a grudge that follows the serious facts that had occurred at the event in Turin. We cannot really understand how one can think of responding to the drama that those workers are experiencing, who are struggling desperately to defend their jobs, reserving them that treatment: instead of precise answers from the government and the real opening of a negotiation towards ThyssenKrupp, violent charges come with batons and beatings. It is clear, Madam President, that we are faced with very serious facts, of which some will have to answer. Since there will be a question time with Minister Alfano tomorrow, we are officially asking you to come here to answer and explain what has happened. As everyone knows, Mr President, it has been many years since workers were treated in the streets of this country in this way. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups and the Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u9	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, I would also like to stress the seriousness of this matter, partly because unfortunately it is the second time: months ago, in fact, the same has already happened to the mayor of the city of Terni, at a first demonstration, as Vice-Minister Bubbico will also remember. Today the workers were demonstrating under the German embassy and they had an interview with the ambassador's spokesman, as Mr De Petris recalled, so everything turned to the best and an important meeting was being held at the Ministry of Economic Development between ThyssenKrupp Speciali Acciai Terni's CEO and Minister Guidi. The workers would have wanted to reach the MISE and, for reasons that are being investigated (as the Undersecretary Delrio said, which we appreciate), there were accidents. Two workers were injured and hospitalized at the Umberto I Hospital, with a green code. It is a specious affair, which does not make sense of the reasons behind these demonstrations against an important and significant factory, which represents 20% of the gross domestic product of the entire Umbria region. Therefore we need not only the explanations of the Minister of the Interior and the assurances of the Undersecretary Delrio, but of a leap of true quality - I emphasize it - regarding a story that puts in crisis one of the strategic assets of our country. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u12	SACCONI (NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is indeed appropriate to ascertain as soon as possible the dynamics of the facts and behaviours, both of the workers of the AST of Terni, or of those workers of the AST of Terni who participated in the demonstration, and on the other side of the workers of public security, who would have intervened to contain the procession. I believe that there must be a sincere will to ascertain the dynamics of the facts, because I think that we all recognise the right to the free collective manifestation of opinions and, at the same time, also the duty that this right should be exercised in orderly forms and never in such a way as to conculcate the rights of other citizens, such as those of mobility and freedom of movement. We should know if that procession was going from Piazza Indipendenza to the Ministry of Industry or if it was going to the Termini station. [[Comments from the Mixed-SEL Group]] and if by chance there was an attempt to occupy the same Termini station. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Shame! SACCONI (NCD). These are facts that must be ascertained, in order to be able to be judged without giving a priori... PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Shame! SACCONI (NCD). ...and immediately a class judgment, which no longer seems appropriate to give under these circumstances... [[Live comments from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u13	Colleagues, let Senator Sacconi finish! SACCONI (NCD). ...if we want to have respect for all the workers and all the workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u14	[[Applause from Senator Bianconi. Comments and protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Fascist! SACCONI (NCD). Me, Fascist? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u17	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the last thing we would have liked to see today is workers beating other workers. I say this with great concern, because this is the reality of the facts. It is right to go straight to see what happened, if there are responsibilities on the part of someone, but the political fact is that workers have beaten up other workers at the moment. Here then it takes someone to take the helm, because something is not working in this country, Madam President. The President-in-Office of the Council, from the top of his authority - this is an appeal we make - really makes himself available, since he has the authority and the powers to do so, to clarify this point, but also to do something concrete for the workers. We must do something concrete for the workers, because we have come to the point, in this country, where the workers are ganged by other workers and this is not good. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u18	The Presidency shares the concern about the events that have taken place, which are already making a very tense situation worse.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u21	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, in addition to associating myself with colleagues who have expressed concern about what happened this morning (because it was a very serious act), I wanted to draw attention to the sense of responsibility that both the government and the majority of those in this House should commit. What has been fugitive for years now in Italy is primarily an intelligent industrial policy, and all this is leading to employment crises, caused precisely by productive hemorrhages that are before everyone's eyes and that can create problems of tension, violence and public order. I would remind this House that the 5 Star Movement has tabled a motion at the time for the identification of public security operators in order to ensure that the judiciary is always and in any case able to ascertain the responsibilities of those who go beyond the rules. Today, probably, someone has crossed the line. We do not want an Italy that goes back to exceptional legislation, although I know that all this could be of use to those who have strong powers behind them. Democracy is confrontation and it is precisely the assumption of responsibility. First of all, the Forces of Order would be very pleased to be able to proceed in this light of transparency. It is the task of politics and this Government to accept this discussion. Why can't this debate be framed? Why do we always have to keep generating a cloudy climate? Maybe, because power wants it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u23	Senator Campanella, Senator De Petris has already spoken for her Group. I'll give you a few minutes anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u24	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u25	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that, in a demonstration, policemen must first of all be reassuring to those who demonstrate. This aspect must be fundamental: freedom of expression must be guaranteed. Among the wounded there are national trade union representatives, and the national secretary of the FIOM was also struck. In the face of such a situation, we are talking about something that has slipped out of hand. We believe that, at the base, there is a lack of willingness to listen on the part of the Government, which has also manifested itself with the declarations followed by the demonstration on Saturday 25. We need to change the register completely, because a government is different depending on whether it speaks a lot and acts or listens a lot and then acts. It seems to us that this Government speaks, acts and does not listen, generating a climate that is not what can help us get out of this state of crisis. In all this I note, and invite everyone to consider, that this fact has had the media relevance that it is having because national trade unionists have been hit; under normal conditions, some workers would probably have ended up in hospital raising much less clamor. This must be overcome. I know that the cops have no interest and no intention of going down to the square to strike. Something did not go well, however, and it must be made clear who was wrong so that such situations do not occur on another occasion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked for the intervention of Deputy Minister Bubbico. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u26	Madam President, I have asked for the floor to inform the House that at the moment Mr Guidi is referring to the House of Deputies on the AST issue in Terni. It is an issue that the Government has been following for a long time with great attention, due to the social importance and also to the economic importance that that production site expresses. Two hours ago, Minister Guidi and Deputy Minister De Vincenti met with the leaders of trade union organizations. A further deepening of the terms of the dispute has been carried out and the commitment of the trade unions, institutional representatives and the national government, which, through the direct commitment of Minister Guidi, has been following the story for a long time, has been given to each other. It is therefore desirable that a solution should emerge, even in the particular delicacy of the positions expressed by the parties. As for the events this morning, at the end of the proceedings of the afternoon session, informed by Minister Guidi, I went to the Ministry of Economic Development to participate in a part of that meeting, during which I made the commitment, which was then confirmed by the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, Graziano Delrio (I also spoke on behalf of Minister Alfano), to verify in extremely fast times the dynamics of the facts. This is to offer a picture of certainties and guarantees for everyone. We reserve the right, therefore, to communicate the view of the Ministry of the Interior because of the careful and punctual examination of the dynamics that have been produced during the meeting with the leaders of trade union organizations, which we hypothesized in the first part of today's evening. It seemed to me appropriate to report this to the House. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and the Senators Di Biagio and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u27	I thank the Deputy Minister. The Presidency shares the concern expressed about the events that have taken place today, which mark a very high tension and exasperation on the part of workers who for months have been experiencing the drama of Thyssen and the crisis in the company, of which there is no outlet. I believe that what the Deputy Minister has told us is very important and it is very useful that a comparison be made with the trade unions. If the dynamics of the events have been established by this evening, I believe that Parliament should also be informed of this. The presidency of the Senate, therefore, reserves the right to make contact with Minister Alfano to verify the possibility of tomorrow intervening in the Senate to clarify also to the senators what actually happened today.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u28	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 2, 3 and 4. I recall that the joint debate took place in the afternoon sitting. I communicate that the Presidency has received the following motions for resolutions: No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Molinari, Giovanardi, Centinario, De Petris, Laniece, Di Biagio and Susta, on document XXIII, No 2 and No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Molinari, Giovanardi, Centinario, De Petris, Laniece, Susta and Di Biagio, on document XXIII, No 4. The Presidency also warns that no motions for resolutions have been tabled on document XXIII, No 3, of the Anti-Mafia Commission, the examination of which is therefore intended to be concluded with today's debate. The motions for resolutions have been distributed. The Vice-Minister for the Interior, Senator Bubbico, has the floor, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u29	Madam President, I rise to express my appreciation and thanks to Parliament for the important contribution it has made, so that policies to combat criminal organisations can be made more efficient and so that the instruments, which have produced particularly significant results over the years, can be further strengthened, given that the contribution of both witnesses and justice workers has highlighted the effectiveness of those methods and how much the contribution of each has proved decisive in defeating criminal organisations. We are aware of the importance of confirming the anti-mafia commitment in all circumstances, because it is a battle that cannot be considered won once and for all, and we are perfectly aware of what and how many relationships have been established between corruptive phenomena and criminal actions organized and supported by criminal organizations. In this regard, it should be recalled that the procedures for combating criminal phenomena have also been extended to corruptive phenomena through the extension of the interdictive mechanisms for those who are guilty of those crimes or who act in a manner that announces illegal behaviors referable to those criminal cases. The contribution of the Anti-Mafia Commission will be carefully assessed and will be the subject of further investigation so that the Government's initiative can be further strengthened. For this reason, I would like to express my strong support for the motion for a resolution which the President has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u33	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, as far as the motions for resolutions which have been tabled and the subjects which concern you are concerned are concerned, I shall shortly develop my explanation of vote, but first I wanted to make a brief premise. Some things heard and said in this Chamber this morning, also with reference to the equivalence between the State and the Mafia, I believe are the worst service that institutions can give to the fight against organized crime and this phenomenon, which is a great gap for our country, which is the basis of the reasons for the lack of growth of our country, which is rooted in our history; so, in some way, we have a duty of solution that belongs to us, regardless of political belongings and who governs at a given moment in the history of our country. I think this would be the best way to respond to the observations that come from outside, to the representations that are often made of Italy (P38 and spaghetti in years away, other times the pizza connection) and to the amenities that represent our country (the country of the sun, the mandolins, terrorism once, today of corruption, organized crime and the mafia). Unfortunately there are pieces of truth in these representations, but we cannot tolerate the easy simplifications that someone in this House has also wanted to take up again. I now come to the first motion for a resolution which provides for a European commitment. There is no doubt that over the last twenty years there has been a widespread manifestation - not just a fact of the past few days - of the need to arrive at Community legislation in relation to the fight against mafias. This has partly happened, although - I remember - the Treaties do not give the European Union specific competence in criminal matters and in the fight against crime. However, great progress has been made, with the European arrest warrant, against illicit trafficking and on the most sensitive issues, which concern trafficking in people, toxic waste, the fight against ecocomaphy (it was one of the competences that were somehow recognised in the area of justice in the fight against crime). All this requires a higher globalization and a further transfer of sovereignty to combat drug trafficking, within which organized crime of Italian origin has a great importance. Let us therefore welcome the strong call of the Anti-Mafia Commission to the Italian Government and the European authorities to ensure that legislation that is more complete and complete than the fight against organised crime and mafias becomes not only the subject of parliamentary debate - I would remind you that the anti-Mafia Commission has recently been set up by the European Parliament - but it is also a real commitment to defining new rules within the Treaties, which give more coordination power, and not only, to the European authorities to be able to combat this phenomenon. The various legislation needs to be adapted to eliminate distortions, inconsistencies, contradictions and differences, including in the movement of goods, services, persons and capital, from which mafia crime can benefit most. This is certainly one of the highlights. The other point that I think is absolutely fundamental - and then I will briefly conclude on the issue of the code of ethics with regard to applications - is the protection of witnesses of justice. It is clear that we have legislation that still too often overlaps the concepts of co-worker of justice, repentant and witness of justice; from this point of view we must refine the distinction better, trying to achieve the same objective of efficiency and effectiveness so that the anti-mafia legislation in Italy (which is very strong and advanced) can better protect the people who are willing to help justice in the fight against all the mafias, without compromising minimum living conditions, even at the professional level. I myself ran into people like this. I am not talking about penitents or collaborators, but about victims of mafia crimes who have wanted to denounce and who have been subjected to protection programmes, but who have had to lead lives that are not worthy of being defined as such. It is therefore necessary to protect these people in a different way in order to make their will to contribute to the defeat of the Mafia phenomenon compatible with their need to ensure, at the same time, adequate living conditions for themselves and their families. The third reason for our vote concerns the call that Senator Mirabelli and others made and which is contained in the report, compared to the need for political ethical codes, which allow us to consider more closely and in a more careful way the candidacies and willingness of the people who directly or indirectly the parties contribute to legitimize, even within institutions and not just institutions. In this regard, I remember that our code of ethics, that of Civic Choice, went far beyond the laws on incandidability and what the norms of the Severino law and all the norms that have happened over the years and that preside to the attempt to make the institutions more transparent possible even in the people who go to represent them. I would just add that we must be careful not to give distorted messages: the institutions have the weapon of the law to strengthen their rules. Therefore, a greater specification, a better definition for certain crimes and a better clarification of what may be the reasons for the candidacy or non-candidateness of people will help (beside the ethical codes, which is right for each party to give itself in compliance with the law) to make institutions more transparent and, at the same time, to make better understand who political forces intend to entrust the responsibility to lead the institutions themselves after the elections. I therefore believe that the message from the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission must somehow be picked up by us in order to make legislation much more timely, effective and even efficient than it has sometimes been. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Civic Choice Group for Italy on the motions for resolutions tabled. [[Applause from Senators Zanda and Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u36	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I listened to the reply from Deputy Minister Bubbico and I took the impression that this morning Senator Giovanardi and I emulated the philosopher Diogene, who used to talk to statues to get used to not getting answers. Mr Vice-Minister, we have raised a number of issues which are the basis of the proper functioning of the law on repentance and also of the fight against organised crime, a fight which in a rule of law cannot ignore the respect for the legal protection and freedom of all those who, until the judgment passed in court, must be considered innocent. In fact, if we reverse the burden of proof, we run after a crime that is not codified and is per se smoky and malleable, such as the external competition, and we transform the right yearning of the State in repressing crime into a vexational condition against those who are often victims of repentance; repented that they are not - as stated in article 16-a of the relevant legislation - always third parties or victims of the situation, but are often beneficiaries of the law on repentance. This morning I reiterated that they save the assets, save themselves from jail and shelter, with a laute and congruent protection and bestowal of money, themselves and their family members. I would have expected a word about the two proposals made by me and Senator Giovanardi. Mr Giovanardi pointed out the bureaucratic cretinism, which very often condone the anti-mafia interdittives, so that having hired a boyfriend employee in a factory with someone who has something to do with a criminal organization leads in itself to the anti-mafia interdittive and to the failure of this factory if it has public contracts. I have noted that it is necessary to type out the crime of external competition and to entrust the management of repentance to third-party magistrates, who cannot be the prosecutors, who very often name their theories and their theorems on the assumption apodictic and never demonstrated of those who have interest in saying what interests the prosecutor. This does not mean not to fight the Mafia: it means not to turn the State into a camorrist who bends the rights and freedoms of citizens, who are crushed and whose lives are cut before the public. If the State does not provide for the death penalty because it cannot become a murderer, it cannot use means to combat crime that have nothing to do with citizens' rights and protection. You didn't give these answers, you didn't even mention them. So, if you want to continue in the panegyric of those who are most opposed to the Mafia, you want to put medals in your chest, because the best and most beautiful is what very often provides for libertic procedures, procedures that endanger the freedom, sovereignty and the lives of citizens. Then you are clowns, you are not people who want to fight crime: you are people who want to give the credit to enunciate this fight, but putting the State not above but below the citizen. Why not, in addition to a third management of the repentant, not predict that these gentlemen cannot repent on command after five, six or seven years? Because you fear just justice. And why do you allow someone in this House to call you back to the basic duties of a democratic state? It is certainly not the revision of the law on repentance, it is certainly not the typing of the crime of external contest that undermines the fight against the mob. After you've taken them, check the crimes and convicted, throw away the keys. Interdict and seize everything you can, but not before. It is easy to come here with a report of this kind where the same things are read in the reports of three, four, five, six, seven years ago. [[Senator Gatti's comments.]] If you want to take a step forward I propose the other side, because here of Torquemada and those... GATTI (PD). That's enough, though! D'ANNA (GAL). ...that they want to fight without any fear and without any reservation the Mafia we find at odds. In fact, it is simple not to have any contiguity or knowledge in Vercelli or in Vimercate: try to be the mayor of Casal di Principe, try to be the senator in Campania, where you have to be careful to stretch your hand with people who might somehow be related to people who belong to the organized underworld! If we do not distinguish the wheat from the hay, but we shoot machine guns, lowering the level of protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, it increases the degree of omerty. GIARRUSSO (M5S). But how long do we have to hear this? [[Senator Milo's lively comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u37	Senator Milo, you don't use that language in the Senate Chamber. It's not allowed. Let Senator D'Anna finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u38	You too, Senator Giarrusso. Senator D'Anna, speak to the presidency when you speak, rather than elsewhere. D'ANNA (GAL). This is proof of the intolerance of anti-mafia professionals. I think Giarrusso never did anything but talk against the mob, this cowardly vergin outrage. As long as the Jarrussians are there, then, the mafia and the Camorra will have words and many citizens will serve shame and ignominy... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u39	Senator Santangelo, have the surgery done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u40	MARTON (M5S). What a Senator Santangelo! Call him back! D'ANNA (GAL). In what capacity? What are you talking about? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u41	Senator D'Anna, please conclude your speech by avoiding provocative tones and showing your thoughts with sobriety.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u42	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I have been interrupted for free. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to continue. I'm trying to guarantee you the right to speak. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] D'ANNA (GAL). Please, can I talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can continue. You cannot expect absolute silence, as you know. You yourself often speak while others intervene. D'ANNA (GAL). I am talking about another state, where citizens see protection of rights and freedom, where no one is guilty without evidence and no one can be imprisoned without crime. This is my Nation model. If others pursue different ones, in name and on behalf of the iconoclastic fury or the way to well appear outside, do, I do not belong to this category. Mr. Deputy Minister, I urge you to consider both what Senator Giovanardi said this morning about the fatuity of many interdicts and what I propose to you, without question of contestation, about a revision of the law on repentants, with the custody of repentants to third-party magistrates, with the codification and typing of the crime of external contest. You see, there is no happiness without freedom, or freedom without courage. And it takes more courage to say these things than to howl in the choir of antimafia professionals. [[Applause from Senators Di Giacomo, Liuzzi and Milo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u45	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said in the general debate, we have before us three proposals for the Commission's anti-mafia report and a timely work which has seen a very strong interest in probably an inability to combat a serious, indeed very serious phenomenon. These are three reports which have led to the production of two motions for resolutions, on the third, which has not been tabled, and I will make a final remark by trying to understand why. The motion for a resolution No 1 talks about combating mafia crime with regard to relations with Europe as a whole and with non-European countries. There is a principle in this Europe in which we hope that an area of justice, freedom and security will be established within the European Union in order to ensure the free movement of persons and give all citizens rights and a high level of protection. This principle is based on Title V of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In recent years, some criminal phenomena have seen them reach transnational dimensions, and I am referring to drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and money laundering. These particularly serious criminal activities have exponentially developed large criminal organisations, which have had the capacity to penetrate the socio-economic fabric with highly specialised and professional operational models. These are activities that develop and move huge amounts of money, also used for self-financing and the purchase of weapons and sophisticated tools of first choice. As an alternative to traditional communications, the Internet is increasingly being used and the use of conversations with the Voip system, and this enables these subjects to have methodologies and approaches that escape the normal and traditional systems of contrast to the phenomenon. Therefore, some of the issues to be addressed are quite binding, first of all from the cognitive point of view: the phenomenon must be known and studied and therefore greater knowledge of the same through the exchange of information, common synergies, mutual trust of all States and operators; from the operational point of view, in the sense of a real coordination of investigative and judicial activities; from the strictly regulatory point of view, with an increasing sharing of the rules, reduction of the normative gaps between States and the overcoming of that bell-towerism, as I have also said in discussion, that each country reserves in the management of its own systems of criminal justice. The Italian Mafia organizations have extended their interests beyond borders, with operating bases throughout Europe, America, Oceania, Africa, and the Middle and Far East. This is a 'attitude' which they have had especially for the drug market. Given the interest of these organizations in reinvesting dirty money, recycling them mainly in the real estate, tourism and catering sector, following the activities of repression of money laundering and the confiscation of property, the activity is projected outside the borders of the country: the proof is in the fact that in the two years 2012-2013 were forwarded about 178 international letters, among which - they are rather heavy numbers - 28 towards Spain, 19 towards Germany and 10 towards Romania. The situation regarding action to combat crime in non-European areas is clearly more complex, because the political and judicial situations that exist in different parts of the world are often a brake on investigations. During the Italian Presidency of the European Union, which has now come to an end - in some respects I could say that nobody has noticed it - the Anti-Mafia Commission has been promoting documents which aim to keep the attention high and, more generally, to put Italy in a position to play an important role. As regards the report by the Anti-Mafia Commission on the system of protection of witnesses of justice, referred to in motion for resolution No 2, it must be said that there are 85 witnesses to justice in Italy this year, most of them aged between 26 and 60; 253 are the family members involved, including several children between zero and 18 years (more than a hundred). They are people who have suffered a crime or who have witnessed it, and then find the strength to report it. To date, there is not a law that deals carefully and specifically with these subjects, which someone rightly calls " rare pearls": to them the Decree-Law No 8 of 15 January 1991, born for the collaborators of justice, which should certainly be integrated and updated in order to serve precisely a category of subjects that at this time is not specifically protected. We must also clarify the issue of Law No 45 of 2001, which certainly marked a huge step forward, but it did not represent a significant innovation compared to those shortcomings I was talking about earlier. As someone said earlier, the path to the inclusion of witnesses of justice in the world of work should also be monitored and, from this point of view, some speeches that I heard earlier in this House about the capacity of the State to enable these people to resume normal life and be actually free should be perplexed. I would like to conclude by referring to the other report by the Anti-Mafia Commission on the formation of lists of applications at all levels. I can understand why a motion for a resolution has not been tabled on this subject, so we will only vote on the first two issues that I referred to: this is probably a very simple reason. Indeed, if this code of self-regulation had been adopted at the last electoral round, or if it had been converted into a law - as the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission himself, Mr Bindi, wanted, in order to follow up the Severino law a little bit - and if it had been binding on all those aspiring to one, there would have been a lot of problems filling the lists. I refer in particular to some regions of this country, where as many as 30 out of the 90 elected were subject to investigation. We are a strange country; we are a country in which - probably my colleague D'Anna is also right - we talk, talk and produce a lot of documents, to which we do not follow, even under the aspect of the ability to put them into action. John Falcone said well: the Mafia is a human phenomenon and, like all human phenomena, has a principle, an evolution of it and will therefore also have an end. Colleagues senators, I believe that the possibility that there is an end to this very bad page of this country passes also from the acts that we will be able to produce. Therefore, if these reports from the anti-Mafia Commission and the two motions for resolutions that have been followed can be the beginning and also the natural and just consequence of what has already been produced and done so far, the Group of the North Legacy announces the vote in favour of the two motions for resolutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u48	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I too am speaking briefly to say that my Group will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions, sharing the spirit of what we are discussing in this House today and also in the anti-Mafia Commission during all these months. We also believe that the anti-Mafia Commission is doing a very good job during this parliamentary term and we also hope that it will be able to find itself, after an initial period, in the completeness of its members and in its ability to express a completely positive political work. Of course we do and we vote in favour of what is proposed, because we think that precisely on these issues - the fight against the Mafia and what we are saying today - the elements of unity between the democratic forces must always prevail and a climate must prevail with force even unanimously in the Republican Parliament, also because we think that it would be a serious mistake if we lowered the threshold of attention. The democratic state has achieved so much success over the past few years. Certainly some of the initiatives that have been made have been positive, certainly the work carried out causes today and has caused visible results and a weakening of some criminal organizations. It would, however, be an obvious mistake to think that this could mean lowering the threshold of attention, and not realizing instead that there have been some changes in the universe of criminal organizations that make these motions for resolutions not just right and correct, but quite important legislative initiative on these issues. You see, we have said so many times over the past few months in this House: the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, the camorra, the great criminal organizations we are dealing with today are no longer the ones we have before. The mafia is no longer simply the coppola and the lupara: the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra are criminal organizations that also act deeply in the legal economy and that, not by chance, act with great force not only in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, but also in the Centre-North and other European countries. It is therefore also good to deal with Community legislation which can adequately implement a response. Affiliates to the thighs, now, in the North of the country often become friends of the bankers and entrepreneurs; they begin to attend their offices and to get in touch with them. They use the liquidity they have in very few to build their own initiative. They are mainly concerned with territorial development and procurement. They have changed, also for these reasons, the classic mechanisms of relations with politics and with the political world. We are no longer in the time when we were talking about politics looking for favor, but in the time when the criminal organization decides even at the table who represents it and who can better favour a contract or a regulatory plan. It is then clear that the changes that have taken place require this Parliament to use appropriate instruments, since they have been so profound that today's mafias are likely to be even more serious and serious than before. Of course I would not want, as someone did, to get to the absurdity of thinking that today the mafias must be fought because this transformation took place while they once expressed something moral. I would like this House to do justice to all the nonsense that, with a lot of lightness, a little ironically and stupidly, is sometimes told. In Portella della Ginestra there was nothing moral, while the bandits of Salvatore Giuliano shot the Sicilian peasants and killed them, on May 1, 1947. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]] There was nothing moral about it even when Placido Rizzotto was killed. On this it would be good, it would be right and it would be right, especially if you take so many votes, and especially from the younger generations, and you have great responsibility, that you never lower the threshold of what you can and cannot say, even if one thing is said simply to do a provocation and maybe you don't think about it. There was nothing moral before and there is nothing moral today: we have a duty to intervene together in a unified, strong and profound way on the things we are saying today, in an attempt to reconcile aspects that are not different from each other. There is a need to intervene on the ground of legislation and to have much less ambiguity in putting in place more effectiveness, even in the construction of new crimes. I say to the Government with great clarity that I find it profoundly wrong that the issue of the restoration of fake money in the budget and the introduction of the crime of self-cycling has not yet been put on the agenda. The Mafia is also fighting and defeating itself: certainly with the motions for resolutions that we are approving today, but also and above all by raising the level on the subject of corruption, imagining precisely instruments that can affect the foundations of the power of the criminal organization. It is not only the instruments of repression that have been used over the past few years, and it is also good to approve ethical codes, which of course must be done with great intelligence and caution, avoiding that an ethical code or a kind of prison legislation can cross the wide field of suspicion, because the democratic state is strong enough to imagine that it cannot have this kind of problem. However, it is very important to act on the ground of legislation. I believe that the things we are discussing today can be an important point: I repeat that the anti-Mafia Commission, in my opinion, has done a good job in the course of these months, but I believe that we need more courage from the political forces and I hope that the national government will say clearer words about this than it has said so far. The Mafia defeats itself also and above all so. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u51	ALBERTINI (NCD). Madam President, after listening to Mr Giovanardi's speech this morning with his colleagues - which also contains critical remarks, at least in the application of anti-mafia legislation, certainly not in the guidelines, concepts and values to which we refer - I declare our Group's favourable opinion on the two motions for resolutions tabled. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u54	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the Mafia requires one thing first of all, and it is called consistency. We cannot come here, in this House, elected with those who have lowered the penalty for the offence of voting for exchange and pretend to teach anti-mafia lessons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're unbelievable and ridiculous! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are proof that we can come to this Parliament without shaking the hands of the Camorists, the Mafiosos and the 'Andranghetists', [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because our friends, our supporters, have normal faces and names: they are not called Nick 'or American or Giggino 'a purpetta, like Senator D'Anna's friends. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u55	Senator Giarrusso, you have the right to speak without calling in question who has already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u56	[[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I have not said anything offensive: I am only defending this House from those who sully it with their presence alone. Here we have seen the arguments coming from the Camorists! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Giarrusso, please continue your speech, you are not allowed to say this in this House: you will say it elsewhere. Those who are in this House are rightfully in favour of it. You can make these evaluations in other locations. Please continue your speech. GIARRUSSO (M5S). What my assessment is, you can't tell me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am only reminding you of the rules of conduct in this House. I can't tell you and teach you anything. I'm just asking you to do your speech. [[Comments by Senators Marton and Santangelo.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Don't interrupt me, please. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We will vote on these documents and do so out of a sense of responsibility, but with the knowledge that they are paper! I am a card, because this House, in the test of facts, has failed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Here there is no will to face the mafia-political knot, and you have shown it in fact! You can make tons of these cards. Do you know what's in Sicily? I saw him a few years ago and he gave me the vault: a protocol of understanding titled to a great hero of our country, General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa, and you know what he signed, at the bottom, that document? Totò Cuffaro's. You can do all the documents you want, but it's consistency that counts in these things! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These papers don't scare anyone out of these classrooms. One thing, however, must be said about Mr D'Anna's speech. He's right: we have to finish the external contest in mob association. We have to say it clearly: the politician who colluses with the mafia does not commit external competition, it is mafia to all intents and purposes! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must say this once and for all, even to judges who do not have the courage to write it in their sentences: those politicians are the main support to the mob, without which the mob would not be in this country for almost two hundred years! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As long as this concept doesn't pass, there's no such thing as fighting the mob. The key to the fight against the mob is politics. But you refused to address this issue: when we proposed to punish the politician who made himself available to the mobsters, many rose! We remember the voices in these classrooms and also remind the citizens well out there. This is the knot that comes out every day: the knot of the politicians discovered at the complete disposal of the thighs! What do you need? A variant of the governor's plan? An administrative act? There's no problem: available. A contract? A TAV? A MOSE? For anything, I'm at your disposal. Let's see if the government makes the bridge over the Strait available. Let's see! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions, but we know very well that these documents will remain a dead letter and that the witnesses of justice will continue to have problems every day, because they are not treated for what they are and should be: heroes who serve their country! Instead, even in these cards they lived as a meddle, as people who give problems to the structures! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They are considered in this way, instead of being indicated for what they are: people who perform a civil service to their country, taking risks, burdens and having their lives turned upside down. And instead of honoring them as they should be, they are treated with fish in the face! They come to tell us, that we are the last beach for these people, as for the citizens for good of this country! (Loud [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u59	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Giarrusso for his heartfelt and passionate speech: I do not know how he reconciles with the "morality of the Mafia" that someone called back only a few days ago. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and NCD Groups.]] Presunta morality that is different from the absolute immorality that we, instead, assign to practices that have condemned (hope not forever) the territories of the martyred South of Italy to the backwardness and economic despair, on which then depend many other despairs. I am also concerned that, in these reports by the Anti-Mafia Commission, much of it has already been highlighted. I hope that we will continue to identify with ever greater precision the very dangerous infiltrations in the healthy part of the Italian economy, which operate through recycling or, even, through the acquisition of important companies in particular difficulties or even sectors of our economy, which today, by virtue of the crisis, are even more exposed to this serious risk. Hence our strong vote in favour of the motions for resolutions, which, as indicated in the texts, will certainly require further and even more extensive investigation, so that in our culture we can exercise vigilance and attention to these phenomena, so that they become an integral part of that formation in politics that we must be able to guarantee, with fairness and fairness, in the name of a justice which we invoke for us first of all, before others. That is why our vote will be in favour, without whether or not, but with regard only to the fight against organised crime in all its forms and not to the questioning of the cornerstones of the law that we intend to defend, without whether or not, but, from every possible detour, even in the name of good intentions. The best fight against the mob and any organized crime is not done, Senator Giarrusso, with Manzoni's cries. It is done with the facts of every day, with the commitment and consistency of all of us. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We do not fall into the trap that the fight against the mafia in words is more effective than the silent and daily fight against crime that our forces of order do first and foremost, that the judiciary, when engaged on front lines, that is done with the behaviour of each of us, every day, in civil action and in political action. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u62	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, the issue of the fight against mafias must qualify Parliament's life and require a qualitative leap from the whole political system. That is precisely the point of the reports that have been approved by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. The fight against mafias in our country is a matter for nothing. The mafias are still strong, they broaden their sphere of influence in the economy and politics and are present in vast territories. The whole country is called to this challenge. Colleagues, we must put behind us those subtle minimalist or even negationist readings of the presence of the mafias. It is a national challenge, it is a European challenge and together we must make a qualitative leap, no one excluded, ladies and gentlemen. In our country, and here in Parliament, there has been no lack of misleading reading. We still listen to horrifying judgments about 416- bis, about that crime of Mafia association that has become the architrave of the fight against the Mafia in Italy and in the world and that cost the lives of the best servants of the State. In the same way it is not taken for granted in our country that strange, ambiguous and devastating reading of a good ancient mafia and a questionable modern mafia, a mafia that had its own morale and a mafia that "seated" itself. The Mafia is an absolute evil: it was yesterday and it is today. It is an absolute evil always and always we must fight it, in all territories, in Sicily and in the North, in Europe and in any international context. Colleagues, this is a challenge that runs through the entire political system. The Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission is working with its traditional method of investigating some issues that are decisive to give maturity to our democracy and credibility to our institutions. An example for all is the so-called butterfly operation, that devastating method of sectors of our apparatuses to play a game that is not against the mafia, but becomes collusive with the mafia, the theme of the negotiations, the threats of Riina and everything that still characterizes the mafia and political relationship and mafia and economy. The work that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, just this week, Monday and Tuesday, has done in the Province of Messina, that Province that was considered babba and that instead revealed a perverse system, especially in its territory, with Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto in the lead. Rosario Cattafi's system expresses well the devastating complexity of the mafia, able not only to control the territory, but also to play a perverse role in the relationship with institutions and economy. Colleagues, alongside this work the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission is working to grasp the evolution of the presence of the mafias, that evolution that more and more directs the mafias in Italy and Europe to become directly business economy and not only collusion with the economy and with the enterprise, but directly economy, able therefore to intercept also the legal part of the financial, commercial and productive activities and to pollute them at the root. Equally worrying is the devastating evolution that is transforming the mafia from a collusive system with the policy to a system that directly makes politics and represents itself with its own men within the institutions, at all levels, colleagues. That's why, in the face of this evolution, relationships have been approved that capture this same evolution and try to transform the anti-mafia action from a day after anti-mafia, which always comes when the mafias have already consumed the thing, to an anti-mafia of the day before, that intercepts the mafias in time, to hit them at the root, the heart and the head. The report on the European Semester of Italy in Europe makes it very clear that mafias are globalised where anti-mafias are still local. Only a European anti-mafia legal area can allow us all to make a great, real, operational, concrete and design leap in quality. Then there is the other report that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission has approved on the subject of witnesses to justice. How trivial it is to confuse them with the collaborators again! The witnesses of justice are the honest and healthy part of our society that denounces the mafias and risks their lives for this choice and to this part of society Parliament must give a clear signal: they are our resource and they must remain so, even in the future! There must be no interruptions, bureaucracy, impediments, pavid or even annoying readings about this choice. It was right for the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission to dismiss an ethical code for the formation of electoral lists because, despite the fact that other Commission documents have been launched in the past, there has not yet been a qualitative leap. There are still too many ambiguous nominations and understatements. Politics has not yet chosen the fight against the Mafia as a major priority from the very candidates. That is why this document also calls into question the need to improve the fight against corruption. The antechamber is the main route used today by the mafias to become a business, economy and directly political. The report also calls for us to avoid that somewhat ambiguous and painful condition for the policy of raising levels when we are at the local institutional level and then lowering it on incandidability when we are at national and European level. The anti-Mafia Commission calls on us to find a homogeneity of action and always to be strict, at any institutional level we intervene. When there is a collusion, it must be struck, even when we are national and European parliamentarians, as well as when we are at local and regional level. Colleagues, reports also advance a working method. This method leads us to believe that the comparison in the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission cannot only be reduced to the approval of future-memory reports. Here is the first great novelty: a method that calls to responsibility Parliament urging it to make laws, to intervene, to compete with that season of the next day's anti-mafia, which must be overcome, in order to advance the anti-mafia of the day before, which is capable of becoming systemic and design. Colleagues, imagine in the face of challenges relating to the approval of rules on self-cycling, or a more stringent law on corruption, an increase in penalties for mafia crimes, including the tightening up of the hard prison and 41- bis - I hope that the penitentiaries of Pianosa and Asinara will finally be reopened - and again, the mandatory denunciation of economic operators who receive extortive requests, the possibility of improving the law on loose municipalities for mafia, the National Agency for Confiscated Goods and the single anti-mafia text (the Commission is ready to launch a new systematic text that helps us in this field also to make a qualitative leap). Colleagues, imagine if this method would turn into a systematic session of Parliament, as is the case at the budgetary sessions, in which the Commission Justice, the anti-Mafia Commission and the others of merit could work on this leap in regulatory quality, calling the House, at a given time, to do all together a work of measurement and design. Colleagues, let us therefore begin to adopt the resolutions. The Democratic Party has worked to ensure that there is also a unanimous consensus on a shared motion of Parliament, but be assured that we will not be content, because the qualitative leap will occur when we open a war against the mafias and we will not just contain them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u66	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Molinari, Giovanardi, Centinario, De Petris, Laniece, Di Biagio and Susta, on document XXIII, No 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Molinari, Giovanardi, Centinario, De Petris, Laniece, Susta and Di Biagio, on document XXIII, No 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1167 and 953. The rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the text, approved by the 8th Commission, which contains the delegation to the Government for the reform of the recreational boating code, arrives in this House. First of all, I would like to thank President Matteoli and his colleagues from all the groups for their work in the 8th Commission, which led to the rapid adoption of a widely agreed text. This is, for the purposes of relaunching the nautical sector, an absolutely important step, invoked by the market and the trade associations for decades now and, just to make understand the importance of the provision, before illustrating the articulated I think useful to provide a brief overview of the sector. The nautical industry is a pride of the Made in Italy and manufacturing industry, with poles of excellence in the North-West and North-East of the Country, in Tuscany, Emilia, Marche and Campania; it represents the fifth voice of the Italian export, with a turnover of 3,5 billion euros. The boats registered in Italy are about 105,000. 55 percent are below 10 meters in length; units above 18 meters are 3.6 percent of the total. According to data from sports federations, more than a million fans are interested. Starting from the data of the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports and of the CONI it is easy to understand how the vision of the nautical one like a phenomenon of luxury or pure elite is absolutely incorrect. But the fundamental question, in the current economic situation of the country, is that of labour. The nautical industry makes work about 18,000 direct employees, which become 80,000 with the induced. According to CENSIS, the nautical one and its supply chain guarantee the maximum multipliers of the income and the occupation regarding any other field of the marine cluster, included that crocieristico. According to the Report on the economy of the sea, the nautical one boasts an economic multiplier of 4,5 and occupation of 6,5 against an average of the cluster respective of 2,5 and 1,8. Also for CENSIS, every 3.8 boats generate a job in tourist activities and services. According to the National Nautical Observatory, the average cost of the porter on the territory is about double that of the tourist city, purified from the cost of the accommodation. Also according to the Observatory, then, a tourist marina generates altogether 90 places of work, of which 12 directly to the dependencies of the port, 55 occupied in activities inserted in the harbour area and 23 occupied in the territory. All these indicators and data testify that the Italian nautical is not only a patrimony of the national culture, but a pride of the manufacturing industry, an emblem of the made in Italy and above all an economic and occupational resource for our Country. It is one of those few sectors that see us as undisputed leaders in the world and on which we must therefore aim to get the country out of the crisis. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, you should lower the level of the buzz, because Senator Ranucci - as well as those who will intervene after him - has a real difficulty in surpassing it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u70	I therefore ask you, if you are to speak, to leave the Chamber. RANUCCI, rapporteur. Thank you. In 2009 the nautical industry was still worth approximately 6.5 billion euros, while the induced deriving from the nautical tourism and the services amounted to approximately 4.5 billion euros. Today they count about 2.5 billion each. The most serious price was paid by the employees, with 39,000 jobs overall lost. 18.03 (Ranucci follow). The global crisis has hit this sector hard all over the world, but already at the end of 2010 American companies showed signs of recovery, followed by those of Northern Europe at the end of 2011. In our country this did not happen: at the end of 2011 the tourist tax on the national maritime waters has precipitated the sector. The 2012 data are as follows: for the industry, -85 percent of production; for the nautical tourism, -26 percent of mooring contracts, -34 percent of moorings in transit, -39 percent of revenues, -21 percent of the sector's turnover. The evolution of the luxury segment - that is, the one that has least suffered from the impact of the crisis - is an example: in 2013 Italy, still absolute world leader, has maintained 39 percent of the global orders, but has lost a market share of 14 percent. I believe that the delegation we are giving to the Government is important, and I would like to sum up a few points, which are very important for Parliament's work. Among other things, I would like to stress that it is a delegation to the Government that comes from an entirely parliamentary activity. First of all, I recall that paragraph 2 introduces elements of rationalization and simplification in some aspects of the regulations of the field and in the relative administrative requirements, with reference to navigation, to the pleasure units, to the temporary navigation of the units in particular situations, to the disposal of the flag and to the regulation of the lease of the boats. In particular, point (f) provides for the availability of a reasonable number of approaches dedicated to units in transit, with particular regard - here we wanted to insert a very important point - to those to be reserved for disabled people. Point (g) provides for the timely regulation of equipped mooring camps. The letter h) assigns to the minor nautical all those structures that have characteristics that can be used for the dry shelter. The letter r) intervenes on a topic of great interest for the field of the nautical from pleasure, the marina resorts. In the field of controls for the safety of navigation, on the one hand, action is taken to rationalise the activities, the planning and coordination of which are entrusted to the Corps of the captains of port-coastal Guardia, also in order to avoid duplication and repeated investigations at the expense of the same units, and, on the other hand, establishing the principle of the full adaptation of the internal order to the directive of the European Community, in the matter of control activities by the State. There is also provision for the revision and modernisation of the rules on recreational craft and their equipment. Point (s) provides - we believe that this point is also very important - the inclusion of sea culture and maritime education in school education programmes, in compliance with the Constitution and with the current rules and with invariance of expenditure, as well as the establishment of the Sea Day in schools. Points (v) to (aa) first of all provide for a review of the sanctions for violations related to the use of a recreational unit, increasing by a third the minimum and maximum edittal limit and also providing for the tightening of the sanctions for the excess of speed and, in general, for all those conducts that can put at risk the safety and the life of the people, especially if committed driving in a state of drunkenness or under the effect of drugs, being able to arrive also to the withdrawal of the licence and the seizure of the recreational unit. Point bb also provides for adaptation to Directive 2013/53/EU on recreational craft and watercraft. The successive paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 govern the enactment of legislative decrees which are adopted in agreement with the unified State-Regions Conference. I conclude my report by reminding you that today, facing the revision of the navigation code, we are making a very important maneuver for our country. We are always talking about jobs and, as can be seen from the data I have reported, the nautical sector produces jobs and, therefore, can represent a real flywheel. I remember that we have 8,000 kilometers of coastline, a measure equal to the distance that separates Rome from Beijing. I think it's important to understand that the sea is not just a place to go for fun, where we can spend our holidays and feel good. The sea is the economy of our country, it is a 360 degree economy. I often think, a little provocatively, that a Ministry should be established within the Italian Government, a reference for the economy of the sea that is not limited to nautical alone, but reappears navigation, beaches, fishing. Our country has an extraordinary opportunity and I think that with the revision of the code of the nautical one we can really start to grasp it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u71	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the draft law delegates to the Government for the revision of the nautical code is a measure that the sector has been waiting for many years and that certainly can act as a stimulus for both the sector and the entire induced one. In fact, they represent an excellence of our production system that in recent months is trying hard to restart. After six years of decisive decline, which reached -60 percent of turnover, in fact, from January to July 2014 it was possible to record an encouraging +5 percent compared to the previous season. UCINA's study office estimates for 2014 an increase of +2 to +7 per cent of total turnover. Italy, therefore, remains the undisputed leader in the production of super yachts with more than 37 percent of world orders. The first three yards in the ranking are Italian (Azimut, Benetti Group, Sanlorenzo and Ferretti Group), representing alone 20 percent of the world's orders. There are about 18.000 direct employees in the Italian nautical industry with a total variation between 2012 and 2013 unfortunately negative and equal to -5 percent. On the other hand, the number of employees is about 80,000, considering the induced and nautical tourism. The bill delegates goes in the direction of simplification and reorder of the norms of the code of the nautical one and, in part, contributes to being from stimulus for the internal market of the field. In particular, the draft delegation law accepted important amendments. With the dry storage it is expected to build a daily dry shelter of small boats, already practiced for over 30 years in the United States and for a long time in neighboring France with various utilities and advantages. Dry mooring is cheaper both because it does not require water spaces, except those limited to the operations of awing and launching, and because it reduces the maintenance of hulls. This solution therefore allows to make more economical the access to the nautical one from a wider public, not to implement ulterior coastal harbour structures, to assign a greater portion of the existing water mirrors to the large units that generate a significant economic and occupational relapse on the territories, to reuse and to put to income disused state structures. To this end, the amendment proposes that in the context of the revisiting of the so-called devolution the transfer to the Regions of the podestà on the marine state property coincides with a policy of address of use for dry storage of the state property structures, piers, arenili and squares already identified by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 December 1995. Another important issue removed from the measure is that relating to the figure of the maritime mediator, introduced into our legal system by a law of 1968. This rule provided in general that for the professional exercise of mediation in the contracts of construction, of sale, of lease, of chartering of ships and in the contracts of marine transport of things the registration in the role of marine mediators was required. The rule therefore arises for the merchant sector, but ends up applying equally to the pleasure. A practice that has had very serious consequences for the sector. It has happened, in fact, that authorized dealers of nautical yards that by their nature are agents, representatives of commerce, if in the sale of a new pleasure unit had proceeded to the withdrawal of other unit, have been subjected to investigation of the Guard of finance for the absence of the title of merchant marine mediator. In Liguria alone this has brought about fifty companies before the prosecutor of the Republic, penalising this economic activity. In addition to these measures, it is very important that the Government equates marina resorts with accommodation facilities in the open air. An important step that allows to apply VAT reduced to 10% for the structures organized for the stopover and the overnight stay of tourists inside their units at the mooring, a rate that has always been in force for all other segments of tourism. A significant result for the enhancement of nautical tourism. However, the rule, which has not yet entered into force, is limited to 2014. In the accompanying report to the decree unlocks Italy we read that the resources to make it stable would have been identified in the law of stability. There is no mention of this in the text approved by the Government. We will therefore work to extend it to the following years. Of course, there is still a great deal to be done in this area. Unfortunately, in recent years it has not been valued as it deserved. For example, the question of the unification of nautical employment contracts, which today operates with five different types, remains open. On this subject, I hope that a solution can also be found in the jobs act with a measure that would simplify many procedures, facilitating workers and employers in the sector. I shall conclude, Mr President. Foreign acquisitions, mobility, Cassa Integrazione and closures of activities have characterized the nautical from diporto and the shipbuilding in Italy. However, Italy remains the world's first mega-yacht manufacturer, the boats above 24 meters, and in general the second after the US. A primacy that has its roots in a field of creativity, genius and great sacrifice. The Italian entrepreneurs of this fascinating sector have managed to put together so many knowledge with intelligence, transforming them into the key of a recognized success all over the world. Today we export 93 percent of the production, we are among the first countries of the world to produce components for the pleasure, which also makes the boats built by our international competitors at the forefront. For this reason, politics has the duty to try to support an area that, still today, despite the crisis, is the section - as Senator Ranucci recalled - that demonstrates the highest ability to generate wealth and employment within the marine cluster and represents a valid strategic instrument for the economic and social development of our Country. The challenge, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is also to recognise the primacy of this sector. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u73	Colleagues, I warn you that in tomorrow's afternoon session, for the examination of the Government's report on the DEF Update Note, each Group will have a total time of 15 minutes for the general discussion and explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagnoncelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u75	Mr President, the draft law before us goes in the direction of a rewriting of the rules on recreational boating. Some norms that concern the field of the nautical one are already contained in the so-called decree unblocks Italy (in particular, in Article 32, it is the so-called marine resorts). Probably, taking note of the need to exercise a delegation, it would have taken a shorter time for the issuing of delegated decrees. The government has taken two years, which seems objectively rather excessive. The field of the nautical one has already known organic participations of regulation, first in 1971, with a law that has introduced in our system the concept of modern nautical one, therefore in 2003, with a substantial rewriting of that norm, in order to arrive to the code of the nautical one from diporto of 2005, then novel in 2011 and minor participations in 2012 and 2013. Europe is now asking us to adapt to the EU's regulatory forecasts. This is certainly an area that could give a great boost to the country's growth if we consider, for example, an elemental fact: we are the country of the Republics of the sea, but we possess half of the berths of neighbouring France, which has a coastal extension of much less than Italy. Not only France, but now all the coastal countries that gravitate on the Mediterranean compete with us, starting with the small Croatia, which is out of port here. The wrong choices of the left governments have always considered the nautical a sector from rich, first increasing every type of tax on the activities from pleasure, then including the owners of boats among the suspected evaders to control. The Monti Government invented the parking tax, then transformed into a possession tax after having understood that the Italian yachts took off to other ports. This is how the nautical sector has entered into crisis and struggles to rise again, with the loss of tens of thousands of jobs. We just approved the jobs act. However, the peculiarity of the nautical sector must also be assessed, in which the workers operate under the most disparate contracts, from that of the metal mechanics to the chemical-plastic one. This is not the place, but it must be pointed out that the sector needs contractual uniformity which must also take into account the seasonality of the product and which has more or less intense working periods. Billions of euros of potential gross domestic product, which has not developed in recent years, on the contrary, has decreased by about half in the last five years. The nautical one is an economic field around which turns the construction, the commerce, the maintenance, the lease and the chartering of boats, the construction and the modernization of ports and tourist arrivals, the tourism, the receptive activity in the ports and the boats, all the activities tied to the nautical sports and all the services connected to the activities cited. Here, the pleasure boating is made of many objective realities, which go beyond the investigations and the bureaucracy, which are also necessary, if they are not invasive and not aimed at spectacular events. It is an economic sector that could boost the growth of gross domestic product by attracting massive resources, especially from abroad. It is right therefore that the Government rewrites the rules because, from 2008 to 2013, the field of the nautical one has seen altogether reduced the turnover from 6,2 to 3,2 billion. Much of the loss concerns the small boating and, in particular, the pleasure boating. The turnover of the row tied to the nautical one from diporto inside of the small nautical one represented at least 40 percent and now it is coming down little above 30 percent. We are talking about 15,000 jobs, which are decreasing every year, largely located in micro-enterprises with less than five employees. A downward trend, that of the turnover of the sector, far greater than that that that has recorded the decrease of the national GDP. The recreational nautical sector, more than any other, needs a reduction of the compliances and a reduction of the weight of the tax. We therefore hope that the delegation under consideration will lead to a serious work of deregulation and simplification of the legislation of the sector and to a lightening of the rules, controls and the consequent tax burden. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u76	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome the initiative of the Government and Mr Ranucci and the other signatories for this bill which addresses the problems of a specific segment of the Italian marine industry in an innovative and useful way. I share the views that have already been expressed and that converge on the emphasis that there is too little and sometimes even inappropriate attention to the problems of the sea economy. We do this this evening with a measure that focuses on a section of those general problems, doing so - I repeat - in an innovative and useful way. We are talking about recreational boating, which contributes in an important way to the country's gross domestic product, which is one of the great reasons for tourist attraction and contributes in terms of employment in a non-secondary way. In fact, we must remember that every berth carries, in itself, a non-secondary occupational load. In recent years - it has already been noted, but I would also like to reiterate this - legislative operations have been carried out, on some occasions, useful for the sector. I am referring, for example, to a standardization of a few years ago which, through leasing operations, has greatly facilitated shipbuilding which was referred to a few minutes ago by my colleague, Mr Fabbri, and which I too would like to stress as one of the strengths of the national manufacturing industry. However, in more recent times the legislative intervention has been characterized by harmful effects: let's remember all those of 2011 and 2012 that have hit with inappropriate and self-harmful tax measures the sector, forgetting that if you hit with unjust taxation a manufacturing sector characterized by a material rooting in the territory (I think of the sheds and factories), you can maybe imagine to react with a relocation, but, given the physical characteristics of the investment, it is not always possible, often it is difficult and, in any case, it takes time. In the case of the taxation of boats, since the boats are not rooted, it is enough to put the forward in the direction of a foreign landing place and solve the problem, as happened and as has been rightly mentioned here. In the end, they benefited from the berths of neighbouring Croatia, Greece, Corsica or the French Riviera, with a significant penalty of our capacity for tourism and a negative consequence on gross domestic product and also on employment. I believe that the measure that we are debating today and we are going to dismiss wants to be, in the first place, an emphasize of the necessity that Italy assures a sufficient cure to own marineria and, in this case, specifically, to the marine economy that derives from the nautical one from diporto. The delegation that we are going to vote on is useful with regard to the measures that concern simplification, a new and modern regulation of the contracts of regulation of the boats, the control of the navigation and, finally, all the complex but not secondary matter of the revision of the titles to command a pleasure boat, or the question of the sanctions. They're all good things. I would like to introduce an element of dissent, as I have already done in the Commission, with regard to a measure which I believe should have been avoided (and, while I realise that it is not the most important one, I am also talking about it): this is the measure concerning the establishment of the school day for the culture of the sea and navigation. When we talk about school - and I am addressing the Government in recommending this - I think we would do well to focus on the need for it to focus primarily on learning writing, reading and counting, to say it in a rather dozenly way. I want to refer, in a little more appropriate terms, to the need not to go too far in the subjects of teaching and learning, because if everyone, for any of the many subjects on which we can get excited, thinks of setting up a particular day to dedicate to that topic in the school, we run the risk - as I said a moment ago - of inappropriate ramblings. However, in a very sectoral but also very important measure, if this is the only drawback, I believe that it can be deserving of praise and satisfaction, and I address my colleague, Mr Ranucci, as well as the representative of the Government present here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u78	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u79	Mr President, senators and senators, how can we fail to recognize ourselves in the words of Charles Baudelaire: Free man, will you always love the sea, even more in our country, with its more than 8,000 kilometers of extraordinary coast (how fragile, for the ruins to which we have subjected for almost a century)? For this reason, the pleasure boat not only enthusiasts us, but we recognize a fundamental role in the marine economy of our Country, because it can represent a lever to protect an absolute good for Italy, inverting certain policies of bad consumption and aggression. This is an area that has given our system a great deal in terms of resources and quality employment, also in relation to the important induced. That the nautical one constitutes an excellence of our Country demonstrates it the data. In 2013, almost a third of the worldwide demand for pleasure boats was commissioned from Italian shipyards. In this sector, albeit halved from 2009 to 2012, Italy is still the number one product and the product produced here, from a qualitative point of view, remains also international leader. We know that some 19,000 people work directly in the sector, with a turnover of about 2.5 billion, yet it has been going through a worrying crisis for a long time. According to data from the National Nautical Observatory, a collapse of the national market has occurred since 2008. In 2012, 932 new units were registered, compared to 4,500 in 2008. According to the Observatory, with the approval of the parking tax, the industry recorded 85% less production for the national market, while exports returned to pre-crisis levels. The nautical tourism has recorded a total decrease of 26 percent of the contracts of annual mooring, a decrease of 34 percent of the moorings in transit, a decrease of 39 percent of the revenues from port to public management, a decrease of 56 percent in the tourist expenditure of the diportisti on the territory and a decrease of 21 percent of the turnover for the field charter. To complete the picture, there was the 26 percent escape of the recreational fleet. At the end of 2012, revenue from the tax was €24.5 million compared to €150 million foreseen by the executive. It is clear that the sector is facing the heavy effects of the recession that has also affected the industry and nautical tourism chain, especially as a result of a significant decline in consumption by users with medium-small boats. This situation, however, depends not only on the effects of the general recession on production and consumption, but also on delays and infrastructure deficiencies, as well as on choices for the tax-disputable sector and often contradictory administrative procedures. The nautical from diporto has been object, in the XIV legislature, of a reform born also from the acknowledgment of the nautical diporto as strategic productive field for the Italian economic system and finalized to favor the increment of the nautical tourism. Started by law no. 172 of 2003, which has innovated the discipline giving impulse to the development of the nautical tourism in Italy, the reform has been completed by the code of the nautical from diporto, adopted with legislative decree n. 171 of 2005, that it has realized the long-awaited text only in matter of navigation from diporto. Eight years after the entry into force of the Code, the Council of Ministers has issued a bill that delegates the Government for its revision, after the so-called decree of the doing, that it had already fixed, albeit in insufficient way, measures for the relaunch of the nautical diporto: the tax of possession with the exemption for the boats up to 14 meters, the half-life for those from 14 to 20 meters and the widening of the cases for the tax benefits of the occasional chartering has been modified. the delegation for the revision of the code of the nautical one has today the intent to give ulterior stimulus to the resumption of the productive field, to the simplification, the effectiveness and the protection of the safety of the nautical one and the users of the sea, for an organic revision of a supply chain that boasts beyond 45 types of economic specialization, that go from the activities of production, to refitting, to the various complementary services connected to the portualità and the nautical tourism, for a total induced evaluable in no less than 100.000 employed. It is a chain that unfortunately has been living for some years now a very serious crisis of domestic demand, which still does not mention ending. With this in mind, the code must have the dual function of merging the numerous and fragmented existing provisions and of simplifying procedures and times. It is still possible to intervene in terms of the administrative arrangements for recreational craft, the safety of navigation and the prevention of accidents near the coast, as well as in terms of sanctions. However, it is quite clear that first of all it is necessary to support the development of the sector, combining it with measures of territorial and occupational redevelopment. It is in fact on this binomial territory-work that the challenge of relaunching the sector is played, which also requires an open and constructive confrontation, especially from the political-economic as well as institutional and government point of view. In fact, it is urgent to translate the joint commitment of all the institutional actors and the sector into a table of analysis and concrete proposals for the revival of the industry and the nautical tourism, because "resolvamento" means first of all reorganization and development, which can absolutely not ignore the constructive concern for the serious occupational suffering of the sector and concrete interventions on the coastal environmental condition, in the perspective of a targeted action aimed also at countering the hydrogeological disruption produced by decades of tax harassment and inexorable environmental decay. The commitment to reverse this trend meets our sensitivity as legislators, where clear signs are taken and for this reason can be shared of respect for the beauty of landscape-environmental goods and of will to experience a different use of the territory, which places the redevelopment as conditio sine qua non to aim for the industrial revival of a fundamental resource for the future of our country. It is according to these premises that we must articulate the reform according to aims of coordination, harmonization and above all simplification of the legislation on the registration of the recreational units; as well as of the regime of the units for commercial use (rental, nautical school) and of the procedures for the disposal of flag. For example, because of the bureaucratic delays, there are serious difficulties in selling used Italian boats abroad. Moreover, it is necessary to simplify the procedures for renting vessels, by harmonising the different orders of the maritime authorities, as well as the professional titles of the sector (e.g. those for conducting chartered vessels), also to protect safety measures for the transport of passengers and goods, and in particular to facilitate access to the labour market. It is also desirable to put an end to the practice of duplication of checks and controls of units, by reducing bureaucratic procedures and by ensuring that procedures are as uniform as possible. At the same time, security measures must be strengthened - and the resulting sanctions (i.e. the seriousness levels) - necessary to prevent all those violations which may cause maritime accidents, in particular under coast. The adaptation of the code to the technical and technological evolution of the sector - to seek a harmony of the administration with the real country and recover part of the lost time - is only a step. Without the confrontation with all the subjects and the operators of the field, without the courage to give back momentum to the development and the market of the job, without the putting in net of the harbour system in an optical of requalification of the common good Mediterranean, without the potenziamento and the reuse of the disused harbour areas, including the fluvial waters, without the valorization of the nautical tourism, without a clear political differentiation between internationalization of the field and the relocation of the productive resources, the reform of the code risks to be only a beautiful empty frame. The sea, the Mare nostrum, is the beating heart of our economy and our country. This is precisely the meaning and the main value that I attach to this provision. Beyond the positive significance of the method, based, for once at least, on the comparison on the substance: this time the mill of trust has not dropped; instead there has been a mutual listening, which has allowed to correct and - I hope - improve the article, which must continue today and in the continuation of the parliamentary process. As with simplification, we must do more, especially to small operators in the sector. In conclusion, let us put the country in a position to overcome the challenge of quality and excellence, which is decisive for our country. It's the only challenge we can and must win. This is won by playing all the keys: safeguarding the territory from consumption and interventions to fight clearly the hydrogeological failure first, but not only, of our coasts, to restart the tourism industry, decisive for our country. That together with the archaeological, artistic and landscape heritage, the country can take advantage of the uniqueness of its wonderful continental coasts, the islands of Sicily and Sardinia and the smaller ones (minor only by surface). Together, all these conditions represent a heritage that has no equal in the world and that we must protect, cure and improve, preventing someone from destroying it, consuming it, compromising it forever. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u80	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Ranucci for his report on the merger of these two draft laws (No 1167 and No 953), which concern the reform of the recreational boating code. The objective of the normative intervention is that to harmonize the total discipline on the nautical one from diporto that, I remind to those who follow us from home, regards those boats that have a length of few meters (not certainly superior to 24 meters) and that have an aim of sporting character, recreational and without commercial ends: the noun "diporto" means exactly recreation, fun. This bill empowers the Government to redesign legislation as a whole. Probably better could be done, but it's already a good step forward. It is now consolidated the consideration of the discipline of the nautical diporto as a specialised field of the law of navigation. The aim is to include the punctual interventions implemented after the entry into force of the code of the nautical until today. In this direction, the delegated measures are also called upon to offer solutions for the simplification of bureaucratic procedures which, however, allow to combine an adequate examination of the subjective, structural and documentary requirements, united by being functional to measures to safeguard the safety of the nautical means and the occupants, as well as the safety of the surrounding navigation and the marine and coastal environment. The nautical from diporto has been object, in the XIV legislature, of a wide reform, also known for the acknowledgment of the nautical diporto as strategic productive field for the Italian economic system, finalized to favor the increment of the nautical tourism. The reform initiated by Law No 172 of 2003 had already given considerable impetus to the development of nautical tourism in Italy. It has been, among other things, then completed with the code of the nautical from diporto, adopted with legislative decree n. 171 of 2005. All those who spoke before me also addressed the issue of tourism and talked about economy and induced it. The bill should, indeed, be an opportunity to reorder the laws governing the sector. In fact, there is an absolute need for a simplification of the rules and regulations in order to allow the activities of the industry and the whole sector to relaunch and economic development. Nautical tourism has a value in economic and employment terms, being among the activities that are of great importance in terms of employment and gross domestic product of our country. Speaking of pleasure boating you cannot, in fact, regardless of the nautical tourism, connected to it in such a narrow way as to be confused almost with it. In fact, there is such an interconnection in the activities and work between the two things that are sometimes confused. From the boat comes all the induced linked to the tourism of the sea, induced that it includes activities that remain all inseparable to the sea and are therefore to consider to all effects integral part of the activity of the marine enterprise. But the life cycle of the production and management of a pleasure boat gives impulse to a system of relations of character also intersectoral with enterprises of sectors that are not traditionally considered in the within of the nautical section from diporto. We are talking, for example, about specializations related to furniture, in which I believe that Italy is a world teacher. The sector, however, is going through - as is well known - a phase of crisis, whose final and overall scope is difficult to predict, as the transformation is still in progress. In a short-term perspective, the situation appears to be very serious. Most of the yards are completing the orders acquired in the past years, while the flow of orders seems to have slowed dramatically. Who in particular suffers the negative effects are mainly the enterprises of the subcontractings, perhaps the more specialized ones just from the aspect of the internal furnishings and the mechanics tied to the motors. An important factor to evaluate is the used park, which is unsold. The other phenomenon that regards the field of the nautical one is that of the services for the portualità, that is all those activities connected with the use of the boats that, also in this case, as induced create several places of job. The French nautical system, for example, has long been oriented towards this direction: the strategy of offering more services for those who have a boat rather than producing new boats. Mr President, I do not know whether that is the solution. I don't think so. I believe that the capabilities we have of design and production of boats, even large ones, are very important for this country. So let's go ahead and let's forget what the French do, which, by the way, from the aspect of the ability to beat us on the berths, having I do not say half but almost of the coastal development, are masters. The turnover in this sector is slowing down. The turnover also in 2013, as in previous years, starting from 2009, shows uncomfortable data. The estimates developed by the National Union of nautical and related industries (UCINA), the nautical Confindustria, give a strong demonstration of this. The global turnover of the sector in 2013 is between 2.4 and 2.3 billion, with a change, compared to 2012 of -4 percent in the first hypothesis and -8 percent in the second. Compared to 2008, where there was a very high point of production and turnover (production came as a turnover of more than 6.2 billion), the estimates of the change amount to -61 and -63 percent as regards the prospects for 2013. With regard to the field of superyachts, in which Italy maintains, despite everything, a position of world leadership, we hold almost 40% of the world's orders, given by joining Italian companies that represent in export one of the most important markets. This is the story and this is the hope we have with regard to the issues related to this delegation law. Now let's start with the issues a little more compelling. Some say that there is a crisis and, therefore, they sell less boats and I say that no one can say otherwise. We have 14-15 per cent unemployment and 45 per cent youth unemployment (and those related to recreational nauticalism are sectors where specializations could put children in a position to find a decent employment). Public accounts are overdosed with less signs. The public debt is unstoppable. There are many companies that run away abroad, but there are others that do not even have the strength to close. They are hard tested by the well-known story of the TFR in paycheck (here too we will probably see some beautiful ones). Then there is a series of workers who have been humiliated by the Fornero law. If we also put ourselves on the issues of the wicked Russian embargo, we see that we are Tafazzi who really have made their own resources more important than the unhonorable objects to be massacred. Then on the sector, in addition to this incredible scenery, there is to say that some very wrong choices of the Monti Government have also come down: someone said it before, but did not have the courage to make the father's name of these bad choices. The terror that has provoked the solo announce in 2011 an appropriation fee for yachts in the national ports has made everyone escape to other foreign ports. For example, the increase in the turnover of Corsica and Croatia is proof of this. This announcement lasted six months, but it was enough for the Italian and foreign shipowners to take the boats away from our ports of call and then it was worth little the subsequent measures to put a piece in it: the damage, President, was already done and never recompose because no one trusts anymore. One doesn't buy or sell a boat every day. There was an inability of the government to evaluate the cow to milk because then the cow died and the milk was also finished. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, a similar mistake was made for large cars: they tried to put in condition the owners to pay money; then it went differently because the owners of large cars put them on the bisarchs and sent them abroad and there was no take. Moreover, there was the "sympathetic" jump tied to the horse: having a buzzard in the barn was for the 740 model like having a Varenne in the barn, so in that case some even abandoned the horses for the countryside because they were considered, to all intents and purposes, a luxury property. Well, Mr President, if in a country with a coastal development of about 8,000 kilometers we have half of the berths of France, which also has a much lower coastal development, and if 2012 and 2013, the years to which we refer in the immediate, have been the horrible years for the nautical from diporto, it is certainly not the case to play the song of Orietta Berti "Since the boat goes that remains in the museum of the national songs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u82	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u83	Mr President, we are talking about a bill of delegation. Once again, the Government writes a bill that delegates itself to make, say, a law. The sector we are talking about is undoubtedly important, in some ways fundamental, because - as has already been said - our country has 7,450 kilometers of coast, a very important development. Therefore, the recreational nautical sector has a strong impact on the economy of the country and on what we want for a country that has all these coasts and (as for all the beauty of Italy) should develop this sector strongly. From an exquisitely technical point of view, however, once again we are talking about a bill of delegation. The government writes it, therefore, "it sings it and if it plays it, it would be said. This has often happened in this parliamentary term: we often see this phenomenon in which the legislator, that is Parliament, is essentially deprived of its role, which is absorbed by the government. It is a practice that we always continue to condemn, because we want to take back our role, we want the Government to carry out our will; and this the Government must understand. However, the choice of the delegation law is probably taken to give a condolence to the majority that supports the Government: the government gives the contentment of the delegation law, because, it is true that it writes it alone, but so it gives a semblance of function to this Parliament. This, as I have already said, is an absolutely unacceptable practice. Entering into detail, the bill arrived in the Senate was, as usual, a nice broad delegation, in which clear stakes were not placed. It was the usual way of doing things, with which the government keeps its hands free to do what it wants. But it must be said that we have done an important job in the Commission: it has undoubtedly tightened a little, it has been better specified what needs to be done. This was a good work done in the Commission by all the Groups. We have also proposed other amendments, which we will soon be discussing in this House and we hope that the majority of the Government - which is of interest to us to a certain extent - will accept them, at least some of them, the most important. Undoubtedly, the nautical sector has been in crisis for a long time, suffers a strong slowdown and we must try to move it forward. Undoubtedly there is also the problem of how the Italian portualità is organized, historically very based on the merchant; we should perhaps begin to think that some merchant ports can be more usefully dedicated to the nautical one from diporto. Obviously we must not neglect the mercantile field, that it is absolutely fundamental, but there are many ports that could usefully give more space to the activities of the nautical one from diporto. I look forward to seeing how we are going to vote on the amendments. This is an important area that deserves the attention of all of us. We have done a good job in the Commission and now we see what we will be able to do more in the course of the debate on the amendments in this House. We will see, then, how it goes to decide what to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u84	He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Stefano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u85	Mr President, in the 8th Commission, we have worked very hard on the text of the bill to delegate to the Government for the reform of the recreational boating code. In this work - and I address my colleague Mr Cioffi - I believe that there have been all the possibilities for making improvements to the text, which have been mentioned on several occasions. I believe that this delegation to the Government puts us in a position to finally give framework legislation to a very important and sensitive sector, also from an economic point of view. In paragraph 1 of Article 1 the Government is delegated to regulate some subjects: administrative regime and navigation of the pleasure units, including the ships referred to in article 3 of the law 8 July 2003, n. 172, that is the ships destined exclusively to the chartering for tourist purposes with hull length beyond 24 meters and in any case of tonnage not exceeding 1.000 tons; activity of control in matter of safety of navigation from pleasure and prevention of accidents near the coast, revision of the penalties in relation to the gravity of the violations and the prejudice to the public interests and the nature of the danger deriving from the illicit conducts; update of the psycho-physical requirements necessary for the attainment of the nautical licence (the topic on which has been much debated and that is waiting for a solution now long ago); procedures for the approval and the installation of systems of supply with liquefied petroleum gas (GPL), methane and electric, on units from diport and relative propulsion engines (the theme that moreover the parent Cioffi has repeatedly resumed). Paragraph 2 contains the fundamental part of the provision with the indication of the guiding principles and criteria to which the legislative decrees must comply. The first criteria, from point (a) to point (e), aim to introduce elements of rationalization and simplification in certain aspects of the legislation of the field and in the relative administrative requirements, with regard to navigation, the recreational units, the temporary navigation of the units in particular situations, the disposal of the flag, the regulation of the activity of lease of the ships. The successive principles of delegation are concerned to widen the offer of the receptive structures of the nautical one regarding the situations today existing, also on the basis of the experience of other Countries. I quote, more specifically, point (f) refers to the forecast of the availability of a reasonable number of approaches dedicated to units in transit, with particular regard to those to be reserved for people with disabilities. Point (g) indicates the timely regulation of equipped mooring fields, in order to protect the ecosystem, and also using information technology and telematics. I believe that with the measure under consideration we are facing a real necessity - as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech - of a system, also economic and productive, that in recent years in our country has suffered heavily for the crisis and also for some wrong choices that have been operated with certain measures in the previous legislature. I signal - and I make a territorial reference - that in our territory, in the Province of Turin, there is one of the most important companies that produce yachts, even of great luxury. I stress the urgent need to give legislation and to breathe this sector again, because precisely in these days that company has announced staff reductions. I believe that, together with the reduction of staff, we also carry a loss of know-how that has always characterized the quality of Italian production. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u86	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u87	Mr President, kind senators, within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law, the Government is delegated to adopt, on a proposal from the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, in agreement with other Ministers, one or more legislative decrees revising the code of pleasure boating. Eight years after the entry into force of the nautical code, it is felt the need to start an organic process of revisitation of the discipline of field, that takes into account the evolution of the economic and social context with which the operators, the users and the competent government have found themselves to confront themselves in the passage of time. The professional operators of the diporto find themselves engaged to face the heavy effects of the recessive moment that characterize the market and the serious economic and employment crisis that has hit the supply chain of the industry and the nautical tourism. The regulatory intervention aims, through simplification, to give a revival to the field of nautical from diporto in order to provide new sap to its development, also in the light of an increasing international competition from the Countries that face the Mediterranean: France, Slovenia, Croatia, for example. That of the nautical from diporto is an economic field that has made to record sensitive bendings of the economies tied to the specific induced ones, in favor of European areas in which more liberal regulatory standards exist. I would like to point out that for the preparation of the delegation proposal cognitive surveys have been carried out also in the light of the data of the last Report on the economy of the sea edited from CENSIS; from this report it is evident that the contribution to the GDP of the nautical tourism is approximately 5 billion euros. A chain closely connected with the manufacturing production of the section (in which Italy is world leader with a turnover of 3,2 billion euros), able to generate a multiplier of income and employment that does not have pairs in the marine cluster, respective of 4,5 and 6,5 against an average of 2,5 and 1,8, and this precisely thanks to the induced generated from the diportistic use of the boats. This chain, I stress again, in the years between 2011 and 2013 has suffered a dramatic crisis that has resulted in the loss of 18,000 jobs in production and of 20,000 in the tourist induced. Still, on the potentialities, Italy has a precious resource that is the sea: our country has over 8,000 kilometers of coast and a maritime vocation that involves the entire national socio-economic structure. The sea for us is a source of tourism, trade, sport, culture and growth, and for this reason all maritime activities must be valued. From the data compiled from UCINA, the nautical Confindustria, it is evident that the nautical one still represents an important voice for the Italian economy: in 2013 the turnover has settled around 2,4 billion euros, figure not indifferent but well away from the 6,2 billion recorded in 2008. It is on this point that we must reflect and make a real effort. In a few years' time the sector, initially prosperous, has entered a serious crisis that still persists. The national market has dissolved, not only because of the economic crisis that has affected the entire Italian economy, but also because of the unwary choices of the Monti Government. The former President of the Council in 2011 announced a parking fee for yachts in national ports, then corrected, six months later, in possession fee. This period of legislative uncertainty has meant that the Italian shipowners have taken the boats away from our ports of call while the foreign shipowners have no longer moored in the Italian ports. Not only have about 40,000 boats fled abroad, but related activities have also been relocated: personnel, on-board and ground services, fuel supply, maintenance services and so on. It had to be a measure capable of combating tax evasion, with the aim of cashing at least EUR 120 million in one year; it was counterproductive in two respects: on the one hand, the final result was much lower than expectations, bringing only EUR 25 million to the state's coffers; on the other (even more serious fact), it damaged the sector, which saw its turnover halved. It was a similar operation to the one that the Monti Government itself and then the subsequent Government led on the car sector, of the series "even the rich crying," with which it was decided to apply a supervignette, caused 60 million euros to be collected instead of the 120 million estimated. We have failed many companies and lost thousands of jobs. Probably, we must recommend ourselves not to commission or to distrust governments that happen, but to open a wide reflection on what the General Accounting of the State does to the State itself by providing the wrong data continuously and preventing parliamentarians and the Government from carrying out their activities properly. The delegation is a good starting point to overcome this depressed phase and to encourage infrastructural participations in a position to valorize the ports of our Regions, especially those of South Italy, not only as port point, but also as center services for those who use the boats for the overnight stay. In this regard, a positive signal comes from the decree unlocks Italy: the marina resorts are equated to accommodation facilities in the open air. In the structures organized for the stopover and the overnight stay of the tourists inside the own units to the mooring can be applied the reduced VAT to 10 percent always in force for all the other segments of the tourism. For pleasure boating is an important step forward towards the recognition of nautical tourism. For pleasure boating is an important step forward towards the recognition of nautical tourism. The boating represents a flagship of Made in Italy. In the world ranking of yacht producers some Italian companies are among the top positions. We therefore understand the importance of providing a linear and simple regulatory and administrative fabric to contribute to the development of a sector that creates market, growth and employment. And again, boating is a multidimensional activity that also involves culture and sport. With regard to culture, the delegation provides for the inclusion of the culture of the sea and of the teaching and the marine education in the educational plans school, also through the activation of specific courses and the institution of the day of the sea in the schools. With regard to sport, the delegation provides for the establishment of the professional figure of the sailing instructor and, consequently, the establishment of a national list of professional sailing instructors, giving the instructor full professional dignity. In light of what has been said, it can therefore appreciate and evaluate the contribution of the delegation to the relaunch of the nautical from diporto in our Country, and I hope that the implementing decrees do not disregard the expectations of increase and development of the field. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the many interventions that have taken place, beginning with that of the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, have highlighted the various aspects in which this measure, which at first sight may seem very sectoral and specific, effectively intercepts some very important elements - the figures have also been mentioned in this House - which have to do with the exploitation of the tourist potential of our territory and with all that concerns the revival and development of the shipbuilding dedicated to nautical, which occupies a very significant part of our production also for the development potential that our manufacturing sector retains in itself at this time, although serious, of difficulties. I add another potential, which I believe should be adequately highlighted: through the nautical from diporto I think we can contribute further to spreading the culture and awareness of the heritage of landscape, historical and territorial value, guarded in the ecosystem of the sea and the coasts that overlook the sea. For all these different reasons, the provision that we are examining today is very important and, as has already been mentioned, delegates the Government to intervene on the system of the rules that govern the nautical from diporto, orienting the same to a profound revisitation, in the sense of a simplification of the application of the advanced technologies in the management of the matches inherent to the public administration applied to this field; to complete the harmonization between the Italian and the European norm; to favor, in the valorization of the resources of the sea and the nautical one, in particular the opening to the market and the competition; to intervene in order to strengthen in a meaningful way all those elements tied to the safety in the practice of the nautical from diporto and to the weaker users of the sea. I remember this because, also from the statistics found from the Ministry of the infrastructures and the transports, turns out like a very meaningful part of the accidents at sea happens near the coasts and is caused from unit of nautical from diporto. Therefore, all the measures outlined in this provision, which, on the one hand, tend to strengthen the sanctions for those who violate laws and rules and, on the other hand, to adopt those mechanisms necessary and indispensable to make safer the use of water, particularly those dedicated to bathing, move in a direction that is equally important compared to the whole corollary of positive economic spillovers, which colleagues have already mentioned and on which I do not dwell. I would like to point out - others have already done so, and I also intend to do so - that a very important aspect of this measure must also be identified in the long and thorough work that has been done in the Commission, for which, of course, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, for having been able to coordinate and summarise it, as well as the President of the Commission and all my colleagues who, by making comments from various points of view - with a work which I believe has been exemplary in this respect - have helped to make this measure even stronger, which obviously moves and remains consistent with the lines and guidelines set out in the original text. Some of the most significant amendments have already been mentioned here, which, during the long work that has developed since April of this year to a few weeks ago - when the text was fired by the Commission - have improved the implementation of the measure, making it somewhat more effective in its impact on the reform of the rules system. I am thinking of those important amendments concerning the introduction into schools of the teaching of the culture of the sea. This is an aspect that I think is particularly important, because I believe that the best precondition for thinking that we can make the most of the resources we have is that those who have to make the most of them have full awareness of them, an objective which, in my opinion, is not yet fully achieved in this country. I am also thinking of the amendments which have been introduced by laying down procedures for the application to recreational craft of those innovations, including in the field of engine power, to less polluting forms and thus to reduce their polluting emissions. I think of all that system of protection that has been inserted in order to make so that the exercise of the nautical one improves its quality of integration, with the requirement of respect and protection of the sea and the ecosystem, that it is obviously also preconditioned so that the exercise of the nautical one can take place in an environment in a position to return to those who practice this activity the full potentialities of the same reason why it is practiced: the valorization of a beautiful landscape, of a clean sea, of an accessible area, as I think it is natural that you look for those who approach to this activity. I add the other significant aspects on the security front, such as the idea of entrusting exclusively the tasks of coordination in the matter of safety to the captains of port, which is another particularly important step forward. In short - and I would like to stress this - on the whole the draft law under consideration, which delegates to the Government important application elements of an overall design, moves in coherence with some of the general guidelines that the Executive is promoting in the field of the various activities that it is called to discipline. I am thinking of everything that concerns the simplification of the management models of public administration; I am thinking of consistency with the idea of a system that opens up to the market, preserving, of course, rigorously the prerogatives of the protection of public goods, which in some way have a fundamental primary aspect, both with an openness to the market and to private operators in the field of the valorization of the resources that this country has. It is therefore a very positive and decisive step, in my opinion, which acts on one of the largest atouts that this country has today to relaunch its profile. In conclusion, I take advantage of the presence of Deputy Minister Olivero and the opportunity to make a reminder that may seem eccentric, but that I believe is relevant. With these measures, which concern the revisiting of the code of the nautical from diporto, we intervene today on a field that, as I have already said, is very important and crucial for a country like Italy; I mean that in the background, however, there is an issue. If we wanted to use an image very in vogue in these years, there is the mother of all the reforms that regards our marine system, that it is that of the ports on which, taking advantage today of this occasion, I remind the Government that in the Commission we are carrying out for some months a job in order to integrate a long job that has been carried out in particular from the first signatory of the bill of reform in harbour matter (and, today, I say also interportuale and logistic). I am referring to the work relative to the more total and general structure of those strategic nodes that concern a fundamental activity for the Country: we are talking about the nautical one from diporto, but the sea and the portualità are one of our essential resources, in a Country that is a sort of natural logistic platform, extended in the Mediterranean to make from bridge between Europe and the great continents of Africa and Asia. That's where our future lies. I would therefore like to stress that perhaps it is important to understand the adoption of this legislation as a good hope, so that the reform of the ports, which is mature and by now indifferent, can soon arrive in this House in order to be able to give this country an instrument of which it has great, enormous and indispensable necessity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u90	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u91	Mr President, we are discussing and approving an important measure for the country. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, who is a competent and passionate expert in the field, as well as the President of the 8th Matteoli Commission. Much work has been done in the Commission to bring this measure to the House and the fact that we are here to talk about it is a first important result. My colleagues have already mentioned the important data of the nautical industry in the Italian manufacturing industry, which I will not repeat. Italy certainly has some atouts, some talents and, among them, there is certainly the sea. The system of tourist portualità is still weak (I will return to us on the end of my participation), but we have a sea of an incredibly great beauty, to preserve also as environmental good. Moreover, it is very welcome this evening, as happened also in the Commission, the substantial convergence that emerges from several parts of the various political forces, from right to left: the old prejudices that led to serious errors of underestimating a sector are overcome. For example, I very much appreciated the speech by Mr Cervellini from the Misto-SEL Group, Vice-President of our Commission. Who doesn't remember the measures of the Monti government? They have been mentioned several times, but I also want to dwell on them because they are a bit 'the emblem of how, proceeding for prejudices, one can damage an important sector for the country: some summers ago had the effect of depressing the landing place to our coasts of boats and foreign tourists and - indeed - to fill the ports of other Mediterranean countries of our boats, with a remarkable decrease of production and value of the same nautical good. Now there is a clear reversal of the trend that Minister Lupi announced to us in the Commission already at the time of the Letta Government and that, with the delegation law that we are approving, finds a firm point. There is a theme that has not been stressed enough and, albeit with a very short cut, I would like to remind you of the importance of Italian design in the nautical industry sector. If it is true, as it is true, that relaunching the beauty, taste and good things we do in Italy is one of the objectives of this Government and the action of this Parliament, the design of Italian boats is certainly, in my opinion but not only, at the forefront of the world. But it must finally be flanked to this provision - already well said my colleague Borioli - a policy of relaunching and investments in the realization of tourist ports. I think, in particular, of the Mezzogiorno and its coasts so long and so poorly equipped by tourist ports that they also have a real capacity for reception, which especially on the Adriatic and Ionian coasts is very weak. There should be a long speech here on the rules on public works, which are still too cumbersome in our country, and it seems that the government will be handing us a hand here shortly - and we, in Parliament - with a substantial reform of the public works code. But we should also talk about the overpower of some superintendents, who often block virtuous initiatives that are very important for the development of tourism: I think of some attempts in Salento to realize beautiful marinas, which have been shipwrecked - it should be said, given that we are talking about the sea - for the opposition of the superintendence, for example in Otranto. What are the objectives of the law, specifically? The simplification of some procedures, the sburocratizzazione of the obligations at the expense of the user, the alignment to the norms of the competing countries and a greater penalty rigor towards the conducts of dangerous driving. All of this will be a qualifying, modern and effective body of legislation. Once finally approved, the law will authorize the Government to issue one or more legislative decrees - hopefully in the right time - aimed at simplifying the administrative regime, the navigation of recreational units (including those engaged in commercial activities) and security control activities, which today still see too many overlaps between the different police bodies, as well as an update of the safety regulations. There is provision for the revision of the procedures of port State control (PSC), penalized for the foreign incoming, the regulation of the activity of lease of the ships and the destination of use for the nautical minor of the state property structures that have characteristics particularly suitable to be used as dry shelter of small boats. It is also very important that the culture of the sea and the teaching of marine education have been included. However, it has not forgotten the correctness of behaviour at sea, in fact it is expected to tighten the sanctions for dangerous driving, in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs, as well as penalties for excessive speed in areas reserved for bathing, near beaches, buoys and boats in the harbor. The environment also has its share, with the provision of equipped mooring camps and the use of computer and telematic technologies in reserve areas and sanctions against those who cause environmental damage. Perhaps, however, more interesting for all boaters is the solution to the problem of psychophysical requirements for the achievement and renewal of nautical licences, today much more burdensome than that of motor licences. In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that we are on the right track. Indeed, on the subject of the sea, I will conclude as Seneca would say: we have a good wind and we know where to go. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u93	Mr President, I would like to speak on a specific aspect of this discipline. The pleasure boating is certainly an extremely important sector for our economy, in its various aspects. Meanwhile, there is the production of the boats and their maintenance: it is a sector that might appear to be niche, but that is very important, because it requires particularly skilled labour, so it also has a high added value; there are the sectors connected to the navigation from diporto, such as the management of the ports and of all the structures of reception that are next to you. Recreational craft therefore creates work not only in the specific sectors of the production, the management and the maintenance of the boats or the ports, but in the accommodation facilities, the restaurants and the amusement zones that are next to these areas. It is for more of an activity that, done with due attention and dealt with in the appropriate way, as many points of this measure require, not only does not cause damage to the landscape, but even embellishes the territory. That is why all possible attention must be paid - and this is an appeal above all to the Government, since it is a delegation - to support this sector with the rules. All parties, representatives and parliamentarians are always in agreement on simplification and deburocratisation. We are ready to throw ourselves against Italy of the brands from stamp or maybe of the tokens of the phone to stick in not suitable apparatuses, but then we fall in the temptation to prevent this, to regulate that other, to specify well that other still and so ends that for the simplest activities we are to face the presentation of documents, the frequency to courses, the controls, the endorsements, the cards from stamp, the certifications, the apparatuses of safety and so on. In this way we run the risk that our good intention to de-burocratize, clash or diverge with the good intention of protecting the safety, the landscape and the adequacy of the structures. So, in order to have more effective rules, it ends up having rules that are so effective as to discourage those who perhaps - and I am talking about this case - would have wanted to buy or still use a recreational boat, because they complain that they have to have a certification, a stamp or a safety device: they are all right things, but we have to choose whether to have a hyper-regulation, regulate and provide for everything and enact rules that not only require a certain measure of safety, but also a certification that shows that we are ready to implement certain maneuvers. We must be careful, however, because then this risks being another reason to move boats to other neighbouring countries. Our country is the most beautiful in the world (of course we say it for patriotism, but also, let's say the truth, for objective reasons), but it is not even the only beautiful country in the world and the Mediterranean. We must therefore avoid the risk of a somewhat bureaucratic application of the rules, which are all well-intentioned, thanks to the work done by all the Members of the Commission, by the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci and by all the Commissioners (among whom I have learned that there are some great experts in sailing, who have great experience and skills in this field; this reassures me from the point of view of the appropriateness of the measures proposed with the needs of the sector). We hope - on my own, I ask the Government - that there will be implementation, in detail, through delegation, as respectful as possible of the need to limit bureaucratic burdens and aspects that risk being counterproductive. I have just read today, for example, the implementing rules of a standard adopted several years ago, aimed at preventing the headers of convenience of cars. This rule was certainly born with the excellent intentions to help combat tax evasion and the phenomenon of cars whose owner is a man of straw, a fake name or in any case a person who is absolutely not able to answer for any damage caused by cars to his name: it is therefore a right purpose. However, this risks becoming a further bureaucratic burden for all citizens who may find themselves temporarily giving up the use of their cars, for good reasons, to other people, for example because someone is no longer able to drive their cars and consequently relies on someone who is not a family member to do so in his place. There is a risk that those who fail to note on the registration card - please note: not on other documents - the person to whom they sell their cars for a period of more than thirty days - which is quite difficult to ascertain - will face fines from 650 to more than 4,000 euros. Then I'd like to wish the government well. Of course, since we are in Parliament, we should not wish ourselves well, but we should give guidelines, which perhaps would have been more appropriate for me to express through an agenda (the speeches, however, should also have their weight). As I said, my wish to the Government is that it strives to ensure that the implementing decrees are also written by experienced people in the real sector, which is that of pleasure sailing, and not by experts in the charters governing pleasure sailing. We must avoid having negative effects. We still remember the extremely negative effect that had the abnormal increase of taxation on pleasure boats following the approval of the unfortunate decree that had the name - alas not very truthful - of save Italy. The calculations of the General Accounting told us that, with that increase, they would collect 100 million more, increasing the rates precisely on the pleasure boats. The result was that a lot of people stopped their boat and transferred it abroad and, instead of cashing in 100 million more, 150 million less were collected. These 150 million less were then added to all the input I was talking about at the beginning of my speech, and it was damaged. I am referring to the personnel who work in the maintenance and operation of these vessels and to those who work in the places where these vessels are moored and maintained. The damage was great for the treasury, but also for the real economy. I'd say we're not really in the era that we can afford this. Therefore, my wish - as well as the direction and request - to the Government is to implement the rules, all of which have been specifically and appropriately studied, in the least bureaucratic way possible, in order to better regulate this sector, which is an important aspect of our economy. Another point that I would like to stress in conclusion is that this delegation really meets the criteria laid down in the Constitution: it contains precise criteria, real criteria, and that is why it is not a blank delegation like those we have seen elsewhere and which, in my opinion, do not meet the constitutional criteria. In Italy, in fact, as in all democratic countries, legislative power belongs to Parliament and the Constitution places precise limits on the ways, times and circumstances through which this power can be delegated to the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u94	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u95	Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank my fellow senators, first and foremost the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, who had this text arrived (to use an appropriate term for the subject we are dealing with) in this House. It's a bill. We often complain about the pressure that Parliament receives from the Government in the legislative initiative; this is an example of how a legislative initiative by the Members of Parliament, with a shared way of doing the work in the Commissions, such as that carried out for the preparation of this work and this text, enables the House to discuss a legislative initiative text which starts precisely from Parliament. The theme is extremely interesting. Listening to the speaker in his introductory speech to the text, he represented economic data strongly relevant to the country: three and a half billion euros of annual turnover with interests that are cross-cutting and quite intense throughout the country, also with points of excellence and with a tradition, from the point of view of the typology of the boats, that has recovered in the world its peculiarity. I come from a land of sea, Campania, so I cannot help but remind the rapporteur Ranucci of the importance and extraordinary tradition of Gozzo Sorrentino, for example. The idea was to intervene on the code of recreational nautical and, therefore, on the rules that must be observed in navigation at sea. I think it is important to discuss this delegation - to use a football metaphor - of the playing field. The playing field in which we must move is given by port equipment and ports. I believe that this issue must be highly significant and shared, not only in this law delegation but above all in all those measures that the Government is preparing to dismiss little by little. These measures mainly concern yards and adjustments. It is clear that recreational boating needs a number of equipment. How many are our ports in Italy that often and willingly have some difficulties just from the point of view of the structural adjustment? I wonder - for example - how one can imagine to make to live, within the same harbour basin, the nautical one from diporto with the exercise of the professional fishing, and therefore with the fishing vessels and their fleets, as well as the transport fleets and, in some cases, also with other forms of occupation of the harbour catchments. It is then strongly connected the theme of how inside of our portualità must coexist all the contiguous equipment but necessary to the development of the activities type the nautical one from diporto. I think - for example - of the yards used for the storage, that often and willingly are places very far from the harbour areas; I think of the difficulties of logistic character of many ports, especially in my Campania region, and the road difficulties connected also to the transport regarding the storage; I think of the participations that perhaps need, in maintenance or safety terms, some docks where there are the berths of the boats. The numbers, somehow snubbed by the rapporteur who speak of about 105,000 registered boats, show us unequivocally that it is a stereotype in a certain sense surpassed to think that recreational boating is the sole prerogative of the most bourgeois classes of our society. Today the nautical from diportuto, above all in some portualità, and in particular in the south of the Country, can be practiced from some pensioners who perhaps, with a small boat, succeed to spend their free time, perhaps associating us also activities connected to the amateuristic fishing. In this measure, therefore, many themes are interwoven. I would recommend to the President of the Commission and to the rapporteur to intervene in the debate and in the confrontation on the delegation that will be given to the Government and to establish a much more effective and strong contact in topic of portualità. It is too important and necessary to the Country and to the development of this provision intervene in a decided way on the portualità. Senator Margiotta said that very well before me. How often do we find it difficult in local administrations to create even those minimal structural adjustments that are needed by the docks. Maybe even a fire hose can be a problem and a constraint for the superintendence, where perhaps Bourbon ports insist. Therefore, it is felt the necessity to look to all round this topic, developing above all the topic of the portualità and recommending to the Government to keep well in mind that some great topics concerning the development of the portualità in Italy represent exactly a given of real economy of the Country. The country's productive economy can be developed in terms of tourism, pleasure boating, supply chain connected to this type of induced, and all the induced connected to this type of supply chain, through investments that can have their value. We must not then scandalize the fact that many times, in the portualità and above all in the requalification of the portualità, we intervene through a partnership between the public and the private one. The mirrors of water represent an extraordinary theme that in the country has concerned the state federalism, because the mirror of water and the concession of the same still falls within the competence of the regional marine state property. It is the Regions that deal with these concessions. Many times also a floating dock or a docking, that can be a gavitello or a package, as happens for some fishing fleets, are of direct competence of the regional marine state property; it is a structure a little 'away from the idea of the territory and from the control that the territory lives with the Coast Guard, the Harbour offices and all that follows to a management of a portualità that has its complexity, especially when there is no division of specificity. Our ports are not always equipped for thematic areas: there are no ports where there is only recreational boating; there are promiscuous ports that hold together more needs and that need a different approach from the point of view of equipment and structural adjustments. I am sure that I will also interpret the sentiment of the President of my Parliamentary Group in the hope that in the next law of stability there will be a serious and intense debate and confrontation so that we can return some more investment to the Mezzogiorno than the SVIMEZ data that debase us and see a further gap with the growth that we also expect from this important part of our country. I am sure that I interpret the sentiment of many of my colleagues in saying to the rapporteur Ranucci and to all my colleagues who wanted this initiative that the right way to go is to put the Commissions in a position to work and educate shared texts and then bring them to the Chamber, knowing that from the comparison we can broaden the prospects that the country needs. We of the Democratic Party, together with all our colleagues, each with its experience and its bearing on what it has represented within the institutions, can make a necessary contribution so that we can work peacefully and above all we can conclude this legislative process for the delegation to the Government, together with that of the bill on the ports, that they can certainly be an opportunity of development for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u96	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u99	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this morning at the MISE, in particular at the division dealing with corporate crises, a meeting took place between the Ministry and the local representatives of the Municipality and the Campania Region, since a company is letting itself die, although it is a flagship of our Italy. There are hundreds of workers in danger. This morning I asked the MISE office, of which I had before, to be able to be present as an audience, although I know very well that in certain situations it is appropriate to find a way to be able to dialogue and reach agreements through a table of union relations. However, when I asked to be here as a simple hearing, I was told that it was not possible because they had not been invited to the House. Then I ask the presidency of the Senate to check whether this is an internal practice in that Ministry or whether there was a will. If it is an internal practice in that Ministry, I would like to remind you that we are the representatives of the nation and must represent our citizens. Of course, a bit of organization is enough: it is enough to establish a representative for each group, at most. So, I'm wondering, are we representatives of the nation or are we a harp that serves to justify the apparatus of executive power? I think the senate's dignity goes away. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u102	PHASE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the situation of immigration from the North-East, which is very much underestimated. Mr Alfano will be present tomorrow and I hope that he will also be able to speak on this occasion. The situation is dramatic. On the day of yesterday alone, another 50 Afghans and Pakistanis entered through the land route, a route that, moreover, saw pass, during the period between the years 2000, during the war in the former Yugoslavia, about 17,000 people. In addition to the 50 people arrived yesterday, there are another 250 who had organized tent cities along the river Isonzo, in the rain, at the side, in a situation really at the limit. These situations have led to a series of initiatives and summits promoted by the Prefect of Gorizia, who brought together the local authorities and sought emergency solutions to fix these people, about 280, plus another 250 at CARA di Gradisca. These figures certainly bring to the attention of the country and Parliament the emergency of the situation. For this reason, I felt that the discussion of this issue was urgent for your attention and the attention of the Government. In fact, in addition to Mare nostrum (at Triton, really), which has been a beautiful gym for our country, there are other problems that concern arrivals by land, decidedly underestimated. The deep social hardships of immigrants arriving in the country and the objective difficulty of local institutions to offer, despite their efforts and commitment, an acceptable reception, or at least dignified, are creating situations of emerging at the limit of sustainability. Of course, the institutions are not always up to the situation. [[Recalls of the President]] Particularly serious and worrying is the situation that has come to create in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in the North-East and throughout the Triveneto. There is a territorial commission presiding over the Triveneto. The situation is dramatic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u103	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u104	PHASE (PD). In particular in Gorizia and Gradisca d'Isonzo, continue these flows and there are queues of waiting that will go on until beyond 2015, until next summer. The situation is no longer tolerable. Since Decree-Law No 119 of 2014, which has become law, will have to be implemented immediately, I invoke precisely this: the attention and immediate implementation of that provision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. PHASE (PD). Wait a minute, allow me. I ask that the committees be duplicated - which is also possible - because these hundreds of people are often rejected by other European countries and therefore need the recognition of the status of asylants, which also comes from other territorial committees. The request, therefore, is that the territorial Commissions be put in place as soon as possible, together with the Dublin Unit, which operates at the Ministry. The prefect asked me personally to make myself spokesperson for all this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u107	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I was not in the Chamber before, when someone mentioned the workers who protested in front of the German Ministry of Economic Development and the German embassy because their jobs are probably falling apart. I was not in the Chamber because I was with them, in front of the Ministry of Economic Development. I found myself in front of a curtain of vehicles that turned that square into a chicken cage, where there was no way in or out for the people who were there to fight for their job, with great determination and anger. I would like to bring to this House, even if it is almost deserted, the smell of that anger, the smell of anger that we all have, because we live it every day on our skin. We know what it means to be precarious; we know what it means when no one gives answers to our precariousness. We know very well who is responsible for this infinite state of insecurity of ours: we owe it to the State and governments, to this Government and to those who preceded it. Today, in front of the Ministry of Economic Development, there was no company, but there were many, there were three. There was the TRW of Livorno, where at risk there are 400 jobs plus the induced. Livorno is my land, Tuscany, which at this moment is razed to the ground, if we put together also the situation of Piombino with its 4,000 workers, with the steel mills, with the promises made by politics, the governors, the former mayors, the prosecutors and all of them. He's still waiting for something to come from the sky, maybe some ship to demolish, which happens to be gone. There was also another company in Caserta, Jabil, which is losing 380 more jobs and which is also caught by the neck. Those people were screaming. I will take charge of asking questions about this in this House, but I wonder what these might do if none of you, if not very few, listen to those people. If someone listened to those people, in our State the laws would be different, they would have been different from the first day that the Italian Republic exists. Instead, always there to vex the last ones, to make them things to use and to exploit. Today I want to bring their anger because it's my anger! Yesterday, in the Commission, Mr Poletti admitted that the policies we are pursuing are not enough. We need policies that protect income because at the moment it is what people are missing: security and income are lacking. For the past year and a half we have been pursuing our proposal for citizenship income, which could make these people come home tonight without having to scream and cry in front of their children! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I call for the Minister and all of you to take charge of our proposal, to read it: it is a proposal that would really help the Italian citizens, so that their anger is also our hope of doing our job well as spokesperson and parliamentarians. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u110	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues who have referred to the very serious events that have taken place today before the Ministry of Economic Development. Precisely with regard to these very serious facts, I appeal and urge the conduct of the questioning by abbreviated procedure 2-00193, presented last September. The drift that is recorded inside and outside the palaces is not new, but it is something that is happening more and more often. In fact, on August 14th, in Naples, on the occasion of the visit of President Renzi to Bagnoli, a group of protesters - as documented by a video delivered also in the prefecture - was stopped, put in the grip by the police and manganellated. The very serious events that have taken place today outside the Ministry of Economic Development recall those of August 14. We are still waiting for an answer to the questioning from Minister Alfano. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-342.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 30 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
