ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like the Senator Secretary to read the Minutes more slowly next time so that we can understand it better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u5	Maybe if there was a little more silence you could even understand. It is not a problem of slowness or speed: it is rather the fact that this House is not deaf and should be mute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u8	Montevecchi (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u13	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Ciampollo? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on a matter which I have already brought to the attention of the officials of the Presidency (they told me that they would report to you). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I believe they have told you that you will be able to intervene at the end of the sitting. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, then I am speaking on the order of business. Please do me this courtesy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you know there are rules: we try to cooperate, in compliance with the rules. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). First of all, I did not ask you to intervene on a personal basis. At the end of the Chamber yesterday morning... On the order of business, Senator Ciampollo. Stick to the request. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak, just as Senator Lepri, who spoke at the beginning of the sitting, had the opportunity to do so at sitting No 160. Last night you, according to the reports of the offices, gave up the late sitting surgery that you had been allowed to do. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, tell me if there is a regulation for PD and one for us. In fact, if Senator Lepri had a chance on his own...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u14	Senator Ciampolillo, you must know that by established practice the Group Presidents can always intervene at any time. For all the other senators, there is an opportunity to speak at the end of the sitting, which you gave up yesterday. I would therefore ask you to continue with the work. If you wish to speak, you will have the floor at the end of the sitting. Although it is not personal, I understand that it is necessary for the order of business for me to continue the sitting in accordance with the scheduled agenda. I repeat, you will have all the time at the end of your session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 948, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft law of initiative of the deputies Burtone and others, Vendola and others, Francesco Sanna and others, Micillo and others, 200, 688, 887 and 957. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u16	Mr President, we have retabled the same amendments proposed in the Commission. On Amendment 1.4 there is a printing error. On the third line, the second 'procacciatore' shall be replaced by 'procacciamento' ('procacciamento') ('procacciatore'). Having said that, I refer to what was said last night in my general speech and I appeal to your experience of the Mafia to invite the House to reflect. The standard, as written in the Commission, allows for the configuration of the possible dole. That is why we have identified a number of amendments, the first ones, relating to the identification of the one who makes politics and is unworthy of doing so when he has any relationship with members of criminal or mafia organisations: I repeat, any kind of relationship. If so, you must be aware of talking to a mobster. Everything else, for example the promise, is fine, and we agree perfectly. However, you teach me that the qualification of the promise - a problem that Senator Casson also raised yesterday in general discussion - by means of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph must also be put into practice. In fact, if it all comes down exclusively to a promise without implementing those modalities, you teach me that false mafia repentants can be arranged to exploit that tool. In this case false repentants may have a standard that can be used instrumentally by the mafia. I therefore ask the rapporteur and the Government to make it clear that the reformulation in the following terms of the first part of the text approved by the Commission, and therefore of my amendment: "Anyone who accepts from those who participate in mob associations, with the awareness of the subjective quality of the interlocutor." You can then find another formula, but this is the concept, that is, if you have the awareness of the subjective quality of the interlocutor. With this clarification at the beginning of the text approved by the Commission, it is clear that everything else is properly identified and there is no chance of doing so in such a matter. At the same time, any possibility of instrumental use by the Mafia is excluded. Just read Riina's latest statements these days to realize how it is possible to exploit, even the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u17	Mr President, Amendment No 1,100 which I tabled relates to the subjective connotation of the crime we are talking about. I apologise to my colleagues in the Senate Justice Commission because, at first, I accepted a joint subscription that did not include the clear inclusion of this clause. I repeat the terms of the amendment, which proposes the introduction, in the first paragraph, after the words "Whoever accepts" of the following "with full awareness" (to relate to organised crime). I would like to make this reference precisely by quoting Mrs Casson, whom yesterday referred to Article 43 of the penal code, which - as we know - describes the subjective elements of the crime. I would like to remind you, therefore, before reaching the conclusions quickly: it is considered to be "dolous," or according to the intention, when the harmful or dangerous event, which is the result of the action or omission and from which the law makes the existence of the crime depend; it is from the agent predicted and wanted as a consequence of his action or omission; it is preterintentional, or beyond the intention, when from the action or omission comes a harmful or dangerous event more serious than the one desired by the agent; it is manslaughterous, or against the intention, when the event, even if predicted, is not wanted by the agent... It has been said that this article in the penal code would make this clarification unnecessary, since this is the case that we are certainly dealing with arson. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, and in particular the rapporteur and Mr Ferri, who will have to express an opinion on these amendments, on the distinction between conscious guilt and possible malice, which would mean a long dissertation, which I shall avoid to you, Mr President, and to my colleagues, considering that you are already familiar with the matter. On such a sensitive subject, however - in order to avoid the exploitation of an extremely serious fact such as organized crime and its connivance with the institutions - it is important that this element be adequately identified and pursued in its arsonist notion. The discretion which could be left to an absolutely arbitrary interpretation of the distinction between conscious guilt and eventual malice must be clarified. I make a short-term reference to the European elections, in which there is a preference vote: if a candidate is approached by a graduate of Bocconi, who does not even speak with a Sicilian, Neapolitan or Calabrian accent, and invited to a public demonstration, when it is known that he runs a financial society that recycles money, it is not possible that this - without the connotation of consciousness - can be an element to incriminate the aforementioned candidate, as he has had unconscious relations with organized crime and with it has formulated a legitimate dialogue in himself, but with such connotations. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the reasons why I felt that I included the subjective aspect of the awareness of dealing with crime very clearly and unequivocally.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u18	Mr President, I was looking at your face as Senator Albertini spoke, and I understand that in this debate so many authoritative colleagues, academics, professionals, magistrates, can sometimes smile at some assessments, but I believe that on a matter like this we must be very careful. I asked for the floor because yesterday I could not speak for a debate - I was not on the list, although I had requested it - but then I will give an explanation of vote. However, I am already saying that I withdraw Amendments Nos 1,101 and 1,103 and I maintain Amendment No 1,102. Of course, and I'm referring to her smile before, it's an ancient argument...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u19	Look, it's not a smile: it's a welcome focus on issues that I care about. I try not to express, through my attitude, any opinion. But I caught him like that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no membership, or anything. Nothing can be seen from this point of view. I wanted to make it clear: it is a theme I know, but I am absolutely outside of it. Sunta (SPI). There is no misunderstanding. I totally caught him like that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. But since he insisted on my smile several times, I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u20	I got it right and right, and there's no misunderstanding. It is the subject of an ancient discussion whether or not the awareness of realising a legal fact falls within the dole. We all know that for doctrine - I also address Senator Casson - one account is the dole and one account is the evaluation of the disvalue of the anti-juridical fact. The problem lies in framing in a broader frame the principle of the incensurability of the ignorantia iuris. We fully agree that the promise should be punished and that the honourable compromise reached in the House should be overcome, a political fact which I would not underestimate anyway, because on a problem such as this one we are able to vote unanimously in Parliament is a wealth that we cannot disperse. But at the moment when we re-introduce the concept of promise, which can be made in many ways and which always leaves wide margins to the investigative judiciary to initiate investigations, and even more so to the judicial one in the interpretation in the course of the judgment, it is necessary to strengthen the subjective element, both from the point of view of the dole and the awareness of the disvalue of the anti-juridicity of the fact. With the introduction of the adverb "consciously" it was intended to do just this, that is not only to strengthen, in the specific case, the provisions of Article 43 of the penal code, but also the criterion of awareness of violating the law, because a promise can be made in many ways, but can acquire an anti-juridical value by virtue of its intrinsic disvalue linked to those who do it, therefore to the awareness of those who do it, and the interest that goes to reach. On the other hand, it is not that we can always, and I conclude, give each other a lesson depending on the situation. Yesterday we wrote that we would repeal a crime by turning it into an administrative offence, when we all know in doctrine that either it is transformed or it is abolished. But since propaganda is also useful for politics, we wrote "abrogare" in order to mean "transform", that even if a first-year student who supports the examination of institutions of criminal law would have involved many professors in this House returning the booklet and returning to the next appeal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is the situation, and that is why I withdraw Amendments Nos 1,101 and 1,103, which complicate the basic text of the Commission, but I maintain Amendment No 1,102. Of course, my Group does not fail to take a positive view of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u21	Mr President, I do not actually intend to present the amendments, but I would like to say that, if Amendment 1,105 were not adopted, I would withdraw Amendment 1,107, which would be retained if the amendment itself were adopted. I will then ask for the floor in the explanation of vote on Amendment 1,105.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u22	The remaining amendments are set out. At the end of the illustration phase, we proceed to the discussion in all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the House and the Government to the person of Mr Ferri and the President. There are great experts and law technicians in this House, but there are also campaign experts. It happened to all of us to be candidates in City or Region (it happened to me with the unique preference when I became parliamentary for the first time), so I think I'm pretty experienced about what an election campaign is. An electoral campaign in Italy, Germany, in the United States is mentioned in promises against utility. Anyone who is a candidate for an election promises voters, associations, Coldiretti, industrialists, the CGIL to conduct certain behavior or to have certain laws passed (the usefulness for them) and in return asks these organizations for electoral support. It is clear that Coldiretti has enjoyed for years the fact that there was a parliamentary group in Parliament that had at heart the problems of agriculture and that allocated funds for the sector. And so far we are absolutely on the level of the lawful. The wrongdoing is determined, however, when, as you explained yesterday, the character to whom this promise is made in exchange for utility is identified with a character connected to the underworld, with a criminal. This criminal - I am told - uses mafia methods to get votes. But following this reasoning, it may be the case that, in the eyes of the candidate, the president of an association of pharmacists or entrepreneurs in Milan is only the president of an association of entrepreneurs and nothing else, with which to make a legitimate electoral exchange, while, perhaps, this is instead one who, to assure the candidate the votes he promised, uses intimidating and mafia methods. The first link is, therefore, very clear: there is a candidate who speaks with a character who, in reality, is mafia. But the second link escapes me. As was said yesterday, we identify this president of association as a mobster because he uses the methods that the penal code identifies as getting votes with violence, intimidation and all the systems that the mafia uses; but if in article 416 -ter it does not show that it is necessary to show, by whom he will investigate, that the candidate knew that he was not the president of Confindustria or of the craftsmen or of the union, but he was one who used mafia systems to give votes, whatever is done in the electoral campaign, any association, body or character with which we lawfully contact to have preference votes or to be voted, you risk, if that one has a second life or other connections, to be incriminated. Then it will also have to be pointed out technically in the text that the candidate, when there is a promise of usefulness, is somehow aware that mob systems or organised crime are being used to give him a vote. But if this thread of connection between the personality with which he deals and the methods he will use, he opens the door to any will: as long as it emerges that the person who has been busy for me in the electoral campaign is connected with the underworld, and I end up in trial. Then it can be said: but in the trial it may also emerge that when you spoke with the president of that association you did not know; of course, but it becomes a very difficult test, if we do not write in the text that the candidate in some way must have realized that he had to deal with a criminal. If we do not do this, we expose all politics and democracy to a situation even of "scandal," so to speak, which does not strengthen, but weakens the fight against organised crime, because it paralyses political action by not distinguishing the free exercise of the collection of votes from criminal facts. And when cases of unjustly accused people or prosecutors moving a little too casually happen, it happens that the fight against crime instead of being strengthened is weakened. The appeal that I make to the House's reflection is that a reflection should be made before, for the umpteenth time, running into accidents which may arise from an unscrupulous piece of legislation. It struck me, as a non-technical one, that unanimity in the House had been found precisely on awareness, and everyone had voted on a text that presupposes that you can end up in prison if you promise utility in the electoral campaign and you are aware of what you are doing. This compromise had been found in the House, while in this text awareness has disappeared. If tomorrow happens to me, to my son or to a relative of mine to make an electoral campaign, when you go to seek votes and to have links, I would like to understand how you can discern or know if the character you have been in contact with will use, to find votes or for the promise of votes, systems of the mafia type. I think Senator Albertini explained himself well on this point. Then there are other amendments, and in any case we need to find a way to clarify when the crime is taking place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u28	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Susta if he would allow me to subscribe to Amendment No 1,101, which provides for the addition of the adverb "consciously." In my view, this is an essential and central point of this measure, as I pointed out yesterday in my speech in the general debate. It's true that...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u29	Senator Falanga, excuse me for interrupting, but in the course of your speech, Senator Susta withdrew Amendments 1,101 and 1,103. If Amendment 1,101 has been withdrawn, you cannot add the signature. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Has Amendment 1,102 also been withdrawn? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Then I would ask you to subscribe to this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Susta, do you consent to Senator Falanga's signature of amendment 1.102? Sunta (SPI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. Senator Falanga, continue with your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u30	Amendment 1,102 also addresses the problem of awareness. As far as it can be considered that the element of the will is already in itself in the dole and therefore, being a crime, it could be considered superfluous, the emphasis is useful to the interpreter for an investigation of the crime that can be more responsive to the facts as they occur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u31	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u32	Mr President, colleagues have raised a number of interesting issues, but their concerns have already been removed from the text in the sense that they have been accepted. There are amendments which re-examine certain aspects in a strengthening way, but I do not think that the work done in the Commission can be called into question only because of concerns which, to be honest, have already been transposed. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 1,102, for which I refer back to the House. If I do not withdraw, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u33	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur on all the amendments: as I tried to explain yesterday in reply, President Palma's amendment 1,105 raises a legal problem on which a choice has been made in the Commission and, indeed, I have only tried to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u37	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u38	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u41	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 1.4 replaces the text approved in the Commission with the text approved by the House. If we had maintained the initial idea, which was to confirm the text of the House, so much so that - if I remember correctly - it was granted by you, President, in accordance with the rules laid down by the Rules of Procedure, even the deliberating seat, this law would have been in force for six months now. Instead, it was intended to delay the adoption of this law in order to make it worse in a drastic and dangerous way for justice and democracy. I believe that it would be an extremely positive and responsible act, which would, among other things, prevent the further transition to the House of Deputies, vote in favour of amendment 1.4, which would confirm the text of the House of Deputies and allow it to have a law in force immediately. Attention: we are talking about the text of the Chamber of Deputies, where we know very well what numbers there are. Is it possible that the House of Deputies has made a mistake in the sense that it has not been extreme enough to increase the arbitrariness? I should speak of discretion, but it becomes a will if it is entrusted to anyone who can have among his proposals, for the various reasons why he may have them, the fact of using the discretion of prosecution, which is in fact there, to strike someone rather than someone else. In addition to the provision of money, the House was introduced - and I remember that the proposal was discussed a lot in the electoral campaign - the other usefulness was also introduced. The House did this and in the Commission to the Senate wanted to go further, establishing that it was any other utility. Let us point out then that at the time of municipal elections the exponent of a party or group of people assures his support to the mayor and says that it would seem right to him, in case of victory, since his group (his party or his list) is strong, that his political part is recognized as a role in the Junta, for example that of councilman. Well, that is another utility, and certainly any other utility. And for this reason we predict seven or twelve years in prison, at the discretion of the magistrate, when we have numerous examples recognized by the judiciary itself of misguided sentences (how much is it true that there are three degrees of judgment, and this will be good for some reason)? Even if, in the next degree of judgment, the sentence were changed and justice restored, in the meantime the mark of infamy would have been stamped for a conviction that is for a crime of a mafia character, so there would be the maximum of infamy for anyone, and in particular for a person who puts himself at the service of the public thing through his political commitment. I really do ask all my colleagues to consider Senator Caliendo's amendment 1.4 in favour, and we are about to vote, which restores the House's text. We have a law that goes into effect immediately. It is not an extreme position, so much so that the House voted it a few months ago, and we would avoid a law that would give such room to the discretion to introduce in a heavy and dangerous way the arbitrariness, which is exactly the opposite of justice and the rule of law, which is the most precious thing we have. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u44	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, to whom I appeal, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, as rapporteur in an even more particular way, I believe that all these amendments must be considered very carefully, because the subjective element can certainly be considered implicit in the dole, but how can we fail to see a terrible propensity for the objectivity of the criminal dimension? How can we fail to see in the case law the dangers of decisions which do not correspond to the will of the legislator as well as what would be manifested by such a questionable measure? Why deny the emphasis on the awareness, the certainty of the characteristics of the person with whom the covenant referred to in this provision would be established? I mean, why not? I ask you, why not? Why not seek a shared solution on an issue that concerns the fundamental guarantees that help to give certainty to our right, even more so in such a sensitive matter as this? We all want to combat and isolate the criminal phenomenon and organised crime in particular, to isolate it from the political dimension, but how can we not want the element of certainty and awareness together? I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the Members of the Commission whether they can make a proposal that brings together the content of the proposed amendments. Otherwise, the Group of the New Right Centre will vote in favour of all these amendments because it recognizes a necessary element which is far from all. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u46	You have the right to do so. I would remind you, however, that you can speak only in dissent - as Senator Malan has already spoken for your Group - or you can speak later on on another amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u47	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote in complete dissent from my Group, if the Group's approach is to vote in favour of this bill. Colleagues, I am certainly not a magistrate or lawyer: I am a doctor, but I did various election campaigns. I agree with what Senator Sacconi said earlier, in the passage in which he said that politics - and not only - must give clear and clear signals, I understand that. But, ladies and gentlemen, with this text we are going to make an electoral campaign to put ourselves in the hands of the magistrates, because there is a huge discretion, given by Article 416- bis of the penal code, which does not guarantee certainty. In fact, it is not that, when you meet an association on the territory (for example, in Campania, Lombardy or Veneto), that association is present as a mob association. It's not like that. On the territory we meet the categories, the groups of people. Let's think about the people who ask us in a bar: "I'm honored, can I take a picture with you?" Selfie! And they take the picture. And who knows them? You have seen the raid in Rome in shops and restaurants in the center, behind which it is said - although the investigations still have to be concluded - that there was organized crime. It means... ma'am, you laugh: I wouldn't laugh. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not laughing. [[Protests of Senator Cardiello]] Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). She's grinning! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm not laughing. But you are not speaking in dissent from your Group. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am, I'm acting in dissension. I do not vote for this text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His Group stated that it voted... MUSSOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). How does my group vote? You're gonna hold back? What are you doing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you have not listened to your Group's explanation of vote, I am sorry. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Look, President, I want to stress... President. You cannot speak on this amendment, because your speech is not a dissenting one and your Group has already spoken. You can talk about another amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Lo Giudice e Puppato.]] Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). I can't talk, and the magistrates can send us to jail until we're 12? I'm talking! Look, President, the Senate is being eliminated, because you decide outside of Parliament... President. No, the problem is respect for Senate rules, and I'm here to enforce procedural rules. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you're interrupting me and you're not letting me talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, I'm interrupting you because you said you were dissenting and that's not what you're doing. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Colleagues of my group, how do you vote? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In favour of amendment 1.4. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). All right, since colleagues are voting in favour of the amendment, I am voting against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). I am saying that this is a dangerous text, which does not meet the citizens and their, and ours, desire for legality. It's a guillotine text. The election won't do any good anymore! And you want your preferences, too? And who are you gonna go ask her about her preferences? To what category? One must be given by the prosecutor to certify the criminal record of all those with whom he is talking in the electoral campaign. I am in favour of an intervention against the Mafia associations and against the relations between politics and the Mafia, but we cannot vote for a text for which the judges will practically make the electoral campaign. I myself, then, if I ever have to redo an election campaign, will do it directly from the offices of the college prosecutor where I will go to present myself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u50	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 1.4, of which I am a signatory, along with other colleagues. I call on Members to reflect, because I do not think it is possible to exhaust the speech by saying that 504 Members of the House of Deputies, belonging to all the Groups, are 504 criminals: we cannot liquidate the speech in this way. I would remind you that the text was adopted unanimously. I appeal to the Government: on the adverb the Government had given a favourable opinion to the Chamber of Deputies; then - certainly - pressure came into the field, perhaps even from organized crime, which changed the opinion. We do not understand, otherwise, why unanimity has been recorded in the House and, once it has reached the Senate, it has been considered a crime in the other branch of Parliament. There have been external interventions that have led to a text being carried out which is not unanimously shared as that of the House of Deputies: it is a text in part. The rapporteur - now he has escaped, but I wanted to turn to him - has a culture that, at least from a starting point, is like mine: guarantor and reformist. Now he's taking a bad drift. I have seen that on Senator Susta's amendment 1,102 he has returned to the Chamber. I believe that this is a time of great reflection, including on the part of the rapporteur and the government, because this is emerging in this House. Senator Albertini and Senator Susta, who had also signed the amendment in the Commission, have rightly changed their minds, then adopted by majority with the 5 Star Movement. But the intelligent person is the one who then reflects. Friends and comrades, if one day comes out - and that day is approaching - that certain contracts, in certain regions, of certain red cooperatives are judged conditioned by organized crime, you no longer save anyone! So, look at what you're doing now, because it could really affect you and your families, because then we hand over the magistrates the license to kill. They're really 007. Therefore, I invite the Government and the rapporteur to rethink what was done to the House, because that unanimity could also be unanimous here in the Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u53	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to withdraw my signature from Amendment 1.4, because I am going to distance myself from a cultural issue that has found its impetus - and I am sorry for the left - from the demands and suggestions of a television camera named Roberto Saviano. Gentlemen of the Left, in the House you approved a measure that was technically correct, so much so that you had our support. You have arrived at the Senate and, after the suggestions that have been given to you publicly by those who, through their statements and television participations, have let themselves be conditioned. I am sorry, because I believe that many of you are very authoritative experts in law. You let yourself be influenced by any Roberto Saviano! Senator Finocchiaro, don't look at me like that. Because, if I look at you, I am saddened to think that you had to wait for a suggestion from a gentleman who makes the right a convenience store. Because this is being done: a convenience store! I note with great satisfaction that, after the intervention of Senator Sacconi, the friends of the New Right Centro arrived at the same conclusion as us. But I do not participate: I withdraw my signature from this amendment, because I do not want to address this issue, if it puts a gentleman named Roberto Saviano on the carpet. And you know it well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u54	Senator Falanga, the Presidency takes note of the withdrawal of his signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u57	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote in order to clarify the terms of the matter, both from a historical point of view, to understand how justice has emerged in the Commission and outside, and to challenge those attempts at psychological terrorism made this morning in this House on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] First of all, I would like to mention how the criticism of the text as approved in the House of Deputies is historically advanced by the Senators of the Democratic Party in the Justice Commission before any controversy in the newspapers came out. Senator Falanga is well aware of this, because we have also said this in the Justice Commission, clarifying this anticipation of the newspapers with the dates of the Commission's work. We had, therefore, noted some shortcomings in the text of the House, immediately signalled with the will to intervene in the Senate's Justice Commission. Then the newspapers intervened, and then the controversy was settled. I wanted to start from this point of view. The second aspect is what I called psychological terrorism, haste of not knowing what. For many months now, this bill has been before the Senate since the Justice Commission, with first-aid attempts to get it to the Commission, given the broad consensus it seemed to enjoy, and then to return to the referral office and get to the Chamber. Now, I'd like to deny the form of psychological terrorism that Senators Malan and Barani put forward. When one says, and wants to make one believe, that any politician can be called to respond to the criminal case in question is said to be false. Just read the text of the rule that is proposed to realize that the behavior that is sanctioned criminally is completely different. And I understand technically. Since the beginning of the examination we have addressed and deepened one of the fundamental issues, namely the question of how we can reach the commission of the crime in question. From the Chamber there was a suggestion: it was said "modality provided for by the third paragraph of article 416- bis ", which I will now read to you. We asked: should it be maintained? Should I take it off? We wanted to maintain these ways, because they are those of criminals, and not of politics. I read the third paragraph of Article 416-a, because it is fundamental and for years it has existed and is applied, and on this very extensive is the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, also of the United Chambers. This paragraph states that: "The association is of a mafia type when those who are part of it" - here begins the important part on the modalities - "use the force of intimidation of the associative bond and the condition of subjection and omerta". These are the required modes. These were, are and will be - in our view - criminal ways, which are not the methods of clean and transparent politics. It is in these ways that crime is committed. They cite, therefore, intimidation, associative constraint, condition of subjection and omertà that derives from it for the purposes indicated therein, i.e. to commit crimes, to acquire in a direct or indirect way the management or in any case control of economic activities, concessions, authorizations, public contracts and services or to achieve unjust profits or advantages for themselves or for others or to prevent or hinder the free exercise of the vote....................................................................................................................................... If this isn't criminal behavior, I don't know what to say. I am convinced that we cannot mirror ourselves in this representation, as a policy, as outlined in Article 416-a: we are outside. This is what is required, and we want the norm to maintain, for there to be the vote of political-mafia exchange, the reference to these criminal ways, which (I stress) are not the ordinary ones of transparent and correct politics. With regard to the second aspect mentioned by some senators in their explanations of vote, and by Senator Sacconi himself, this is a problem which will be raised again in other amendments, but which I think I should point out right now. I am referring to the aspect of awareness. As we have already said in general discussion and as Senator Caliendo, who was an accident victim, recognized and, I think, Senator Sacconi, would be of common sense to demand awareness: there would be no more! There must be awareness. And what is this awareness? It is the psychological element of the crime, it is the dole, in the explanations that I will now say. In article 43 of the penal code (code Rocco-Mussolini, therefore certainly not done by the Democratic Party or by who knows which communist) we read: "Psychological element of the crime - The crime: it is arson, or according to the intention, when the harmful or dangerous event, which is the result of the action or omission and from which the law makes the existence of the crime depend, is by the agent predicted and wanted as a consequence of his action or omission." That would be enough. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-GAP groups.]] I'd stop here, because it's very clear. It's all written down here. Beyond this general aspect, however, I would like to recall the rule that we have just mentioned, because this behaviour requires, as I said earlier, that force of intimidation, that subjection, that omerty to commit crimes, to prevent or hinder the vote, for all that series of activities, which I mentioned earlier. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the element which is required in addition or is useless or dangerous for the interpreter, because it places obstacles in the way of operators' activities: Police, Carabinieri, Finance Guard, Police forces in general and judiciary. I therefore believe that we should reject Amendment No 1.4 and those on the same line. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-GAPp groups and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u60	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the Movimento 5 Stelle Group will vote against the amendments because the text dismissed by the Commission is the result of a long, thorough and shared elaboration in which - as the rapporteur, Mr Buemi, has said - all the problems have been tackled and removed. To re-propose them here is simply to try to undermine a text that has its own completeness and effectiveness. On this occasion, for the sake of truth, I would like to remind you - Mr Falanga - that Saviano intervened three days after the 5 Star Movement Group blocked the unanimity that had brought justice to the Commission to examine the text arrived by the Chamber of Deputies in the deliberating session. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We had blocked it because the text did not convince us of fundamental elements, which then also found the agreement and competition of the other political forces that approved the joint text. There are two fundamental elements that have made us immediately alarmed. The first: the reduction of the sentence (approved nineteen years ago) compared to the crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was inexplicable, given the seriousness of the crime that is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed in this country, apart from the massacres and murders, because it is attentive to the freedom of all citizens and the free exercise of democracy! It seemed paradoxical and absurd to predict a decrease in the specified penalty nineteen ago compared to the crime. Not only that. There was a serious mistake, a mockery: the reduction of the sentence was also foreseen for the mobster who was involved in the crime with the politician. It seemed, even, a way to entice the mobster to agree with the politician to receive a discount of the sentence: something that was not really in heaven, nor on earth! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] He did not listen to Saviano, who arrived the following Wednesday. The 5 Star Movement Group on Monday of that week raised these issues, and this can be clearly seen from the Commission's Reports. That is why we shall vote against all the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u62	Senator Caliendo, do you ask to speak in dissent from the Group or to withdraw the amendment at your first signature? In fact, you have already spoken to explain it, while Senator Malan spoke for an explanation of vote. I would like to understand, therefore, the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u63	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to speak as the author of the amendment, so that everyone can reflect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I agree with the statements made by Senator Casson, who repeated what was written in Article 416 bis: it is assumed that the associate should carry out those activities. I agree perfectly, just as I agree perfectly with the identification of the dole. If, however, there is no awareness that that person is associated... Mr President, other Presidents of the Senate have also spoken to give technical indications. I urge you to take a position, because this is not a political issue. We want to approve this measure; on the other hand, there is arrogance on the part of someone who tries exclusively to have a political confrontation that does not exist. So, you don't want to fight the mob, but you just want to do a mystical operation! You must intervene, from the top of your authority, to make it clear that there is no political confrontation, there is no will not to approve this measure, but you just want to avoid an instrumental use of the norm. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u64	Senator Caliendo, you ask me for an intervention that is not part of my role as President of the Senate. In practice, I cannot even vote. [[Applause from Senators Bottici, D'Anna and Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u67	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is an important measure. I have a degree in economics and commerce; I have studied some law, but I am not an expert. The measure was approved in the House, but we have heard very different opinions from people who have legal authority. The whole problem is whether the will and the awareness are the same: it doesn't seem to me that way. I would like, in the light of what has happened, to know the opinion of the rapporteur, because he should be the one who interprets a certain situation. I therefore ask for the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u68	I think that if the rapporteur had changed his view of what was being said, he would have warned the Presidency. In any case, I would like to ask Senator Buemi whether, on request, he has changed his opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u69	Mr President, these are concerns which, from my point of view, do not exist. I have put myself back to the House on a point relating to the psychological element, namely that of awareness, highlighted in Amendment 1,102, signed by Senator Susta. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u70	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 948, 200, 688, 887 and 957. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u73	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I rise to make two points. First of all, there are those who assume the responsibility in this House to break the anti-mafia and anti-criminal front: instead of giving the country and crime the signal of a united Parliament in the fight against the mafia, with this operation and this attitude, Parliament inevitably divides itself. I'll explain what you're splitting up about. I have listened to Senator Casson, with whom I fully agree that the way in which the votes - those he has read - are obtained must be pursued with the utmost determination. Senator Casson, here there is always no link, because you referred - or in any case it was written in the provision that we are asked to approve - to anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes through the modalities that you have described, but I do not believe that the candidate goes to sign a notarial document with organized crime in which he says: Dear Mafia, the promise of vows must be fulfilled through intimidation or threat. I don't know if anyone writes something like that. If, however, according to Senator Casson, we predict that the promise must be fulfilled by such means, that, when we receive a promise of votes, we must know or agree that the votes will have to come in this way, then either there is a notarial contract or the magistrate - and I repeat the first problem - to the candidate who in good faith agrees with a person, who is president of the National League of Cooperatives, president of Coldiretti, president of the industrial associations... [[Senator Susta's comments.]] Excuse me, Senator Susta, what does that mean? We're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u74	Please, Senator Giovanardi, time passes: continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u75	GIOVANARDI (NCD). President, I see that your colleague is showing signs of... We're in Parliament. [[Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u76	Senator Giovanardi, please finish your speech again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u77	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, if we do not introduce the element of awareness, this becomes an automatism according to which those who have received this kind of promise, once the investigators are satisfied that there have been these methods behind that gentleman, if he has had the misadventure - as Senator Mussolini has well said - to contact those individuals, especially in the most endangered areas of the country, how can he manage? What shows, if there is no element of awareness, that can be proven by the magistrate through intercepts, documents? In short, the magistrate will have to demonstrate that somehow there is a link between the criminal activity of this association and the candidate's will. Otherwise, we put the candidates in a position to not be an electoral companion, in some parts of the country, or to depend on the discretion of the magistrates, who can intervene on this or on that other, but not on the basis of the indications that emerge from the law. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u80	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we asked to speak first on the order of business, and so did I! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait, you'll all have the floor. Sunta (SPI). They'll give you the floor, colleagues. [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u81	Senator Airola, calm down: there is no need to exasperate the situation, everyone will have the word, when it is due.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u82	[[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] Wait a minute, Senator Montevecchi, Senator Susta asked for the floor before you. Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would just like to ask the Presidency whether it is possible to repeat the vote on Amendment 1.4, because, while we were starting the debate, we were deciding what to do and I was going to give directions. In any case, since I quickly pressed the green button, but I wanted to press the red button, I would like to ask, if possible, for the correction of my vote on Amendment 1.4, which was intended to be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u83	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u86	[[Comments by Senators Airola and Palma.]] Senator Airola, please stay calm. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to you in a calm and polite manner that yesterday, when the general debate on this measure took place, the House was half-empty. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Today it seems disrespectful, then, to the Members who were here yesterday, ready to speak in general debate, that you allow time to speak, with surreptitious explanations of vote, to those who were absent yesterday. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u87	I would ask you to re-read the Rules of Procedure on speaking time: make a more detailed study of the timing of explanations of vote on each amendment. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u88	No, Mr President, because I have not heard explanations of vote, but delicacies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u90	What do you want to intervene on, Senator Candiani? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, thank you for the time you are giving me to speak. Yesterday I was present and I was here until the last moment, when the sitting was closed, while other colleagues were engaged in the Commissions, and I assure you that I do not mind hearing reasons for or against the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u91	This is the seed of democracy. So let's all hear it, but then we'll vote. [[Ironic applause from Senators Airola and Crimes.]] AIROLA (M5S). Those words mark us! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). That's the way it is. That's the way it is, until someone changes it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u93	You have the floor, but I ask you not to take advantage of the time I give you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u94	Barani (GAL). From the Rules of Procedure, I know the times of my group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay, but... I am here for a truthful operation, Mr Casson, because Mr Casson cannot tell the House lies. In the Commission, where we were all there, the general debate was closed and the Democratic Group did not table any amendments (only colleagues from the 5 Star Movement did so), which means that it shared the text approved by the House. We have to say that. So, after more than a week that was the measure being fired by the House and that the President had granted the Commission the deliberating seat, there was a reconsideration. This is an objective rethink: only animals do not change their opinion. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Even donkeys! Barani (GAL). Yeah, donkeys, too. I also have the pink Gronchi in my hand, i.e. a bill signed by the leader Zanda and all the Senators of the Democratic Party Group that takes up exactly the text of the House! So either you tell this House that you were wrong and that you presented a bill that you immediately withdrew because you were ashamed of it, or you say that someone pressured you, which I think was non-political, on a text that was widely shared by the House and also in the Commission, since the amendments were tabled only by my 5 Star Movement colleagues. The text was presented by the group leader and then withdrawn after a few days, but the copy remained, because the "Pink Gronchi" (I am a collector of stamps, like my colleague Giovanardi) we have it. Mr Casson, the truth must be said: you wanted to break the united front of the Mafia's struggle. We think differently. We want the adverb 'consciously', you do not, also because we do not have an objective judiciary, but a politicized judiciary that looks only in one area and not in all areas. [[Comments from the PD Group]] However, it is a spinning wheel: then it can happen to you and to my fellow rapporteur of the measure on the civil liability of magistrates...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u95	Senator Barani, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u96	[[Applause from Senator Puglia]] Barani (GAL). We shall therefore vote consciously in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u99	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, in the last three explanations of vote I have heard once, out of pure modesty, how it would be voted on; in the other two it was a speech that did not even make it clear what would have been voted on. Since we are in the process of explanation of vote, I would ask Members to be kind enough to say what they intend to vote on, otherwise it will again become a general debate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u102	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking as an observer, in the sense that I have never attended a meeting of the Justice Commission. It seems to me that the Senate today is split between majority, minority, opposition and that a typical Commission job is being done. I briefly reconstruct the history of this provision. You granted the deliberative to the Justice Commission on a text approved by the House. Then, in the course of the debate there, changes were made. We then arrived at a text which was no longer voted on in the deliberative vote, but which has returned to the Chamber, where today we are, all in all, retracing the debate that was held in the Commission, with a clear split also in the majority. Reading the amendments in their content, beyond the form, it is understood that the central point concerns the words "consciousness" and "consciously" (whether it is noun or adverb, this is what we are talking about). Now I propose to you, Mr President, also for the economy of the work of this House: is it not worth returning to the Commission in order to resolve the needs of all political forces in that forum, a problem which I have the impression today is difficult to solve? [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In fact, if the problem was not solved there, it will certainly be even more difficult to solve here. I turn to the forces of the majority: it seems to me that it is an act of evaluating the economy of our work, since we also have other things to do today. Mr President, consider the proposal. I turn to the Groups: it seems to me to be a proposal of reasonableness, with which perhaps we could come to a definition. I have the feeling - and I say this also - that even within the largest party of the majority some small uncertainty on the subject can and should be there (it seems to me that we are talking about a very normal thing). It seems to me that this can be the best solution, which can be met by some political forces of the majority and which could probably better resolve this measure in the economy of our work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u105	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1.5. We will vote against, as a Group of the Democratic Party, for the reasons that have already been expressed - as Senator Barani says - also during the meetings of the Commission on 8 August and 22 July 2013, of which I have here the shorthand reports. I would like to remind you of what I said to this proposal on 8 August:'(...) our thoughts, already expressed not during this phase of general discussion, but in the initial and preliminary moments of the debate on this subject. I would like to make this point in order to remind everyone that these assessments were carried out before the public controversy broke out in the newspapers, precisely because those considerations arose from the awareness of the inadequacy of the rule that was about to be adopted (...) in the Chamber of Deputies. It is the shorthand report No. 10 - I remember it for Senator Barani - of August 8, 2013. What did we say, as the report shows, on July 22nd? We contested exactly the points that were the subject of the amendment of the text arrived from the Chamber (Stenographic Report No. 3, sitting No. 27 of July 22, 2013). These are the points that are incorporated into the norm that is being proposed to the Senate vote at this time. It is reiterated, therefore, that when we consider ourselves to be such sensitive issues, our vision, as a Democratic Party, was to think of an efficient fight against organised crime of a mafia nature. The changes we have brought to the Commission are also confirmed in this House, because the proposed amendments would be a retrograde to that text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u108	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, not for an explanation of vote. I believe, in the light of Senator Casson's statements, that it is probably appropriate to remind the House of the path that this measure has taken in the Commission. I report the facts as neutral as possible. This measure, voted unanimously in the Chamber, was assigned to the Justice Commission in a deliberating session. In that place, even with criticism of the House's text from several quarters, the general discussion was in the sense of launching the text of the House. It is true that I opened the stage of the amendments and amendments - if I recall correctly - were tabled only and exclusively by the 5 Star Movement. The text launched by the House was identical to another text presented to the Senate by the Democratic Party Group. The amendment phase therefore ended without amendments by political forces, with the exception of the 5 Star Movement. Afterwards, the Democratic Party withdrew the bill that had a wording identifying the one launched by the Chamber and was presented with other text signed by Senator Lumia and other senators. The general discussion was reopened, at the request of the political forces, and then, at the request of five senators of the Justice Commission, the deliberating seat was revoked and the referee was moved to the office with resumption of the acts in order to speed up. The points we are debating today are the same as those discussed in the Commission. You will excuse me, Senator Giarrusso, if I remind you that having dealt with points in the Commission does not constitute foreclosure to re-address the same points in this House. Then, during the amendment phase, the Groups tabled their amendments, until one was tabled, by several political party forces, by which the rule was formulated exactly as it appears in the text adopted by the Commission. This amendment - and I finish the summary that I thought was useful to bring to the attention of the House - did not find unanimity in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u110	Senator Mussolini, do you speak in an explanation of vote? Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1.5 and the following. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 51 of the Constitution, men and women speak. I would like to ask the illustrious magistrates for the authentic interpretation, with determination, of the difference between awareness and dole. That is the point, and President Romani's request is on that. We are called upon to adopt a law, we are legislators, and I have not heard from the illustrious magistrates a clarification, an authentic interpretation, which is necessary when a law is enacted. On this point, the awareness in what way do we want to determine it?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u111	We greet the students of the Istituto Commerciale "Lorenzo Guetti" in Tione di Trento, who follow our work and this interesting debate that is taking place. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u114	D'ASCOLA (NCD). Mr President, I rise above all with regard to the need for the politician to be fully aware of the need to agree with a person qualified as a member of a mob organization. I would like to clarify the terms of the matter, at least in my humble opinion. There is no doubt that we can only talk about an exchange vote provided that the politician is fully aware of the agreement with a mobster; if someone thinks otherwise, that would be to say that Parliament punishes for an exchange vote a politician who makes an agreement with a subject that he does not even know how to be a mobster. We must then start from a certain point of departure: the qualification of a person belonging to a criminal organization, of a mafia nature to use equivalent terminology, is a prerequisite of the norm we are discussing. Now, starting from this sure assumption (because otherwise 416-b would be applied where it can certainly not be applied, it would be a further and dramatic limitation of the freedom of political activity) it is to be said that the adverb "consciously" used in the text of the House, certainly wanted to make the idea of a full awareness of the politician about the subjective and personal qualification of the subject with whom he made the agreement. To tell the truth, the adverb "consciously" did not clarify the object of consciousness and, for this reason, could seem critical because it replicated the inevitably arsonous nature of a crime that, as such, is arson by law. Formulas, on the contrary, like that used by Senator Albertini and that proposed by Senator Caliendo, according to which one should say "anyone, certain of the personal qualities or conditions of the one with whom he accords, accepts the promise" are absolutely clear what is a prerequisite of punishableness. Since Parliament cannot think of punishing - this must be said without any hesitation - the person who politically makes an agreement with a person whom he can estimate to be any subject, to make it absolutely clear that there are no doubts in the course of the preliminary investigations, when a protective custody order is issued, that this is an unavoidable assumption of punishableness could be considered ultraroneo by an act of faith consisting in saying that no one would ever dream of asserting the risk of a protective custody order if the politician was not really certain that he had entered into an agreement with a mafia. The clarifying provisions in the field of the application of a criminal law sacrificing personal freedom and, therefore, those parts of the rule that may seem repetitive but clarify and avoid an offense to personal freedom are, however, desirable, Senators. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Albertini]] We can therefore think of such a provision as to create a guarantee for all and to avoid errors in the application of the norm, especially in the stage of protective custody. I am sure that no court will condemn one who thought he had agreed with a plumber and did not know the subjective quality of his interlocutor, but because the process is going through stages in which the deepening of evidence is not taken for granted, such as that of preliminary investigations, then to include a requirement, whether superfluous but clarifying and safeguarding personal freedom, and which would guarantee Parliament's political unity, and a provision which does not offend the House of Members, which that intention had made clear, even if with an adverb that perhaps had to be changed, I believe it is a hope that anyone, regardless of their political position of belonging, should make their own. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Stefani and Mr Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u117	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, on a brief point of order, Senator Romani, the leader of the major opposition group, has just made a request for suspension under the first paragraph of Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure. You know very well, Mr President, that, as a rule, the issue must be raised before the general debate begins. You will also know very well that the President has the right, however, to admit it in the course of the debate, if the presentation is justified by new elements which emerged after the beginning of the debate. I know how much you, Mr President, are opposed to practice, but it seems to me that this morning the practice has already overshadowed your conviction a little; for example, you said that the President did not vote in practice. Again in practice, when this request was asked authoritatively by the President of the Opposition Majority Group, at least he would have deserved the satisfaction of clarifying why the Presidency does not consider it to be acceptable. It is clear, among other things, that the Presidency has behaved, because it has given the opportunity to speak for an explanation of vote in relation to President Romani's request. Mr President, I would like to add my request to that of President Romani. Even if my group is not the largest opposition group, although I still have a large part of the opposition, I renew the request: can the President, given the difficulty with which the House is trying to settle an important and fundamental issue of the measure, try to understand whether the majority, namely President Zanda but also Senator Casson and others, and the opinion of postponing, admitting the suspensive issue, the measure in the Commission? If the Presidency does not intend to do so, will you tell us why? [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u118	Senator Ferrara, I promised to have the debate completed and to ask the rapporteur, who is the dominus of what was fired by the Commission, what his opinion is on the request for referral back to the Commission. Then, the President will unappellably decide, not on the basis of the Rule you referred to, but on Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure, because we are at a different stage. FERRARA Mario (GAL). No, Mr President, I beg to differ. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, it doesn't matter. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the request for the draft law to be referred back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u119	Mr President, I believe there are conditions for moving forward. On the other hand, we are in an amending phase, so any problems can be accepted, if properly supported.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u122	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to speak on Senator Romani's request. It should be remembered that one of his fellow members of the Justice Commission, whose work Senator Romani himself had to say he did not know the progress, was one of the five members of the Commission who requested the revocation of the decision-making office. It is therefore paradoxical that today in this Chamber we are asking that the draft law be returned to the Commission, after the same political force as Senator Romani - who, unfortunately, is not listening to me - has asked for the revocation of the deliberating seat. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Our opinion on the request is therefore in line with that of the rapporteur, i.e. against regression in the Commission. To the esteemed colleague who spoke just now, Senator D'Ascola, perhaps it is necessary to remember, by rereading the text dismissed by the Chamber, that in that version the adverb was consciously referring to acceptance, not already to the subjective qualities of the interlocutor. It was therefore a completely different, critiqueable intervention plan, but that "consciously" had nothing to do with what Senator Caliendo and the others are talking about today, that is, the need for the psychological element of the awareness that the person you are facing is a referent or a member of a mob association. I would also like to ask all my colleagues a question. We wonder why there is so much concern that this rule can be applied distortedly, that it may hinder the next election campaigns for the renewal of this or other House. Why do you not ask yourself, colleagues in the centre-right, why are there other Members of Parliament, such as those of the Group of which I am a member, who do not seem to have this concern at all? Why? I'd like to invite you to an analysis. Will it be because of our political and campaign inexperience? But why aren't we afraid to meet up with a crazy magistrate who can investigate us or who can ask for a precautionary measure against us? [[Senator Mussolini's comments.]] "Male not to do and fear not to have, I suggest colleagues close to me. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In short, let's be clear: you who have experience - many of you even over a decade - of electoral campaigns, you know very well and you are perfectly able to understand who is the person who is in front of you and who shows up with the white collar, absolutely without any lupara or coppola in the head. We believe that you are perfectly able to distinguish it. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] It would be nice if you listened to me, colleagues. The rule punishes those who accept the promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures laid down in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] So, Senator Caliendo, what must we be afraid of? [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] Senator Caliendo, we have had the pleasure and the opportunity to discuss so many times in the Commission, so I would invite you to meditate for a moment on what I am saying. [[Senator Caliendo's lively comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u123	Senator Caliendo, please allow Senator Buccarella to complete his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u124	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, frankly, I didn't mean to make anyone nervous. In any case, even as profanes, without being lawyers or legal practitioners more or less refined, we would like to invite colleagues again to analyze the situation. I wonder whether tomorrow, if I were to face another election campaign - which is all to be seen - bearing in mind this rule, I should be concerned that a magistrate or someone might say that I have consciously accepted the adoption of votes in the manner provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. I think that the approach to the election campaign can be achieved in perfect serenity and in compliance with the rule we are examining. As I said, the procedure provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a is clearly mentioned. This is not about the exchange of votes already regulated and punished by other case obviously, but about the perfectly intuitable relationship between the criminal powers of the mafia associations and the political candidate. We therefore invite our colleagues to share with us serenely the approval of a rule of this kind which, within the limits of human possibilities of making mistakes on the part of all - including magistrates, for goodness sake! - You shouldn't be so scared. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u126	He has the right, as President of the Commission, to do so exclusively on the subject of referral back to the Commission, as requested by Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u127	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since you have given the floor to the rapporteur, I would remind you that the rapporteur represents the Commission as much as he represents the President. I would therefore just like to make my assessment, as you have allowed the rapporteur to do, and be assured that I will not enter into political matters. I would like to say something very simple to this House. A politician, on the basis of money, accepts votes or promises of votes by a particular subject; this case is currently punished by Article 96 of the Single Text of the electoral laws and by Article 416-b. The fact is the same: what changes between the two cases? The awareness of the methods of obtaining the vows and the subjective quality of whom those vows obtain. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]] What I would then like to ask the House, why have we been talking for a long time, is: what does it cost to make clear the distinction between two identical criminal cases on an objective level and which find their penal differentiation only with regard to the awareness of the nature and the mafiosa qualification of the procacciator and the methods of obtaining those votes? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u129	Senator Di Maggio, do you intend to speak on this issue or by explanation of vote? IN MAY (PI). On this subject, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I find today's debate extremely interesting. By making my own all the observations of Senator Casson (according to whom we are faced with a rule that, by foreseeing the dole, makes awareness almost superfluous), I believe that the fundamental problem today to our attention - I think an adverb never found much consideration - must place a series of reflections that I would like to bring to the attention of colleagues, also in response to some of the observations made by the Senator of the 5 Star Movement. Montesquieu warned that jurisdiction is the system to find the way in which the law is applied and, therefore, being a power that can take away a person's freedom, it is considered a terrible power. Having said that, I believe that never as at this moment are we taking over the primacy of politics and, therefore, the system of law-making. In view of this, the adverb that we intend to put into this article basically leads to what? Perhaps to place a limit on the discretion of the judge, which until now - I must say - is not that he has given great evidence in keeping the jurisdiction within the limits that the law establishes. Having said that, I think it is extremely important that we do not divide ourselves in this House on such a central issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u130	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Therefore, I believe it is essential that we get a unanimous vote simply to prevent someone from being given anti-mafia professional licences. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u132	Senator Lumia, do you intend to speak on the matter of referral back to the Commission? LUMIA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to explain why we are opposed to the return of the measure to the Commission. I think it has been very useful to discuss here, also in this House, the issues we are dealing with and, in particular, the issue of awareness. When faced with very sensitive issues, the House must have the opportunity and the time, according to the Rules of Procedure, to return to the issues dealt with in the Commission and must have the opportunity to discuss, deepen and verify whether there are the conditions for sharing a choice that, in this case, is very delicate. We are faced, Mr President, with an opportunity to give a positive turn to our code to attack an issue on which there is so much expectation; we all know how decisive it is to strike the mafia when it is manifested in the relationship with politics, and at the same time, as delicate and spring of representation, of electoral consultations. Mr President, why are we against returning to the Commission? Attention, I say here, with much intellectual honesty, that there is no division, in my opinion, on the question of awareness. I repeat: there can be no division. Why? In the text currently in force of article 416-b it is established that the penalty established by article 416-bis, paragraph 1 (so we speak of 416-bis and of Mafia association), applies also to those who obtain the promise of votes provided for in the same article 416-bis, paragraph 3. I remind everyone that it is important to refer to paragraph 3, of article 416-bis, that is to say to the mafia-type association, which exists when those who are part of it make use of the force of intimidation of the associative bond and the condition of subjection and of omerty that derives from it to commit crimes etc. Then, in order to be self-righteous, we all know that there must be awareness: there is no malice without awareness. Awareness is not ultronea, it is not indirect, it is not an aspect that the PM must derive when it is to issue an order and the judge when it is to evaluate its proposal: it is a structural element to the dole. Very good: then the procedures laid down in Article 416-a must provide that one is aware first of all of the association that has these characteristics and, in addition, to commit crimes, to acquire directly or indirectly the management or in any case control of economic activities, concessions, authorizations, contracts and public services or to achieve unjust profits or advantages for himself or for others or to prevent or hinder the free exercise of the vote or to obtain votes for himself or others during electoral consultations. So this is what has been planned and is currently in force. What has the House of Deputies done? I would like to address the Senator Romani group leader: I know that he has not followed the work, but those who have done so know that. It is not true that the Chamber has foreseen an element of awareness in reference to the subject of the association.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u133	[[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] That's not true. What does the House say? The House says: "Anyone who consciously accepts the taking of votes in accordance with the procedures provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a (...)... The Chamber always refers to article 416- bis, third paragraph, so that, from this point of view, it has not changed anything. Have we, in the Senate, foreseen what in the Committee on Justice, which we are now proposing in this House? We propose the following: "Anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedure laid down in the third paragraph of Article 416-a (...)." Once again it is necessary, structurally, to foresee, because it is so and cannot be different, that the subject who enters into relation through the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of that article must be aware of the association and the modalities that we have described before. [[Comments of Senator Malan]] The House, from this point of view, does not correspond to the requests that many of you have in this advanced forum. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] They are requests that can insert a different element in the code, and why this? It is like saying, ladies and gentlemen, that we would never draw up a rule where it is written that democracy is democratic. We would never draw up a rule where it is written that freedom is free. We would never draw up a standard where it is written that man is human. If we insert, and we don't want to be ridiculous, something different, it's because to something different we want to give a different meaning. So, if we insert "consciously" it is because we want to change the nature of the dole, referred to in Article 43 of the Criminal Code. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] So, we want to say something different that we have never predicted for any crime so far. We should therefore say that, for this kind of crime, the nature of the dole changes, and we should venture into a field where - yes - the discretion of the magistrate becomes central. In fact, we would change a general principle of the law, on which even we could hardly stand a first assessment of the Constitutional Court. In any case, we would hand ourselves over to the arbitrariness of those - magistrates - who could interfere in the political life of an electoral moment. That is why we are leaving with a good intention, but it could go back to a question which is paradoxically likely to create more damage and be a boomerang than those who have expressed legitimate concerns and raised issues which we have heard with interest in this House. That is why, Mr President, I think this debate is useful. Trouble making shoulder pads and getting annoyed. We have the regulatory arrangements for deepening and deciding, as is the case in all democratic parliaments. [[Applause from Senators Albano and Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u136	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to address the question of referral back to the Commission, but I would also refer to paragraph 11 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that: In the interests of discussion, the President may decide on the provision and referral back to the competent Commission of individual articles and amendments thereto..................................................................................................................................... I am truly appealing to you, on the basis of this paragraph which you yourself referred to, because, knowing your sensitivity and your direct commitment in this regard, I think you can identify the terms of the problem that have been raised in the debate so far. The search on the part of all to isolate more organized crime than its recurring temptations to infiltrate the public dimension and, in particular, the political-representative dimension, the need, on the other hand, to avoid that reckless initiatives, which have sometimes been produced and which were mentioned earlier by many colleagues who have spoken, must not in any way spoil a political confrontation that we all want more serene and, at the same time, the furthest away from the criminal phenomenon. So why not allow research at home, even in a short time, even in a very short time, for a shared solution that would have the political significance that others have emphasized, namely the unity of Parliament? Unity with regard not only, of course, to the mafia phenomenon, but also to political action as transparent as can be and must be produced even in the presence of the return to that vote of preference that we want, because we know how much society must reunite with the institutions, or rather, how much institutions must be reunited with society, also through the possibility of voters choosing directly the elected and not entrusting them to the appointment of some political elites. For this reason, by combining the ongoing legislative process to change the electoral law with the needs that have emerged here, we must return briefly to the Commission, either on its own initiative or on the joint initiative of the House. But I appeal above all to his initiative, to his high function, to his sensitivity to this problem, to his awareness of all the implications of the decisions that we are here to take. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u137	As we cannot move forward, I suspend the work of the House and immediately convene a meeting of the Heads of Group. We will then resume our work after the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups. The sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12.25 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u138	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Last 20 January, at the age of eighty, after suffering illness, Claudio Abbado, one of the greatest and most innovative conductors of the twentieth century, star at the highest level of music, culture and civil society. His life is in the sign of art, understood not as an exercise and elite manifestation of innate talent, but as a tireless search for the meaning of existence and sense of ethics, as a gift to others, as a civil commitment. Claudio is with us all. He left for the mysterious journey. Let us draw close to his lucky life, so his sons Daniele, Alessandra, Sebastian and Misha announced the death of his father. His earthly existence was also a journey, to decode the mystery and carry his magic everywhere. A journey started as a child. He was born in Milan in 1933 in a family where music and culture were at home: his father, Michelangelo, was a violin teacher at the prestigious Conservatory "Giuseppe Verdi" in Milan where he was later assistant director; his mother, Maria Carmela Savagnone, was a pianist and writer for children. He decides to hold the wand to seven years, when, as he has remembered several times in these days, he climbs up to the loggia to see the gestures of the conductor Antonio Guarnieri: from there on, a life of study, of commitment to crown his dream, which will take him to the podium of the most prestigious orchestras in the world. He became in 1968, at the age of 35, musical director of the Teatro alla Scala. During a period of profound cultural changes he was able to interpret the spirit of time admirably, with great foresight, revolutionizing the Scala repertoire; directing unforgettable shows with the direction of Strehler and Ronconi; bringing music to the factories and opening the Scala, with the complicity of Paolo Grassi, to students and workers to share with as many people as possible his love for music, which he considered a good of all. As a dreamer he managed to unite Europe before the fall of the Berlin Wall, founding in 1978 the Youth Orchestra of the European Community, in which he managed to play young musicians of the two Germanies, Soviets, Italians, French and Poles. The world of music has exalted its unmistakable style, severe and passionate at the same time, and its style, resulting from the immediacy of intuition and character, has become the "Abbado method." He was a tireless perfectionist, who asked his orchestrals to repeat, again and again, to seek and find not only the way of music, but above all why. The technique was in him a whole with what we could call musical ontology today. All this revealed a deep spirituality, capable of looking beyond, far away, and that is not limited to a professionalism, so to speak, executive. It is precisely in that going far that the extraordinary journey of his journey is reflected: seeking through music the soul and harmony of the world and, at the same time, instilling in that world a soul, a thought, a vision. Claudio Abbado did not consider music as private property, but as a heritage of all, to be delivered to everyone, to be preserved for everyone. His was a totalizing perspective: music was food and understanding of his existence, but also the instrument of participation in the collective life of his time. I have always been convinced that music contains in itself a force that can cross the borders. There is not only an aesthetic value in making music: music is necessary for man's civil life. These were his words when, in 2005, he directed the Orchestra Mozart of Bologna, founded by him, for the prisoners of the prison and for the assistants of Caritas. He took concerts to factories, schools, hospitals, looking for the marginalized, the last. In 2004 he promoted the birth of the Orchestra Mozart in Bologna; in Caracas and Havana, in 2005, he began to make music with the Orchestra "Simon Bolivar," whose activity is part of the initiative in which thousands of young musicians are involved, many coming from poor and degraded contexts, which is given the opportunity to receive a musical education and above all a chance of redemption and hope, thus saving thousands and thousands of young people. The spirit of the "Sistema" was born in Venezuela with Josè Antonio Abreu, thanks to him also in Italy and right here in the Senate, for the Christmas concert, we were able to listen to the skill, enthusiasm, commitment and I would say almost the happiness of his musicians, the choir of white voices, the choir of white hands. In dialogue with young people, he leaves his legacy deeper. I quote his words: "Listening to one another is the key. In orchestra as in life. His music, founded on listening to one another, shows us the path of a civil community where taking one another becomes an essential ethical necessity and instance. In the memory that Master Antonio Pappano wrote about him there is confirmation of his love for young people and of how much he could forge his passion, art and character: Claudio Abbado's light will remain. I see them working in the orchestra, the musicians he has formed. They're all over the world. If you look well, you can distinguish them, they carry in their face and eyes the legacy of their teacher. They are proud to have grown up with him, and this pride, full of commitment and seriousness, transfer it to their making music. The appointment as a senator for life represents the recognition of its highest artistic, civil, cultural, human and, even more, the sign of those who have brought with grace, with pride Italy in its best expression in Europe and in the world. Now the art of Claudio Abbado remains a heritage of everyone and for everyone. I am sure then in this spirit of expressing the emotional feeling of the whole Assembly in turning to the family and to all those who have known him the feeling of affectionate closeness and emotional gratitude of the Senate of the Republic, at the moment when we pay homage to a great man, to an immense artist. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection in his honour. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Live, prolonged applause.]] We thank the grandchildren Tommaso and Francesca Abbado for their presence in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u141	PLAN (Mixed). Mr President, mine can only be the testimony of a friend. Claudio left us Monday morning, three days ago, and a week ago we were still talking about the Senate, about his Senate project. It is a friendship in life that began in the early 1960s in Milan. We were young rebels (I was a little younger), and since then we haven't been lost. I was going to his house, I was friends with his brother Gabriel, we were students of architecture, he was a musician. We met in Paris when we built IRCAM, the center for music research, together with Pierre Boulez and Luciano Berio. There we met Gigi Nono, with whom we made the Prometheus in Venice. It was a sequence, we made it - as they say - of all colors. Then we found ourselves in Berlin, he ran the Berliner Philharmoniker, I had the Potsdamer Platz construction site. He crossed the road, Potsdamer Strasse, towards the construction site and I crossed it towards the Philharmonic, and it was a continuous harmony. Then we met many other times after Berlin: at the Lingotto in Turin, in Rome, together with Luciano Berio. We did a little thing for L'Aquila a few years ago, where we found each other. It was a constant reunion. There is a sort of complicity between the musician and the architect, between those who compose working with the most immaterial and lightest material that exists, that is the sound, and those who build instead. There is complicity and there is also a sort of affectionate envy of the intellectual, poet, musician towards the builder and vice versa; the builder who works with such a heavy material, in fact, almost envies the material with which the musician works. When the architect then loves music and the musician loves architecture, then it's done. It was a constant trespassing. I don't want to bore you with biographical matters. That is why I feel at the same time sad and honoured to speak for the first time in this House about a missing friend. However, I would like to stress something important. The 1960s were extraordinary. The Paris Sixty-eight took place only eight years later, but it was completely different. In fact, in the 1960s, in Milan, we lived an extraordinary season. He thought about music, he built music, everything became music in everyday life: even the lunch salad became music, everything became music. In my little one, everything became architecture for me. There was a sort of absolutely sublime, total obstinacy: the energy went all in becoming musicians. However, there was what was then called the anxiety of social: nothing of that extraordinary experience, which was making music or making architecture (in my little one), was separated from society, from militancy, from passion, from the impossible idea of changing the world with music. That is the important thing. For this reason, he has always worked, together with music, together with this wonderful art, so extraordinary and so poetic with society: music as a ransom for prisoners, music as a way to take the kids off the street. For this reason, he worked with Abreu and occasionally disappeared and went to Venezuela. There has always been an extraordinary consonance between his civic, civic, and music. Because in those years, we were all born like this, we grew up like this, and he grew up amazingly in this way. It is in this context that he invented a beautiful thing: the Mozart Orchestra. It is an extraordinary invention: it is an orchestra that is structured every time. Joking, I always said to him: for you Mozart is like the palette of a painter, you are like Paul Klee. On the palette he had the colors, and, depending on how he turned and how he was supposed to perform a certain concert, he took it from the palette. Mozart is an extraordinary invention: it must be saved. With Mozart he performed concerts, like what we did at L'Aquila. He always asked me to help him with crazy projects. That was crazy, but we did. It was a small, very small wooden building, where he did something extraordinary: he called from Mozart the right people to perform that concert. He's always been like this every time. I stress this because the Mozart Orchestra must be saved. Now I want to close, because I don't want to take time at your testimonies, more important. All this flows into a particular moment. One day he called me and said, "Let's be senators for life." It was a blow, because neither of us - I'm an architect, he was a musician - had ever thought about it. We wondered, and we wondered until a few days ago, how to make ourselves useful as senators for life. Well, Claudio has always been convinced of one thing, that beauty, art, culture - not the swamped one, the one with the capital C, but that of every day, made of curiosity, exploration and research - make people better. Have you ever noticed that this lights a particular light in people's eyes, the light of curiosity? He has always been convinced of one very important thing, of which I too am convinced: beauty will save the world, and it will save one person at a time. Yeah, one person at a time, but he'll save him. This is really important, and that is why he had a fixed idea that I want to propose to this House: teaching music in Italian schools. [[General applause]] Thank you. I'm sure this applause is listening. [[Applause.]] All schools in Europe teach music. My 14 - year - old son goes to school in Paris, where he teaches music. But is it possible that we, in Italy, do not teach music? It doesn't take anything, you have to do it, because beauty is an extraordinary garden, but it has to be frequented as children. It must be taught immediately, as long as they are small, because then, when you become great, insensitive to beauty, it seems something foreign, that no longer belongs to us, we do not care. Instead, it is precisely what kindles desires, which gives us energy. The idea of teaching music to children is an extraordinary, simple idea. I ask you therefore (I will continue to do so, this work, and I will continue to ask) - also because he, like me, has always had a great deal of consideration for the Senate: this is the Upper House, these ideas are born and must find strength in this place - to listen to this desire, because it will take some time, but this will make our country better. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u144	MONTI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my fellow Members of Civic Choice for Italy, I would also like to associate myself with the emotional tribute that the Senate gives to Master Claudio Abbado today. I did not have the same personal knowledge as the one we remember today, who had Senator Piano or here, Mrs Ilaria Borletti Buitoni, of whom I would like to quote a few sentences in a memory of Claudio Abbado who wanted to release in recent days: He left a school, interior as well as technically impeccable, which is perceived when listening to musicians who come from the orchestras, many, that he created. There will be a huge lack of music and culture that unstoppable need to go all the way to the knowledge of the composers who performed until they wanted to neglect even one aspect, which he could translate into an unexpected and miraculous coloration for his listeners. Ilaria Borletti recalls the phrase she heard from Claudio Abbado when she telephoned him, just named senator for life: We must save music in Italy and we must see ourselves, now that I am in Parliament, to make proposals for music. "Well, unfortunately," concludes Ilaria Borletti, "it was too late." I do not think it is too late, and the reflection that I would like to make very briefly, Mr President, concerns the fate of Claudio Abbado - a fate of sadness, which perhaps makes him even brighter - in his relationship with the Senate. He reached us here among the last and was the first to leave us: it can be said that the relationship between him and the Senate has remained in the potential state, but I think it is much more so. In fact, Claudio Abbado has transmitted to us for many years with great modesty the intensity of his lesson, but from other podiums and from other areas, on various themes that this Senate discusses in its intense activity for the development of our country. I would like to use only two examples: in our country and in this House we often debate the deep and fruitful relationship, but certainly at times problematic, that exists between Italy and Germany. In the same way, we often ask ourselves in this House and in our country: We have the Europe of the economy, of the currency and of the constraints, but where is that of culture, of emotions and of young people? Well, Claudio Abbado has told us a lot in both respects. When he left "La Scala" - unfortunately, I say from Milan - after a short period in Vienna, he went to Berlin to conduct the most prestigious orchestra in the world. An extraordinary challenge, to succeed the greatest director of all time, von Karajan, and to confront his myth, Furtwängler. The Berliner Philharmoniker wanted him at their head for 12 years and, as a huge personal acknowledgment, Furtwängler's widow wrote him a letter to invite him, as her husband's successor, to take his home to live there. Here is an Italian who has conquered Germany with modesty and who has given great light to his country, even in that context. But where are the emotions, culture and young people in Europe? There is the extraordinary experience of the European Union Youth Orchestra, which - the curiosity of history - was established in 1976 for a British idea - this can happen too - and of which Claudio Abbado was the first musical director for 18 years, from 1976 to 1994. It was fascinated - since it was one of the greatest orchestras he had created, usually aimed at young people - also with reference to his selection mechanism. This is another aspect very much related to the issues we are debating in this House: the members of this Youth Orchestra are selected each year from about 4,000 candidates, aged between 14 and 24, who take part in hearings throughout the European Union. So this is very, very selective evidence. Finally, one joins this European Union Youth Orchestra. And what happens to the young member of this Youth Orchestra of the European Union (and it was an aspect to which Claudio Abbado cared very much)? Each year those who were already part of the orchestra had to stand up to a competitive process with those who applied to enter. No stabilisation. No ope ligis stay. This is how art, culture and music can indicate interesting principles also for the activities of those who hold, as politician, the civil community. The figure of Claudio Abbado must, at the moment of this memory, fill all of us senators with pride for having been, unfortunately only for a few months, colleagues of a personality, of a man that the Head of State wanted to associate with the Senate of the Republic, colleagues of a great absent colleague of ours, forced to the absence, first from illness, now, forever, from death, but that I believe forever will illuminate the work of this House, not for his speeches - not even one of the fates allowed him to keep here - but for his example. The example of a life. The example of the life of a great citizen of Italy, Europe and world culture. A very high example of which the life of the Senate will be nourished in the future, which even in the memory of Claudio Abbado will continue to be, I am convinced, whatever the specific competence of the Senate in the constitutional design in the future, the Upper House of the Italian Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u147	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the disappearance of Claudio Abbado strikes us. It strikes us with a heavy grieving. It saddens us as an Assembly to which it has honoured, as President Monti has rightly pointed out, even with the great opportunity we have had to share with him this responsibility and the opportunity to follow the example of man, man of art, culture and thought. A great man of philanthropic sensitivity. But the aspect that I want to remember is the direct contribution that has given his thought to the vision of culture, which is an instrument of freedom and defence of democracy. I do not add elements of the biography, which have already been abundantly offered to the attention of this House. Instead, I emphasize the ability, his face and his sensitivity. Those who knew Claudio Abbado well know that he emphasized his great value of being able to see the potential of the people he had next door, of the boys he knew how to mix together, of the talents he pulled out of the favelas, from the various barrios, in his Venezuelan and multicultural experience. A much greater contribution than what he has already given to contemporary music as a great teacher. For us, and better than us, I would like to recall the last tribute in applause - over thirty minutes: an infinite tribute - that Master Abbado, Senator Abbado, collected at the last concert in Vienna. But with his words I would like to stress the thought of a man so important in contemporary history, to whom I believe each of us should be inspired, as President Monti has pointed out, in the exercise of our responsibility. I remember - and I found it in a video - an interview that Abbado released in Fazio in 2010, entrusting us with a decalogue, which is the main road we should always move towards. Professor Abbado recalled on that occasion what culture is. "Culture always enriches (...)." - these are his words - "Culture allows us to overcome all the limits (...). Those who love culture want to know all cultures, so it is against racism (...). Culture is against vulgarity (...). Culture is the tool for judging even those who govern us (...). Culture is freedom of expression and speech (...). Culture saves (...) " - because it heals us -. The culture defeats the social hardship of people: it is the ransom from poverty (...). Culture is a primary common good such as water (...). Culture is like life, and life is beautiful. This is the decalogue that from that interview it seemed possible to pull out as a teaching of a man, of an artist of great sensitivity, which reminds us that the only instrument of freedom, of defense of democracy and of respect among people remains culture. [[Applause from the LAG and M5S groups and Senator Piano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u150	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, representatives of the government, senators, the Abbado family, the artistic history of the master and senator for life is history characterized by indissoluble union with a social, civil and therefore passionate political commitment. Just remember the concerts in the factories in Milan in the sixties and seventies, the prisoners, the less well-off social classes, the indefatigable commitment to train young people, to empower them, to encourage them. I would like to submit to the House another reading, starting from the symbolism of its artistic dimension. In Abbado music is not only an expression of sensitivity, not only a virtuous representation of an aesthetic feeling: it is manifestation, an epiphany of interiority; it is the vocabulary of the soul as its extension, which opens, through the immanence of the notes, to the infinite interiority of everyone, therefore universal. Master Abbado, the Senator for Life Abbado is in earthly silence, but his notes and music enliven this silence. It has been said that directing is not a matter of histrion. On the contrary, it is fatigue, anxiety, anguish, doubt; I would also say, tireless study, tireless application. In the symbolism of orchestration, that is the conductor, made by a teacher such as Abbado was and is, it is evident the research, in the rigor of the method, aimed at representing musical harmony. I would like to say, even better, the artistic grandeur of Abbado is mentioned in the musical representation of a harmony that fascinates and involves, amazes and interrogates. What do we mean by musical harmony in the symbolism of Abbado's work? Is this harmony the foundation of happiness? Or is harmony happiness? Or is this harmony merely contentment, cultural or psychological and emotional? What then is the symbolism of Abbado's work as a research and representation of musical harmony? In Abbado, as in the other masters of his level, one tries to achieve harmony through the golden rule, which the master himself recalled, of mutual listening. I allow myself to go even further in hearing to say that in Abbado it is not mutual listening, but it is mutual hearing: listening is mechanistic dimension, bodily dimension, but feeling is psychic and spiritual dimension. What then is the symbolism of mutual feeling in the work of Abbado, which translates into the political dimension? The symbolism of mutual feeling in the teacher is represented precisely by its consultation. The secret of his punctual work of conciliation could be described: with his gaze, with a smile or with an imperceptible nod of the hand, he invited the first violins to listen to the flutes, the cellos to follow the line of clarinets, the double basses to wait for the sound of the brass. And vice versa. Exactly as is done in the noble and ancient practice of musicians, of making music together. This is precisely the symbolism that we can draw from the feeling together of Master Abbado, so virtuously represented in his works that we must gather the message, the warning, I would finally say the pedagogy aimed at the democratic construction of society that is based precisely on common feeling and mutual feeling. This is the great message and I believe that this is the pedagogy that has been transmitted to us by the artistic work of master Claudio Abbado. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u153	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed family members, in remembering Claudio Abbado today, it would be reductive to say that he has contributed to music. Because for the Master absolute fidelity to music, as Riccardo Muti said, has marked the history of the conductor and musical interpretation in international institutions. Music was his soul, his reason for existence, his key to dialogue with the world, with young people, with the cultural communities he knew, met and influenced. In Italian and European culture, his work has been constantly inspired by deep musical choices, aware, as he has always been, that the search for innovative paths should be combined with the ability to represent and communicate courageous and culturally rigorous choices. This awareness never abandoned him and from the beginning, in the fifties of the last century, inspired him. I really believe that only for such exalted personalities can one say, that his artistic research was so intense that it interested the soul. For Master Abbado, as Stéphane Lissner said, his social commitment was motivated by the conviction that music was a patrimony to be handed over to all, with intellectual rigour, but with the spirituality of those who believe that artistic interpretation can never be confined exclusively to technique, albeit of the highest level, in purely formal and aesthetic structures, but must always identify and spread their humanity. The opera is the most complete synthesis of his work of interpretation, because for Abbado it was representation and dream, classical repertoire and unpublished readings, expression of a collegial work that he directed making all of them partakers, musicians and people. His relationship with the city of Bolzano has always been important and constant throughout his life. In 1986, Abbado founded the European Youth Orchestra Gustav Mahler Jugendorchester, and the master also created the Gustav Mahler Music and Youth Foundation, which is the result of an intense collaboration of the Gustav Mahler Youth Orchestra and the city of Bolzano, where high-quality courses are held every summer for young musicians at the newly formed Gustav Mahler Academy, also influenced by the teacher. In 2002 the city of Bolzano awarded him honorary citizenship and in 2008 he was awarded the medal for the civil value of South Tyrol/Südtirol. As a European citizen and among the greatest exponents of culture and art in Italy and in its ever more diverse international dimension, because of the interweaving of different cultures, he was appointed senator for life by President Napolitano. We are convinced that he has thought of his institutional role as a choice of service for his country, for the same reasons that have distinguished his artistic work: humility is always the premise for knowledge and knowing means having to make choices. Abbado made his choices in favour of culture, music and the community and especially young people. So we want to remember it forever and with all sympathy, esteem and affection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u156	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Claudio Abbado, together with Toscanini: the best conductors and the history of world music. It was Toscanini, after seeing him perform very young, who told him that he would succeed. A prophecy. We express, on behalf of the North League, the mourning for the death of Master Claudio Abbado, who died a few days ago at 80 years old in his home in Bologna, after a long illness. He was born in Milan in 1933, in a Milanese family of musicians (he was his parents and his older brother Marcello) and shone among the excellences of the international direction, winning three podiums legend: that of the Scala of Milan (1968-1986), that of Vienna (1986-1991) and that of Berlin (1989-2002). He was a tireless talent scout and forger of orchestras, founded the European Community Youth Orchestra, the Chamber of Europe, the Gustav Mahler from which the Mahler Chamber was born and the Mozart, closed just two weeks ago. The lack of funding and the health problems of Abbado, the guarantee mark of this Italian excellence, have led to the suspension of its activity. He had trained in Milan, but it was in Vienna that he discovered himself director. Here he entered the class of Swarovsky, a pupil of Richard Strauss, and began attending the Wiener's rehearsals. He debuted in 1958 in Trieste and La Scala in 1960: he was 27 years old, and perhaps also for this he was a director ready to bet on young people, labeled as baby directors, by a gerontoiatric society like Italy. As soon as he was thirty he had already made the tour of the most important podiums, including that of Salzburg, at the invitation of Herbert von Karajan. And here he had the official and definitive consecration. In 1968 he was appointed Music Director of La Scala and remained there until 1986; he left after founding the Philharmonic, the complex that managed to make him return to the Scala in 2012. Also in 1986, Abbado took over the direction of the Staatsoper in Vienna and in 1989 he succeeded the deceased von Karajan in the lead of Berliner Philharmoniker, the most prestigious orchestra in Europe. With José Antonio Abreu he promoted the system of Venezuelan schools and orchestras composed mostly of children in poor conditions, often coming from barrios. For decades this system has been demonstrating that, simply by putting an instrument in the hands of children and inviting them to sing and play together with their peers, a future far from poverty and crime is favored for them. Abbado was convinced that music was one of the best therapies that exist. Claudio Abbado pursued the projects with creed and generosity, as he demonstrated by devoting his salary as a senator for life to the music school of Fiesole in support of scholarships, this is because he was convinced that only by giving value to culture, our country can look with greater confidence to the future and that musical education is a fundamental tool for the development of the person and the quality of civil life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u159	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Senate of the Republic, the Upper House of the Republic, recalls the luminous figure of master Claudio Abbado, an extraordinary artist whose honour and privilege we have had to be colleagues since the President of the Republic appointed him senator for life. Unfortunately, because of the disease that had already struck him, we were able to enjoy very little of his presence in this House, but I am sure that without the rapid progress of the disease would have been an indispensable reference point for all the issues concerning the culture and training of the younger generations. In his declaration of acceptance of the appointment as a senator for life he said he was honored, moved and grateful to President Napolitano for having included among those who gave lustre to the Homeland for the highest merits in the scientific, artistic and social field a representative of culture and in particular of music, thus highlighting the importance and value, alongside science, as an instrument of growth and development for the country. It is difficult to speak of Master Abbado without risking to fall into a rhetoric of manner, but it is impossible to speak of him and his life in terms that are not those of exceptionality and extraordinaryness. His career is a progression of unparalleled successes and positions among the most prestigious: the direction of the Teatro alla Scala, the Berlin Philharmonic (called by the orchestras themselves to succeed von Karajan), the Vienna Opera, the London Symphony Orchestra. This alone is enough to define the stature of Master Abbado, an Italian who was in full title one of the greatest conductors of our time and who throughout the world wept and celebrated. But Master Abbado has also left us a great lesson of civil passion, through his commitment to the youth orchestras that countless has founded and that has personally followed and formed in the conviction that culture is not merely an accessory, but the first great wealth of a country. During his trip to Venezuela he had to say "My stay in Venezuela, where music has a huge social value and where hundreds of youth orchestras have been born, has confirmed that music really saves children from crime, prostitution and drugs. I saw them, making music together, they find themselves. Among them, I would like to mention the Youth Orchestra of the European Community. Allow me a brief digression, because in this House we talk often and so much about Europe, but we should not talk about Europe, we should do it, each because of the talent it has. So did Master Abbado: he founded an orchestra of young people who alternated, once they completed their training, thus forming an incredible number of musicians of the highest level. A few months after the tragic earthquake that struck Irpinia in 1980, Master Abbado with the Youth Orchestra of the European Community held, of course free of charge, a concert in Avellino's devastated Theatre to make his solidarity with those populations so badly affected and so did L'Aquila. Master Abbado was not only a great artist, first of all he was a great man, animated by an authentic civil passion. In the autumn of 2004 the story of love between the Master and the city of Bologna was born and at the hospital S. Orsola there is also a tree in his honour. After a year spent between the theatres of Ferrara and Reggio Emilia, he decided to found the orchestra Mozart of Bologna. The city welcomes him as an international music star and gives him honorary citizenship. And with this last remembrance of the capital city of my Region and on behalf of the New Right Center Group, I end by reminding you that our colleague Abbado has made us proud and grateful. And this gratitude, I am sure, will be of consolation to his family, to whom our thoughts go at this moment for them so painful. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u162	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, in a letter to Nina Ruffini dated 14 April 1939, while Europe is slipping into the dark of the imminent conflict, Piero Martinetti wrote: Luminous souls are infinitely rare, but they have a duty to recognize themselves, to help themselves, to train themselves and to console themselves. The world really exists for them. The rest is nothing that doesn't count. I like to think that these lines contain the meaning of our being here today. It is always difficult to enclose in a few words the life of a man: you can actually say who he was and how he lived, but there are many ways to reach the truth of his life. Here we have, before the recently appointed senator, the conductor of genius orchestra, the brilliant musician, the man enclosed in his humanity, in the secular passion for battles on equality, human rights, without narcissism and crossed by a vein of personal spirituality, in concerts performed in prisons and hospitals, which symbolically approach Abbado to those who knew how to share in prison their knowledge with their companions. A name on all: the Belgian historian Henri Pirenne, who was among the non-violent voices more authoritative against the German occupation of Belgium during the First World War. [[Brusio]] I understand an eminent colleague has arrived with us, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u163	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u164	Please, Senator, continue your speech. Montevecchi (M5S). And, again, attention and availability to young people, the bull's eye of the podium and the discreet penumbra of the private. The gestures, the photos in which we meet young people: a piano, a wardrobe, a corridor where time acts as a solvent, capable of enclosing the dreams and embarrassments of youth, but also the disenchantment of maturity, the sincere and courageous smile of this man. Football as a hidden passion and relived emotion of childhood. All the details, in short, all the trifles that are lost in every life. Other colleagues have already mentioned his exploits and his experiences in Vienna, his friendship with Zubin Metha and Daniel Barenboim and then with the great pianist Maurizio Pollini; his arrival in Berlin precisely in the fateful 1989, the year of the fall of the Wall; the return to "La Scala" and the 90 trees asked the Milan administration for symbolic reimbursement for two concerts. Finally, the Orchestra Mozart of Bologna. Son of the twentieth century, Abbado passionately crossed the exposed and impervious territories, without escaping militant positions or, sometimes, of heated radicalism. Rather than politically restricting its positions, we believe it is appropriate to recall a generous adherence to every circumstance in which it was able to perceive the fire of the controversy, together of course with the commitment - which was always constant - to the diffusion of music, with particular attention to the difficult simplicity of the contemporary and, more generally, of the culture understood with a wide range of laps of compass. With Claudio Abbado disappears a director among the most famous and well-known who have left a deep mark in the history of music of recent decades. In Ferrara, once, directing the Chamber Orchestra of Europe, he had to perform an encore from "Le nozze di Figaro" (The Wedding of Figaro), instead, the orchestra jokingly attacked with a song taken from "Il barbiere di Seville" (The Barber of Seville), which Abbado, without discomposing, directed laughing. This was Claudio Abbado, a witness of Italian culture in the world; someone who was able to enclose with his own activity, with his own intelligence and with a smile, the best face of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, I believe that the best way today to commemorate this imposing figure of our cultural heritage is - I am pleased the Minister is present - to mobilize to save the Mozart Orchestra. Therefore, I ask you to turn your statements yesterday into concrete facts and to do everything possible to save an orchestra that - let us remember - in 2014 is nominated for the "Grammy Awards" as the best orchestral performance for the engraving of Schumann's second symphony. I also ask for a serious and concrete commitment - again to the Minister and to the Undersecretary Borletti Buitoni to report to my fellow Minister Carrozza - to find the resources for the teaching of music to become part of the training offer in our schools, because I believe that this is a desire that dwells in all of us. However, let us go beyond rhetoric and finally start to do something about culture and education. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u167	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, while recognizing my believer, I will resort to a pagan figure to show affection and mourning for the departure of Master Abbado. The exterminated repertoires, from Verdi to Nono, from Rossini to Stravinsky to Schoenberg, have been Viatico to trample on today the exterminated meadows of the afterlife. For Abbado - says Stéphane Lissner, current Superintendent of the Teatro alla Scala - music was a territory without borders, from the eighteenth century to today: no break between Romanticism and the twentieth century, no predilection, but always and only a great work of deepening to find at the heart of every musical expression at all times. Claudio Abbado, according to the Head of State, has contributed with his exceptional talent and his deep civil sensitivity to the opening of new roads for a richer development of relations between culture and society. Like these enlightening statements, we can therefore say that they remain of him, not only the lasting traces of his very high quality of interpreter, rigorous and creative, but above all remains the legacy of the orchestras that he has been able to build, valorizing entire hosts of young musicians. He has always distinguished himself for a strong capacity for innovation and a spirit of profound renewal, which led him to transform and expand the programming and artistic choices of the theatres and orchestras he directed. Emancipating classical music from traditional and established artistic logics, often self-referential, and from pure style exercises, Abbado managed to recover authors and forgotten works, enhancing contemporary composers and spreading the singular concept of music as an extraordinary thaumaturgic element of communities in social and economic difficulties, made up of marginalized and men and women without future. Convinced that musical art must be a factor of cohesion and union of people and that its sharing, as wide as possible, is the only means to make music an effective instrument of progress in society, Master Abbado has been tireless bearer of a wind of profound revolutionary innovation in the world music scene. Geniality, solidarity, humility, civic sense: through these peculiarities of character and culture, Abbado has managed to make classical music more easily accessible and accessible to all, and has done so using its strong communication skills. He was without a shadow of doubt a free person, consistent with his own ideas and beliefs and independent of any artistic and political conditioning: these aspects, on some occasion, have exposed him to criticism, especially coming from the moderate political-cultural area, which in fact highlighted the improper instrumental use of his work and his figure as an intellectual by the left, without however - the liberal political area to which I belong - calling into question his artistic personality, his social commitment and of spreader, the democratic and Christian act of giving, of making available, of the bread of music divided with everyone. Muti, Pappano, Barenboim and 97 other great contemporary musicians, consulted by an authoritative international specialized magazine, have judged Abbado the world's largest conductor. The conservatives and the state and parified music schools and the middle schools with a musical address would render a great service to the country if, autonomously, they organize and promote concerts, essays, moments and musical spaces of reflection and recollection on the extraordinary artistic, civil and human experience of the master Abbado. The unanimous craving of Italians will generate from school institutions to finally pour into families, into civil society, so that the memory of a great Italian pervades the entire nation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and the Senators Amati and Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u170	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, music lovers have learned of the death of Claudio Abbado with the same sadness felt for the disappearance of a dear friend or a loved relative. So deep is the extraordinary emotional relationship that still binds and binds Claudio Abbado not only to those who love music, but to a world much wider than that of concerts. After all, it is as if Abbado had lived next to each of us, helping us to understand how much music has counted in our personal existence, how much it has helped us to grow culturally, humanly and even morally. Anyone who has listened to the music of Abbado, but also observed the civil behavior and followed life and thought, knows that with him has left not only an immense musician, among the greatest of the great Italian tradition of Toscanini and De Sabata, but also a great man, a great humanistic intellectual, a person whose nature has given a rare sensibility, generosity and existential fever. By his own will, in Abbado art, life and social commitment (as Senator Renzo Piano reminded us a moment ago) have never travelled on separate roads. The testimonies of his musicians are touching: the media feeling that they recounted having tried with his direction, as if the energy that they were able to free by touching their instruments came directly from him, and especially in recent years, when he resumed to direct, with an even deeper passion and tenderness, after winning his first battle against the disease. Listening to Claudio Abbado in concert was, for those who were lucky enough to do so, an unforgettable experience. For many years, whenever I could, I have listened to him direct. In September 2010, I was also in the very small theatre of the city of Jesi, when he conducted the Mozart orchestra in a sublime "Stabat Mater" in Pergolesi and in my memory, that evening, there is much of the genius of Abbado. Certainly the recognition of the value of the great Italian music of the eighteenth century, which so much inspired the extraordinary creativity of Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn and Chopin, only to name the greatest. But that evening in Jesi there was also Abbado's attention to the cultural richness of the small cities and small Italian theatres, there was his love for the youth orchestras and there was his effort for musical education. There was his torment for the spread of culture that pushed him to bring his music not only to the audience of Scala and Metropolitan, but also in the Italian province, on the island of Cuba, in the towns of South America, even in prisons. It was this acute sensitivity that motivated him to support in Italy with his charisma and with his commitment the 'choirs of white hands' of deaf-mute children, capable of making their hands play with the movement of their candid gloves. From its restless and acute nature comes interest in Venezuela and El Sistema, hundreds of youth orchestras born with the aim of pushing children towards music and keeping them away from crime, prostitution and drugs. Claudio Abbado believed in young people and believed in music as the primary value of civilization. He explained this well on the occasion of another extraordinary initiative: that of the prisoners of the criminal section of the Bolognese prison of the Dozza, the Papageno Choir. On that occasion, Abbado said that learning to sing together means learning to listen to one another. In these words of Abbado there is a great teaching for Italy of our time, for Italy of the crisis and disorder. Being a community and the need for positive relationships between men and women is what would most serve our country to overcome the stagnation that gripes it and prevents it from growing. Speaking of the work of the Papageno Choir, Abbado reminded us that the voice of each of us, even that of us parliamentarians, is worth very little if we do not know or do not want to put it in relation with that of others, if we do not feel the duty to listen to each other even when we play different instruments. A friend of Abbado, José Antonio Abreu, said that music penetrates deeper into the soul of the human being than any other form of art. Politics has a great need for music and culture. He always needs it, in general. But all the more so today, while the times are ticking, the processes are accelerating, the emergencies are pressing and good decisions are pressing. Today, skills, professionalism and experience must be felt. Reflection on choices, analysis of situations and understanding of trends are necessary. Today the personalities able to bring these qualities into play are precious and, unfortunately, are not numerous. The figure of the senators for life is also written in our Constitution with these intentions: men and women who have honored their country in the sciences, in the arts, in thought, in active intellectual life. Special personalities who have accumulated knowledge and wisdom to put at the service of the public good. This is the real sap of institutions, which makes them live and not just survive. It also makes them transform in the right way. Improvisation, Mr President, is the risk to be fought in every process of change, because it makes it fleeting and unproductive. Personality, like that of Claudio Abbado, great artist of music, possess the sensitivity necessary to understand the anxieties of society and grasp the needs of time, to read and interpret them, to express them in those nuances that politics, even the best, alone cannot grasp. Public institutions need culture, the real culture, so that they can represent the people's will and not, as is often the case, to pretend to do so. There is great constitutional quality and cultural sensitivity in the decision of President Napolitano to appoint Claudio Abbado senator for life. An appointment that has honored Italy, Parliament and our Senate. I also have a hope: that the appointment as a senator for life has contributed, at least for a moment, to make Claudio Abbado feel not only the esteem of the President of the Republic, but also the great affection, the sincere admiration and the deep gratitude that the Italians feel for him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u171	He asked the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u172	Mr President, illustrious senators, dear family members of Claudio Abbado, the death of Claudio Abbado has taken away not only his extraordinary artistic testimony, but one of the great personalities of our country. When on August 30, 2013, the President of the Republic of Naples appointed him Senator for life has, with his choice, doubly applied Article 59 of the Constitution, the one that prescribes that the senators for life must have illustrated the Homeland for very high merits in the social, scientific, artistic and literary field. Yes, because Abbado has illustrated us, he has filled us with light twice: as a great artist and as a protagonist and witness of the social field. Many, better than me, have remembered in these days the most significant characters of the Master's artistic and musical footprint: student, music enthusiast from an early age, very young conductor, musical director of the most famous international musical institutions, on the podium of the most important orchestras alongside the best soloists, tireless scholar, innovator in the repertoire and set up. The Berliners first of all, the Mahler Chamber Orchestra, the Salzburg Festival, the Teatro alla Scala, the Mozart Orchestra: these are just some of the fundamental stages of a unique journey in the life of one of the greatest conductors of all time, Master Claudio Abbado, who we must remember and remember now, in the Senate. But it is the great generosity and tireless purpose of the Master that have most excited and impressed me always: a constant commitment, over the years, to give impetus to the birth of new formations, to support and enhance new talents and, in particular, the youngest. He believed in young people. He lived music; his curiosity and passions merged into music. He always said that the only way to make music for him was to make music together. We must, our country must be together, and this can be done thanks to culture. It is with this spirit and with this obstinacy that he has been able to create entire generations of musicians. Alongside this, another commitment, almost a civil mission, was to promote the knowledge of musical culture. Abbado did not think that the future of music was to aspire to the role of harmless pastime or privilege for a close elite of lucky people. On the contrary, he has always thought of his art, of all art, as a means of liberation, education, dignity, a way - as he writes - for the full development of the human person. In an interview of 2010 there was everything his spirit: The reaction that I have always had before those who have always told me that culture costs too much is to do more. The answer must always be positive. If anyone qualifies by telling me that culture has no value, he disqualifies himself. Culture, art and beauty are the true values of our country; they are those for which I will always fight, so all children will be able to study music, so, thanks to beauty, this will be the country remembered all over the world. Music marked his life, demanded his greatest efforts, gave him the greatest happiness and satisfaction. But art, music were also something else for the Master (again he), a tool for the development of the human person, an instrument to act in society, to defend that idea of community and values that are so dear to me. This conviction guided him in that extraordinary experience that he calls of system, of system also for our country. It is the project designed by José Antonio Abreu, conductor and minister for culture in Venezuela, that Claudio Abbado adopts because he is able to see the greatness, almost revolutionary, he writes, imagining to realize it also in our country. Says Abbado: "Music, art, education are means to change the world, a utopia perhaps but it will be the construction of a good place. It is utopia that will change our world, which will give everyone the opportunity to reflect on the importance of being together. And so our president, Giorgio Napolitano, naming him senator for life, recognized this greatness and these values reminding us all of the very high merits of Claudio Abbado, artistic merits, civil, human, of love for our country. His life, his performances, the orchestras he founded and directed, his commitment to music, to that ideal of community must remain a living witness for all of us. The Government and I personally will endeavour to identify the best ways to ensure that such experiences must continue to be an excellence of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u175	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to speak because the press agencies, a few minutes ago, reported the testimony of the Mafioso La Barbera, who, in a statement at the trial on the so-called State-Mafia negotiation, confessed: To eliminate Pietro Grasso we already had explosives and remote controls. The attack was to take place in Monreale, a place where he often went to meet his in-laws. Mr President, I want to bring you here my solidarity and I believe in the whole House. [[The Assembly stands. Live applause.]] M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No choirs, please. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to express to you the sincere, affectionate and political solidarity of the Senators of the Democratic Party. Our rigour in examining the rules against organised crime and the Mafia is a rigour which unfortunately finds in these reports the need to be confirmed and strengthened. Still our solidarity, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u176	Colleagues, I thank you for this tribute of solidarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u179	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with the words of President Zanda. He knows how difficult it is in this country to get rid of the mortgage and the mafia footprint of entire Regions that, especially in the Italian collective imagination, but often European and world, are full of phenomena impossible to overturn. A confession of this kind leads us to cling to her and to fully represent our solidarity. We are convinced that this war, which we have always done to the Mafia, must find a solution, and must find all of us as an institution, as members of this Parliament, and all of the institutions, united to ensure that the Mafia is finally eradicated. This is not only to give solidarity to those who - like you, in this case - are the subject of such mafia threats, but also to finally give our country a completely different image than the one to which unfortunately on many occasions and in many countries we are linked. Therefore, our solidarity goes to you, Mr President: we are close to you, and you know that this feeling is widely shared by all the senators of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u182	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, apart from all rhetoric, I believe that it was right for President Zanda to point out - right now, on this occasion and these days - the dramatic fact that continues to be no longer news, but something more and worse. On the part of our Group and my staff, it has not only our solidarity, but the support, as President of the Senate, to continue the joint action, which we are trying to conduct and which we will carry out against all kinds of mafias. I've never had the opportunity to thank you before - so I'm doing it now - for what you did when you exposed your person, during your office in the judiciary, to conduct a streetless fight against organized crime. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u185	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, we too want to show you our closeness and gratitude. On these days, unfortunately, we have witnessed repentances - which have represented and represent dark pages of our history - that have still expressed the desire to break down the democratic structure of our nation. Angelino Alfano, the Minister of the Interior, with the anti-mafia code did not lower his guard, in the beehive of an important story of our nation, and you, Mr President, were and are an important person in this story. I believe that a good page in the history of our nation, so also in our Senate, would be to return to the Chamber next week and find unanimity on the amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. It would be an important signal to give to the people who thought and are thinking of undermining the unity of our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u188	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of all my group's colleagues, I would like to express our solidarity and - let me say this - also my pride in having chosen it and elected it as President of the Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed-GAPp groups),]] both because we knew - like many others in our country - his great commitment and dedication to the fight against the mafia and organized crime, both in the light of the news that came today. We know - and you know better than we do - that the mafia and organized crime are not rebelling with rhetorical words and fine words, but with the commitment both to being close to those who fight in the front row on the territories and to enact here rules such as those we have faced in today's debate, in order to send the clear and precise signal that the institutions today are determined to defeat this scourge, which too much sinks into the Italian system. This must be the great horse of battle for a real ransom of our country. I therefore renew our solidarity with you, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u191	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, of course, from the entire Group of the 5 Star Movement our solidarity with you and, above all, with all those who fight against the Mafia daily. So a firm and firm no against the Mafia and full solidarity with you, Mr President, but also with those who are experiencing enormous tension these days, with all the magistrates who are in a very, very thin line of border and demarcation. But the no to which I referred must be clearly expressed by all the political forces immediately, giving continuity, for example, to today's work on the provision amending Article 416-b of the Criminal Code [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator Antinori]] , whose process can be concluded immediately, perhaps even with unanimous approval. In inviting us to join our no without if and without but with the Mafia, I therefore ask this House to proceed now to the vote on the measure in question. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u194	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I welcome our solidarity and solidarity. Senator Zanda's report bears witness to the commitment that all of us must make not only of our institutional role, but also of the witness that everyone must give in his private and public dimension, beyond this House. In turning our solidarity to her, we obviously also turn her, through her, to all those who daily, in anonymity, carry out that work of great dedication in defense of the State, in defense of the laws of the State, in defense of every citizen. I don't think it's even a mafia issue anymore, but all the various forms of crime that characterize some areas of our territory. I also believe that our Group will renew what we have always witnessed, not only in voting for it in a convinced and enthusiastic way as President of this Senate, but also, because of what its history is witnessing, in promoting a common and community commitment to solidarity and witness in the life of everyday life and the institutional commitment that we have. So accept this expression of our closeness and solidarity as those who say they are, not only friends at the institutional level, but also friends at the moral level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u197	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, in associating myself, on behalf of the Civic Choice Group, with the words of President Zanda, I would like to remind you that today we are debating whether it was worth it exactly a hundred years ago to ask our grandparents to risk their lives for the conquest of a strip of territory. I believe that in 100 years no one will argue, no one will doubt that it is worth it today, that it is everyone's duty, even risking their lives for the defence of the Republican Constitution, the freedom of all to express themselves. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] and to carry out its public function, where this is concerned, against any intimidation. The most serious is the intimidation that comes from organized crime of a mafia nature, but we know how many other violent threats to freedom of thought and political and civil freedom have occurred in our country. Full solidarity with you, then, and with all those who are fighting on this trench today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u200	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we too agree, of course, with what Mr Zanda said. I think that this brings justice, let me say it, especially of an unfortunate controversy that we witnessed as soon as you were elected President of the Senate (we have voted for it firmly and we are proud that it represents us): also on that occasion you showed great civilization in the face of a tiresome and instrumental controversy that looked at it. I think that your work, in everyday life - you have shown it in years - can only give yet another proof of what it means to be servants of the State, also endangering your own life, that of your family and your employees. We can only express our closeness and solidarity on the part of our Group. We are proud that you represent us on this path, within this difficult and winding legislature; but I also think that on this occasion politics, no matter how difficult it is, has been able to find the best people to interpret the institutions and represent us. I think this is yet another test. Good work and thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u203	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, we also support you, and we doubly support you because you are Sicilian, as we are. We know how much tribute our land has paid for the fight against the mob and crime. Making the names of Dalla Chiesa and Borsellino seems superfluous. How many heroes, including the Forces of Order, the judiciary, among the administrators, among the many people who believed us and continue to believe us, how much blood has been shed in our land to defend the legality! I am convinced, however, that a land that produces too many heroes is not a righteous land. Something's wrong. It is important that all institutions and citizens play their part. Institutions that are able to speak, to collaborate, to understand themselves make the level of civil culture grow in a land. Only in this way can we defeat the mob and no longer need heroes; crying heroes, then, is a sad thing, and in the end it serves little. We need examples. She, like so many other Sicilians of whom we honor to be fellow citizens, was a great example of a servant of the State. That is why we are honored to have you as President and I believe that this example can at least serve other citizens so that everyone can imagine doing their part and not feeling excluded from this process, which must see us all together so that civilization and civil life can finally be affirmed in our land. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u204	You've asked the Undersecretary of State for Justice to intervene, Dr. Ferri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u205	Mr President, I too, on behalf of my staff and the Government, would like to express my closeness and solidarity to you. I can witness your commitment and your example within the judiciary, last in your last post at the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor's Office, where you have done a lot. You have tried, in the performance of your duties in the judiciary, never to make discounts to anyone, with great balance and great impartiality. Today, therefore, in expressing solidarity and closeness to you and your family, I take the opportunity to say that we must be close to you and to all the magistrates involved in the front line, as well as to the Forces of the Order. [[Applause]] : to the police, to the police, to the Finance Guard, to the Prison Police, to those who do the protections, who also sacrifice their lives and their profession alongside those who are engaged in the front line. We must not forget it even when we read and intervene. But I must acknowledge that in recent years the governments that have been there have worked on the theme of the Mafia, have given answers and tools for the fight against the Mafia. These are things we can find in our codes and laws, so the state is there today and there has been even in the past years. Today we can improve. Today's debate has been very interesting, and I am sure that working together (I remember the sentences you mentioned earlier, President Grasso, in commemorating Abbado: listening to each other) is the right path, both in music and in life and in society. Therefore, listening to us and without prejudice, I think that we can still make rules, such as Article 416-b, which can be adopted unanimously by this House: it will be the best answer and the best way to be close and supportive with you, against those who allow themselves to make these infamous attacks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u206	I must thank everyone for the words you have spoken to me and I want to reassure you, because the values and objectives of respect for the institutions, of human and civil solidarity, of legality and justice that I have professed in my previous profession continue to be present in my activity, now changed into politics. So together we will continue to give the means to defeat mob crime, all crime, and all the forms of violence that unfortunately live in the world. Excuse me, but I can no longer continue to preside over this House for the concussion that is taking me. [[Applause]] I therefore give the presidency to Vice-President Lanzillotta. Thanks again. [[Live applause. A lot of senators stand up.]] 14.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u207	Colleagues, let's resume our work after the very intense moments of this morning. I would like to say that the Conference of Leaders has approved, by a majority, changes to the agenda of the Assembly. The examination of the draft law amending Article 416-b of the Criminal Code on political-mafia electoral exchange will continue next week at the single sitting on Tuesday 28 January, beginning at 12 noon. The time limits have been allocated among the Groups in order to allow the examination of the measure to be completed and its approval by 4 p.m. During the same session, starting at 4 p.m., the decree-law of extension of time and the motion Lanzillotta on the support of cities candidates for European Capital of Culture 2019 will be examined. The meeting of the question time on Thursday 30 January, with the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, is anticipated at 3 p.m. Finally, the timetable for next week is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u210	MOLINARI (M5S). Madam President, I believe that we are making a mistake, and I also stressed this at the Conference of Leaders, in which I participated as Vice-President of my Group. There has been a debate in this House that most of us have had with intellectual honesty and in order to better develop the issues surrounding this reform. It has been awaited for a long time, it had been unanimously approved by the House this summer, and here it had to find fulfillment and must find conclusion. I think it's a mistake to have postponed it, at a time when we have to send messages, as well as to President Grasso, even to those who are struggling, like Judge Di Matteo. [[Applause]] Also because (I do not want to make false rhetoric) the mafia does not go on holiday, and we must give a signal to the Italian society, which is waiting for a single word from this House, which must come from everyone, about the fight against the mafia, from which the amendment of Article 416-b, among other instruments, helps to free us. At this point, we ask the House to vote on the proposal to amend the timetable - as we had put it in the Capigroup - to continue until the end of work without time, so that a message which we must send to the Italian people is clearly issued from this House today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The people ask for a clear signal from us: that we finally give the right tools to fight the Mafia. M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Get the mob out of the state! Get the mob out of the state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please allow the work of the Senate to be carried out and not to be a choir.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u213	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I strongly agree that the Mafia must be kept out of the state and kicked out of the state, where there is one. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Excuse me, colleagues of the Five Star Movement, one way to fight the Mafia is also to make institutions work. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , SCpI, FI-PdL XVII eM5S). The institutions, we have all said, also you, commemorating a moment ago Master Abbado, are also respectful of listening; laughing at each other does not help us in any way to achieve a result. Mr President, I want to say this because we are talking about a very serious issue: there is a strong need for justice and there is a need for the functioning of Parliament. During the Conference of Leaders, the Group of the Democratic Party was very clear: it left the President of the Senate the honour and burden of the proposal of the calendar and stated that it wanted to approve the measure as quickly as possible, and we explicitly said that, where it was possible to approve it at the next hour, we were absolutely ready. We have also said that, if this pause was by chance required with the idea that the Democratic Party could change its position compared to that expressed in this House this morning, this would have been a waste of time, because we will maintain and maintain our position when the measure is voted on. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, I look forward to listening to colleagues from the other groups and, as stated at the Conference of Leaders, we will follow the timetable that the House and the Presidency of the Senate will decide, with the clarifications I have just made. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u216	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with President Zanda when he says that we are fighting the mob by making the institutions work. The Mafia is also being fought by not telling clear lies in this House and outside. I'm sorry to have to read a statement from Senator Mirabelli saying, The PD today was ready to vote on the draft law on the exchange vote approved by the Commission and it is very serious that Forza Italia, with incomprehensible distinction, forced the Senate to postpone the vote on an indispensable measure to fight the mob and defend our democracy. Senator Mirabelli, that's not true. I would ask you to reconsider: you have seen the debate in this House; you may not be informed of the debate in the group leaders. There was a difference, which I would like to sum up in the adverb 'consciously', on which he debated. It was not only Forza Italia who supported the thesis that perhaps it would be worthwhile to make a reflection, being 416-b an important article precisely to fight the mafia, happens in the proximity of electoral events. Many groups have asked for further consideration on this point and, therefore, we have consciously asked for the possibility to postpone until Tuesday, failing to find today a point of understanding, also referring to the request of the Government, which was not absent this morning that asked us, as already happened in the House, for a unanimous vote. Tuesday means three days - I am addressing President Zanda - and we could probably get a unanimous vote on an important measure. I believe that this pause for reflection, requested not only by Forza Italia - I repeat, Senator Mirabelli - can serve to achieve this important result. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u219	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I read this morning in the most important Italian newspaper, the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), the basic article, signed by Panebianco, which states that in this country "The representation of interests...." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, we're still discussing the calendar, so I'd ask you to stick to the subject. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). Yes, I am very much on the subject of why we are in favour of postponing the examination of the draft law to Tuesday. This article states: The representation of interests, including the normal and lawful representation in other democracies, is now at serious risk of criminalisation. It notes that, with the problem of voting, preferences risk becoming, if not evidence, a criminal offence. The article concludes by suggesting to candidates to attend meetings with voters accompanied by their lawyers, because the elections in this climate will turn, according to Panebianco, into a criminal issue and no longer a confrontation. Well, this morning I heard magistrates...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u220	Forgive me, Senator, but we must express our views on the proposed inclusion in the timetable, not on the substance of the measure: otherwise we would have continued the discussion of the measure!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u221	Since Senator Zanda has explained why his Group is making some reasoning, I am briefly motivating why my Group, in front of magistrates who have decades of experience as criminal magistrates and who here have given diametrically opposed interpretations of the rule we are going to introduce and the amendments, is in favour of postponing the examination to Tuesday. As this matter is very important, we too want to achieve unanimous convergence, because we believe that a split in the Senate, which today would be inevitable if there were a differentiation on the amendment presented, would be a victory for the Mafia. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We believe that going to Tuesday offers room for a united convergence, and we are therefore in favour of postponing the examination. And that is enough with this Presidency that does not let Members speak!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u222	Sorry, I just wanted to try to focus the discussion on the subject. That is the subject, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Very well, we have taken note and your speech has been made fully.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u224	He has the same right to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u225	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to make the same call, otherwise the meetings of the group leaders will be held directly in this House if we all have to take action again! [[Applause from the Mixed SEL, PD and M5S Groups]] Speaking of making the institutions work. Everyone has summarized their position. We had proposed that we continue; the President made a summary. At this point, I think it is necessary to vote quickly, and we will maintain our option to continue, as the dilated maneuvers continue. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u226	I would like to make it clear that the proposal that the Presidency has brought to this House is the proposal that has been adopted by a majority by the Heads of Groups. GIARRUSSO (M5S). By a majority of what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is now an alternative proposal from the 5 Star Movement on which the Assembly will be called to vote before the vote on the proposal put forward by the Heads of Groups. That is the procedure. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Molinari, to continue the sitting with the discussion of draft law No 948 and related items already on the agenda. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bottici.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u227	I inform you that the required number of senators has received a request to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Shareholders' Meeting, pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the following of the discussion of bill No 54: Amendment to Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975 on the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Senator Malan asked to intervene in support of this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u228	Madam President, very briefly, this is a draft law signed by senators of all the parliamentary groups - with the first signing of Senator Amati, of the Democratic Group - and of which the debate has already begun in this House. I would ask Members to agree to this proposal, which is particularly topical these days, since next Monday will be Memorial Day. By preventing an intervention that I can already imagine, I am sure that the text can be improved, but this can only be done by examining it. I therefore believe that we will be able to approve in this House the amendments necessary to improve the text and in any case the House will decide. I repeat, it is a proposal supported by senators of all groups and I would say that it should be considered when, in a few days' time, as I said, it will be Memory Day. Faced with those who deny the existence of a very serious fact like the Holocaust, truly our consciences cannot remain indifferent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u229	The House will now have to comment on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u232	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Excuse me, colleagues. Madam President, I am opposed to the proposal made by Senator Malan, for the simple reason that the text of the law to which he refers, as it emerged from the Commission, does not deal with the Holocaust at all. It is a text according to which the 11,000 trials that are taking place in Europe, involving 84 nations in which war crimes or violations have been committed, could no longer be subject to historical investigation. On this text the unanimity of scholars, researchers, historians of the same Jewish world publicly expressed total dissent, because it would criminalize historical research at 360 degrees. The amendment I tabled to the Commission to restrict the Holocaust, and only the Holocaust, negationism, was rejected. I believe that instead of coming to the House on the day that the victims of the Holocaust are remembered to argue about this text, on which there are wide disagreements, it would be more logical - with the commitment to come to the House for the Holocaust Day - to send him to the Commission. In fact, I believe that if we want to talk about Holocaust, the text needs to be changed profoundly. Otherwise, the text that will be discussed in this House, and whose title has been given reading, has nothing to do with the Holocaust. It is simply the idea that every war crime, once judged by a European court, can no longer be subject to historical investigation, because those who say something contrary to that sentence can be criminalized, which is neither in heaven nor on earth. You're from PD banks. Stop!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u233	I put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Assembly of the follow-up to the discussion of draft law No 54, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-174.ana.u234	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.22 p.m.
