ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 925, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Ferranti and others, Costa, 110, 111, 113 and 666.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u5	Madam President, the question of pardon and pardon in this House has already been addressed in the past years... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues to lower their voices. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. This question was addressed, if I am not mistaken, in 2006 by Law No 241 of 31 July, always by a left-wing government. At least in that law one had the courage to give the right title to the provision, that is: "Concession of indult"; today one does not have with this courage and is called: "Delegates to the Government in the matter of non-convict prison sentences and provisions on the suspension of the procedure with the test and against the irretrievable" However, the measure remains an indult: even then the argument was supported that prisons are too full, that we must do an act of civilization, that we must empty prisons in order to respect human dignity and so on. Even then there were people who said that the best way to do justice to those who are serving the penalty is to make them live at least in environments where the dignity of the person is respected. Many years have passed and prisons have worsened: now prisons have become worse than before and not just for crowding. Those people (it seems to me there were 11,000), who then enjoyed that provision, to a great extent returned to prison, proving that the indult is a useless provision. You see, Madam President, this measure recalls the situation of a patient who has an arm injury, goes to the doctor and this one, rather than checking the causes of pain, treating evil and trying to prevent, what does he do? Cut off the arm: since the arm is no longer there, even the pain is no longer there. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the second time I call on my colleagues to lower their voices, otherwise we cannot listen to the senator, who has the right to be heard. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President, but I have no right to be heard if they do not want to listen to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But anyone who wants to listen to it has the right to do so. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] Thank you, Madam President. So, the doctor cuts off his arm, without worrying about the consequences, and a consequence may be that the evil also affects the other arm. This is precisely what this Government is doing: there is the problem of overcrowding of prisons and the best solution that this Government finds is to subscribe six years of imprisonment to the condemned. Yes, sir, six years! This means that those who have pursued stalking or raped will not serve any penalty. If I am not mistaken, in this very Chamber, a few months ago, everyone - everyone - was trying to say that in a civilized state it is impossible to allow stalkers or rapists to continue violence against women, and all to ask for more restrictive penalties! So many empty speeches, President! That's quite a hypocrisy of yours! Everyone stressed, among other things, that one of the problems was to make women go and denounce, because there were problems of repercussions, they were afraid. Instead, how many women are going to report who is harassing them, since that doesn't go to jail? Women, once again, will succumb, Madam President. Do we want to talk about pedophiles, too? Yes, sir, paedophiles will also benefit from this law, and I would just like to see how you would react if a paedophile approached your child. THE COURT (PD). Stop! Stop! COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Are you sure you want to... [[Comments of Senator Lo Giudice]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u6	Please! Please, Senator, go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u7	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). But if my colleague - I repeat - does not want to listen to me, he can leave the Chamber. No one's forcing him to stay. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u8	Senator Comaroli, it is the Presidency that is leading the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u9	[[Comments of the Senators The Judge and Mirabelli]] Please go on. DIVINE (LN-Aut). South Curve Disturbators! COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Are you sure you want pedophiles to walk around quietly without worrying about being arrested and going to jail? Apparently, that's what you want, colleagues. What about those who enter your homes, who steal, perhaps even threatening you? Well, these are also beneficiaries of the prison exemption. A few months ago I was struck by the news of an elderly woman who woke up during the night and found the thieves in the house. Soon after, this grandmother died of a heart attack. But can you in a civilized country, or at least considered such, not be safe at home? A serious state should put the security of its citizens among its priorities, but now this government doesn't care. A serious government should allow those who work and finish late in the evening to go to the station to take the train quietly, without fear. It should ensure the tranquility of the children who go to the park. But this does not seem to be important. You may have had the chance to read in the newspapers or watch on television a movie last week from a gang stealing cell phones at the subway entrance. Well, one of the members was entrusted to social services and the other to house arrest: and you call them poor? These are people who don't want to redeem themselves. They are not people who have made mistakes once and will not do it again: gentlemen, these are criminals and you want to introduce testing? Gentlemen, this is proof that what you want to do will not succeed, except that what these criminals will continue to do will be undeterred in their criminal activities. A government made up of ministers who really care about their citizens would study, seek and evaluate a solution that guarantees security and at the same time solve the problem of overcrowding in prisons. What did he do instead? He has chosen the simplest and most damaging path for citizens: he has drawn up this law of shame. In vain were suggested things that could be done immediately - just because we want to be proactive - that could at least alleviate, if not the conditions, the crowding of prisons. Why not imagine - for example - that the semiliberi, that is, the people who are admitted to outside work during the day, and are therefore eventually free even during the day to escape, but that in the evening they have to go back to prison, instead of going back there they can go to structures where they certainly do not run away? We have, President, structures: we have a huge number of unused buildings owned by the State, the Regions and the Municipalities; we have a multitude of abandoned barracks. Why, therefore, not imagine, whatever the crime is committed, that when it comes to serving the last year you may discount it, not in the current prisons, but in light structures such as - for example - disused prisons? Two carabinieri are enough, why doesn't anyone escape when they have to serve a few months or a year of their own sentence and why not also expect repatriation for foreign inmates and get the sentence to be served at their home? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's not like grabbing six years, detention for those who commit aberrant crimes. No, Madam President, no effort has been made to really try to solve the problem of prisons. On the other hand, once again, there is the instrumental use of the crowding of prisons to carry out a cultural operation, that of freeing the mass of people who have violated the law, but who from a certain well-thought-out culture are justified. This provision is clearly an indult: it is not house arrest, which is granted after, nor the prison sentence, but it is the alternative to prison detention; another type of detention. The penalty is commuted: exactly what constitutes the founding element of the institute of the indult, therefore of the pardon. Article 168-b of the Criminal Code, as introduced by this provision, speaks of testing. It means that at some point one says: I want to be put to the test because I've become good. I don't want the trial. I want you to forgive me. I want you to understand that I have redeemed myself. First of all: this request can also be made by a repeater, a multiple repeater, that is, one who has repeatedly committed crimes, perhaps of the same nature or just close, for the fourth or fifth time. Once he's caught, he says, Sorry, I would like to be tested, because suddenly I redeemed myself. Try me, check me out, you'll find that I've become an angel, that I don't deserve the trial, not even the penalty, nothing. In fact, Article 168b also states: The positive result of the test shall extinguish the offence for which it is carried out. Extinguishing the crime, be careful, it means extinguishing it also without even the obligation to compensate for the damage, because, a little further, in the provision it is said that "where possible" must compensate for the damage: where possible. This government could do a reform of justice, it could guarantee the famous certainty of punishment. I remember, in fact, that Italy, in the world rankings in the matter of justice, is in a position as a Third World state. I remember the very long time for a fair process and the difficulties that foreign investors have to use their resources in our country, because they are not guaranteed, while the criminals come more and more willingly to Italy. It seems that there are only rights for those who commit a crime, for criminals, while only duties remain for all other honest people. I remember the words of the Head of Police in Bucharest, the capital of Romania, who, when Europe's borders were opened, said: Since we entered Europe, Bucharest has become a livable capital. Crimes have decreased. Our criminals have gone to Italy, so much there they are sure not to serve the sentence, contrary to what, instead, happens from us. This is a phrase more explicit than a thousand words! With regard to the abolition of the crime of clandestineness, thanks to the amendment of our colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I believe that, with all the problems that crush Italy, this is not really a priority. On the contrary, it is uncontrolled immigration that is a huge problem, which is added to all the others. It is very strange that, instead of addressing it as an emergency, interventions are proposed that have more the air to aggravate than to solve the disaster. The citizens of the street, all the entrepreneurs, all the unemployed, all those who are not familiar with the smoky alchemies of the Palace, but who live daily the discomfort of the crisis and the annoyance of the invasion, may have some doubt. I would like to quote a few figures and make a few comments. Every year between 7 and 12 billion go into money transfer, legal or illegal, to the Countries of origin of immigrants: at least 100 billion in ten years, money that has disappeared creating serious damage to the national economy. At the end of last year, out of 65,000 inmates in Italian prisons, 35 percent were foreigners, with a cost of pure maintenance of the latter of 116 euros per day, that is in total about one billion per year. According to the Council of Europe in Italy there is a prison overcrowding rate of 147 percent: there would be only 44,700 prisoners. Today there are 42.209 Italians; if there were no immigrants there would still not be the problem of overcrowding of prisons: perhaps it would not be better for them to serve the sentence at home? If more than 35 percent of the prisoners are foreigners it can reasonably be assumed that at least a similar percentage of the crimes are committed by them, then it is reasonable to believe that without foreigners crime would decrease more than 35-40 percent. I remember the case of illegal immigrants who have recently sewn their mouths in protest. The thinking people said: "Oh poor people!" except then to find out that they were criminals, drug dealers, who demanded only that they fled from their country only to avoid the prison at their home, that we know to be much harder than from us. Every year the presence of immigration costs the national community a difficult amount to detail, but that varies between 20 and 40 billion; it is therefore entirely reasonable to assume that the whole phenomenon has cost in twenty years from 500 to 600 billion. Certainly, without this expenditure, the public debt would be at least a quarter lower. Then, when certain mayors are more concerned about immigrants than Italian citizens, it is a fact that really creates disgust, at least to me. I am referring, for example, to the case of Milan, where we are concerned about finding a palace in the centre of the city to give jobs to non-EU citizens; and our unemployed people? Is it not a priority duty for those who govern to protect their citizens? Apparently not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is repeated that we need immigrants because we do not want to do so many jobs, because they have high levels of education and many of them have qualities of quickness and initiative superior to those of many Italians, especially the elderly and the less educated. In the name of integration, should we accept that the weakest of our fellow citizens - I repeat - are condemned to remain the last? We don't think so. In Italy there are more than 3 million unemployed, of which more than 300,000 foreigners. There are 2.7 million Italians without work; there are 2.5 million employed foreigners and 1.25 million inactive foreigners; then there are families, minors and illegal immigrants; but shouldn't a government take care of its citizens who do not have a job? Instead, as is happening with the abolition of the crime of clandestineness, this Government will create even more unemployed because, since there is no longer the crime, many will come and the work for all is not there: there is no for the Italians, let alone there is also for foreigners! In fact, those Italians who have a job will lose him and therefore there will be even more unemployed. Strong pressure is being put on us to pass the bill on ius soli, which provides citizenship for almost a million foreign children and for another 80,000 each year, but I wonder what will prevent millions of pregnant women from coming to the borders to ask for free assistance. Italy will become a great center of obstetrics! If there were no immigration, what else would be forced to invent the various Riccardi, Kyenge, Turkish, Caritas, Boldrini and all the rest of the group of the candid souls of solidarity, always and only for others? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Each of us, gentlemen, in front of our constituents, in front of our own citizens, will have to show whether he prefers to favour those who commit crimes, even serious crimes, or innocent citizens, who want to maintain at least an acceptable level of security. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u11	Madam President, I wish to speak today on a subject which I do not deal with every day in the Commissions and in the House, because it is a matter of great interest and social impact. A first observation, for those who directly approach this type of measure from the House, is that perhaps it would be appropriate that, in the indication of the transformation of offences into administrative offences, normative references should also be clearer for earrings like me. We have a sequence of normative references in this list which is important, among other things, introduced by an amendment by the Commission, on which I must point out that, for those who do not attend the Commission on a daily basis, it is very difficult to find out what Article 11, first paragraph, of Law No 234 of 8 January 1931, or Article 3 of the Legislative Decree of 10 August 1945, No 506, and so on. If the object were to be made explicit when formulating these regulatory forecasts, I believe that it would be in the interest of all of us and also of the citizens who then go to read in the Official Journal the norm, always according to the principle of ignorant legislation not excusat; at least one would have the possibility that this ignoranty is not dictated by the cryptic nature of our legislative texts. This general remark, of course, is also addressed to myself, when it concerns matters which are dealt with on a daily basis in other Commissions. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of points in these aspects of the transformation into administrative offences of acts which are now being treated as offences, even if punished by fines. In particular paragraph 2 (c) (6) of Article 2, inserted by the Commission, deals, in my opinion, entirely generic, and therefore to be specified, with the subject of the discipline of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of their drug dependence states. The world universe of crimes related to the detention, drug dealing and drug use, if the government were to decide to be overly goodist, is likely to be turned into mere administrative misdemeanor. I therefore believe that this House, even if the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, must ask the Government and the rapporteur to consider this extensity of the forecast and therefore to proceed, even through a sub-amendment or an agenda, to a better definition of the area in which the Government is authorised to intervene on this very sensitive subject. In fact, we cannot allow that behind this forecast, which can also have its own logic and practicality, there is an indiscriminate liberalization of this sector, which should be the subject of another discussion, rather than that of a technicality reserved for those involved in the transformation of crimes into administrative illegal. Another point, much debated these days, concerns point (b) of paragraph 3 of this same article, which concerns the repeal of the offence provided for in Article 10- bis of the Single Text of the provisions concerning the regulation of immigration. I am not ideologically or formally attached to any text of law that is generated by a certain majority and as such considered untouchable, but by absolutely pragmatic legislators - and I personally have been able to follow the formation of these immigration regulations on the part of the Government at the same time - some considerations need to be made about the crime of illegal immigration in its first application, and also with the changes that have been submitted following the decision of the Constitutional Court. We must not forget that the original crime of illegal immigration provided for by the so-called Bossi-Fini included the immediate expulsion of those who committed the crime. The Constitutional Court then intervened by saying that, as a criminal offence, under our Constitution, one could not ignore the exercise of the right of defence which, therefore, "immediately expelled" could not have exercised its right of defence under our Constitution, since it was a crime. This has created a necessity, a complication and, I add, a utility of the norm in various respects. In fact, the requirement that the accused of a crime should be defended created the necessity that it should remain inside the reception centers for a longer period of time than expected, in order to give him precisely the time to find the lawyer, set his defense, wait for the debate and so on; debate that has turned out to be completely non-existent, I would say useless - and this is also said by the judicial offices, not only professional orders - because against people unable to defend themselves and much less to serve the penalty, in the vast majority of cases of a pecuniary nature, as they are unable in fact to fulfil. The arrangement has therefore been transformed only into an extension of the stay at the centers (six months rather than two), at the end of which, however, are placed with sheet of way in the territorial tissue next to the center and then disperse. In fact, I understand that only a percentage very close to zero observes the requirement for return provided for by the leaflets, issued following the end of the detention period. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced of the opportunity to review this matter, especially for matters of public expenditure, because we know very well that when the exercise of the right of defence turns into defence assisted by the public becomes a burden not indifferent to the exchequer. I am therefore not alien to the fact that we can intervene on the decriminalisation of this type of crime and its transformation into an administrative offence. However, a number of precautions are needed, which are not indicated in the standard. This should not become the precondition for this decriminalization to be applied also to those who repeat the crime or to those who ignore the prescription, subsequent to the administrative wrongdoing, of having to return through the return order. We need to be clear about this. We can modify the plant, but we cannot allow this change to mean that the recipient of the measure can freely disregard it without increasing its position. Therefore, this provision must also be absolutely specified in its contents. It is true that this is a delegation but, I repeat, we are accustomed, even following the principles of the Constitution a little bit, to the fact that the delegations are more detailed and detailed and less then offer opportunities for debate and controversy, especially when the Government exercises them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alì, please finish. D'ALI' (NCD). Yes, Madam President. On this point we would like to be absolutely clear: we can consider the modification in administrative illegality, because it also responds to the practical needs of the judicial organization of our country, with regard therefore also to the costs that are connected to it. However, we cannot allow this to become the possibility for a free, repeated and indiscriminate movement of those who are the subject of the first administrative offence measure. So, in short, the recurrence of contra legem behavior must always be identified as a crime, and above all it must include the material execution of the expulsion order. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u13	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a measure which came from the House in a different text from the one we are discussing today and which, in the other branch of Parliament, has also found great consensus as it contains some positive provisions. I am thinking, for example, of the testing, particularly of young people, because it is shown that there is a decrease in the recurrence of the crime by young people in case of testing. There is the possibility of interrupting the trial and then, if the crime is repeated, it is resumed and the sentence and the sentence become much more severe. The bill therefore contains positive aspects, such as the remodulation of the sentence and home detention. However, on 9 October 2013, the Senate Justice Commission approved an amendment limiting the crime of illegal immigration, a crime introduced by the Berlusconi Government in 2009, with the now famous security package of the then Interior Minister Maroni. The introduction of this crime has already given results; in fact, if we go to see the arrivals of immigrants in our country, from 2009 to today they have been decreasing, while until 2009 they increased every year. Moreover, if we look at the percentages of foreigners present in Italian prisons - of course not because there is a connection between foreign status and criminal act, but because we are talking about penalties - until 2009 they have been increasing, reaching 37 percent while from 2009 onwards, every year until today, they mark a decrease, until 34.95 percent of 31 December 2013. Why is that? It is evident that the presence of the crime suggests. No one escapes that the Senate amendment was approved on 9 October 2013, just the day that Barroso and the President of the Council Letta went to Lampedusa as a result of that very serious fact that he saw the death of 366 people at sea, but the boatmen responsible for those events, those sellers of death, certainly have to think more about committing crimes if they are then connected to illegal immigration. Probably there was a more than understandable psychological uprising, but we also think that the deterrent of the crime is so practical, as the numbers show, that psychological, and not only has the symbolic value, which however is so much. In saying this, I must point out that the geographical characteristics of our country, which has very long coasts and is the door to Europe, lend themselves to these arrivals. Moreover, our country has a DNA based on the reception: just think of all voluntary associations - I quote Caritas - that work for the people who come here to work, because they want to improve the quality of life for them and their families, for which the arms are open, of course. Who has come to work respecting the rules and laws, in our country has always found the maximum reception. Different for those who come with other ideas. However, to come to our country you have to have a job; to live in decent conditions you have to have a job. As we know, the demands of industrialists and economic groups have also declined in recent years, because there is an economic crisis and the chances of working are lower. When you come out of the numbers established for the flows of workers that serve our country (and for which, I repeat, your arms are open) there is the risk, even for those who come only to work and want to respect the rules, to fall victim to black labor and exploiters. This is not good and we cannot accept it. On the other hand, those who come for criminals must not be able to enter our country, and if they do so in a clandestine way, a crime must be foreseen that performs a double function of deterrent, psychological and real. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Council]] Well, then, those who come to work; not well those who come to criminals. The amendment, introduced with an amendment, to article 2, paragraph 3, letter b), concerning the abolition of the crime of clandestineness gives a different meaning to this provision, which also had been built with the contribution of all (I could quote Senators Caliendo and Palma) and which to the House had a much simpler iter. I come from Veneto, where, as you know, we have a great tradition of hospitality. At the same time, however, with illegal immigration, being the North East a rich area, we also experience the great phenomenon, unfortunately, of crime. I repeat, the criminal is always criminal, whether Italian or foreign. A person not delinque for the color of the skin, for the religion or for the culture: delinque. Of course we to those who do not come with the will to contribute to the growth of our country, but only to criminals, so I also influence the feeling of perceived insecurity, very felt in our cities, we cannot open the doors. When we ask our citizens what is the biggest problem they have to face, they answer us: security. If we then talk to the representatives of the Forces of Order we are confirmed that the problem is real, but also that there is a question of perception of insecurity, also because of those small criminal acts that commit those who have not found a job and therefore cannot live dignifiedly, perhaps because it was not part of the required flows, which then affect the quality of life of our citizens. This measure also provided for many positive measures, but it was changed in this passage between the House and the Senate with the abolition of a crime whose introduction had given results since 2009 today. Numbers have no political color. If the curves with regard to arrivals in our country and the number of foreign prisoners in our country (I have already said that the scheme of delinquency-stranger connection does not belong to me and does not belong to our political force, this is not the reasoning I want to make), they have followed a certain course, something will mean. These are the numbers, which, I repeat, have no political color. The abolition of this crime has lived in all parts of the country, but above all in ours, as an interference in the life and safety of citizens, and that is why this change cannot be judged positively. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u15	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation of extreme discomfort and embarrassment in order to have to deal with these issues and these issues for the umpteenth time. We are faced with yet another measure of this Government that can be called really empty prisons. Technically, we are talking about alternative measures to prison detention, so we are being tested, released, house arrests, but we must pay attention to what we are talking about. To people, that is, who have ended up in prison for committing crimes, with sentence of imprisonment, therefore for serious crimes and of strong impact, which create social alarm, we are saying that they have a discounted penalty, that they can go out, that they can serve this penalty comfortably sitting in the living room of their own house or even have facilities. This, therefore, really presents itself as a measure that opens the doors of the prison to those who have committed crimes, even heinous ones (we have already heard from my group's colleagues before me the very hard list of the types of crime that are being discussed here), that are safely released, and therefore they can enjoy facilities that result, in the eyes of all citizens of common sense and of all citizens who have been victims of crimes, absolutely unacceptable, because they are seen as naturally shameful measures. We on this measure, as well as on the previous ones and those accompanying them to this (I remember that in these days the House is talking about a provision of indult that is even worse than the previous similar measures), we will always put ourselves in a position of absolute and firm opposition. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] What we want to say in this House and to which we really want to draw the attention of our colleagues and the Government is the fact that, first of all, this is an unlawful measure, which is not justified, for a number of reasons. The first, to which I have referred before and on which I will go into more detail, is that this measure violates a fundamental and unavoidable principle, which is that of public security for citizens and public order. A second principle that fails is the certainty of punishment. This is not a serious country, because it does not guarantee the certainty of the penalty, it does not guarantee that penalties are imposed commensurate with the type of crime and the seriousness of the crimes committed, and therefore violates the foundations of a rule of law, and this is absolutely unacceptable. This is therefore a measure which we are opposed to both the method and the substance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Moreover, I would point out that this is certainly not a topic that falls within the priorities of this country. The citizens outside of here ask, colleagues, to solve the problem that lies upstream, as the Government tells us, to this series of measures that puts in place, that is, the problem of prison overcrowding (which, for charity, is felt and really asks to be faced in a serious way and with great reflections), but not addressing it in this way, which is simply demagogic and instrumental, and responds rather to a requirement of this Government to mask its incompetencies and inefficiencies in many other points of view and in many other fields, addressing issues that can have this media impact, but that actually hide the shortcomings of the Government. But it is not a priority, because the priority, ladies and gentlemen, for citizens, for families, for businesses, is economic measures, measures to help families reach the end of the month and businesses to be able to carry out their business and to survive. Every day we witness the closure of companies and the flight of companies from this country, because they are not able to continue their activity: this is in fact a country that asks companies to strive to be more competitive, but in reality does not offer them any tool to be able to continue their production here and resist. In our country, companies, families, citizens are choked by a weight of taxation that has no precedent and is not even more comparable to that of other European countries more advanced than ours, who now eat the leaf in our heads, and this is a shame. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Therefore, it is not an urgent measure, and it certainly does not fall among the priorities felt by the citizen the fact of addressing with this type of instrument the age-old problem of prison overcrowding. I would point out that for many years now we have been talking about the issue, which - I repeat - is being warned and must certainly be resolved in some way; however, a serious government should do so by putting in place a real, effective, concrete and different policy of prison construction, for example by investing resources (which may be fished by the numerous pockets of inefficiencies, waste, waste of public resources that unfortunately we record every day) on other structures. I am also thinking of the policies put in place, when Minister Castelli was at the Dicastery of Justice, with a serious plan of prison building: it is a pity that then the Prodi Government put in a drawer all that structured and structured plan, which required courage, was forward-looking and asked for an investment also to the next Government, but that was not done. If we had done so then, we would probably not be talking about this problem again today. I also think of all those public buildings, of the State, unused or abandoned, that could be used in a very effective way to places of detention, with reduced costs and low staff. For example, some barracks could actually be used as places of detention, perhaps for minor crimes. This could be done immediately, giving an immediate response to the problem of prison overcrowding. I repeat, therefore, that it is not with these measures empty prisons, of indult, with the enlargements of the arms or of the jerseys of the prisons, that solves the problems. Outside, ladies and gentlemen, citizens simply feel a sense of impotence in the face of a state that is incapable of guaranteeing their safety and safety. This is unacceptable. The measure under consideration stems precisely from the need and will of the majority to shift some attention from the real problems that the government cannot tackle, because it is at the mercy of the cross-ceilings of their respective parties that support it and fail to agree; it is under the control of the diktats of the European Union, and therefore is unable, except to look at a rigorous holding of accounts under European dictation, to put in place a serious policy, programmatic, to invest in the economy and development. As I have already pointed out, this measure is unlawful in so many respects. First of all, the principle of the certainty of the penalty, of the effectiveness and of the effectiveness of the penalty is lacking. Therefore, the real, concrete result that is perceived is that this type of measure creates real serious damage to citizens, also because of the consequences in terms of respect for public order, security and also economic and social. The statistical data (we do not support it from the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group), also in possession of the Minister of Justice as well as of the Minister of the Interior, point out that a delinquent returns to crime within a few months from being released or can take advantage of facilities, discounts of punishment or house arrests, and thus returns to prison causing an increase of additional costs to deal with the disputes, the judgments, an increase for the Forces of order that once again have to go on the field to comply, and a whole series of further disbursements. Therefore, the problem of prison overcrowding is from time to time simply shifted over time, without producing any results. The criminals only return to criminals and thus create further harm, again committing heinous crimes to the detriment of the citizens themselves. So there is a strong social and economic impact. There is no justification for such measures. We will always put ourselves sideways: our opposition to this type of measures will never fail. It is useless that you try, instrumentally and always demagogically, to be silent for those who are out of the world and anachronism. Not to mention when we deal with immigration issues and are accused of being racist, xenophobic. In this regard, I would like to publicly report to the Presidency and the Government that yesterday we were the victims of real insults from our neighbors' desks... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biinella, please don't film yesterday's episode, because there's plenty for everyone. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry, but it is necessary to do so, because while we are trying to argue seriously, motivatedly and on the subject, someone from other quarters is making unfair accusations, not to say outright insults. This is unacceptable, and I, on behalf of the whole Group, will no longer accept it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I do not intend to accept that those who, like us, carry on the voices, rights and reasons of the citizens who are out of here and who face this kind of problem every day are silenced and apostrofied as the usual ugly, dirty, bad and racist ligistic. This is an uncivilized behavior that we will no longer accept! What we want to do instead is speak with common sense and motivate our reasons on the basis of data with serious arguments. We contest the policies put in place by this Government, by the Minister, for example, of integration but also by the Minister of Justice Chancellors, with objective data, with the real confrontation with the citizens, with the real confrontation with those who in the local administrations (I say this by addressing my colleagues who, perhaps, are very busy on the Net, but are not present in the local administrations and do not know how they work, how, for example, the sector of social services, whose resources are almost exhausted [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ) have to deal with the issues of social and health care, the assistance of non-EU residents. We don't resent non-EU people who regularly enter our country. I remember, among other things, that according to the legislation on immigration contained in the Bossi-Fini law those who enter this country do so regularly, with titles that are justified by a contract of employment that guarantees the ability to have a housing and a survival income. Those who do not meet these requirements are not entitled to enter. When we talk about uncontrolled immigration and, as in this measure, the crime of illegal immigration, we refer to those who enter our state illegally, illegally, without reason and without title. We believe that for those who have needs of humanitarian protection the appropriate procedures of control and verification should be carried out both in the country of belonging and then, possibly, in our country in a serious and controlled manner. All those who enter thinking that they can move freely away from the controls of our country, I remember, enter Italy irregularly and illegally: their title is that of illegal immigrants. Persons in need of protection for humanitarian reasons or in relation to refugee status shall be subject to identification, verification and control procedures. We are talking about all those who do not have the opportunity to maintain such controls, who do not have an employment contract and, therefore, an income. What do they live on? Where will they go? What are they gonna do? Very often, in the vast majority of cases (it is documented by the data in possession of our various structures), they find themselves on the streets to delinquere. Do we really want to put in place a serious policy of controlling migratory flows, which is in their own interest? In fact, if we create favourable conditions, if we make sure that they are helped in their countries of origin, with an assumption of responsibility for the whole of Europe, and not just for our country, with a serious policy of integration and accountability, then perhaps we can really help them. Help them first of all in their home, and help those who really need it, by letting the people who have their title and a job contract into our country to do so. But I remember one thing. We are a country where even regular immigration flows are not sustainable right now: I repeat, even regular immigration flows are not sustainable. Let's talk clearly maybe you don't realize, too busy with these classrooms or the network, and you don't have the real perception of what's going on outside, in the municipalities and in the cities: there's not a single job for our Italian fellow citizens, there's no job now for the under 30 or the over 50, who can't find another job. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We're experiencing a dramatic crisis, businesses close every day, they can't take it anymore. We have a bunch of unincorporated and unemployed people who have no income from work and do not know how to support their families. I say we can't even welcome an extra regular immigrant anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Do we really want to think about solving these problems first, with serious economic policies that invest in detaxation, growth and development? It is no longer possible to pursue such demagogic policies. It is unacceptable, and citizens do not accept it. In the reality of the municipalities and local administrations that, with the few resources they have, make the mortal leaps to get ahead, one of the really most difficult sectors - I live as a local administrator - is that of social services. We are trying to keep up a budget by cutting where everything and more is possible, because of the Stability Pact, the constraints we know, the problems of finding resources, the lack of state transfers and all the taxes that we must apply to our fellow citizens, precisely so as not to affect the social services sector. But have you ever looked - and I also tell colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - at the rankings of those who have the benefit of being able to access socio-health services? The first places on the long lists are almost all of non-EU citizens, and not of our fellow citizens and our families, who are equally in need. The same applies to popular housing assignments and to many other benefits. Where there are careful administrators, one tries in some way to settle their respective needs in one's own territories and even in the rankings one tries to make the right assignments. But we can no longer think of widening the meshes of welcome for the purposes of fake goodness, without considering the real problems and without taking into account how then our fellow citizens and immigrants who arrive in our country are then forced to live, with the dramatic crisis - I keep remember - that we face every day. You can't go on like this anymore. The country's priorities are different. The message given to citizens, in the face of measures such as this umpteenth emptying of prisons or of indult, is that of a state that surrenders: a surrender of the state in the face of its inability to put serious policies in the field. Madam President, allow me to conclude my speech by making one final point. I heard yesterday, in addition to the demagogic insults that come from the benches of the left and the 5 Star Movement...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u16	The insults have been censored, so please do not take this up again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u17	Please, Senator Biinella, continue. Bisinella (LN-Aut). I want to censor them publicly, because we are tired of being appealed in this way. I would also like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that perhaps we could give you the subscription to "La Padania" and advise you to listen to Radio Padania, because perhaps it would be useful to understand what people really think, those things that citizens really ask for. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]] You would learn many things of common sense, of practical sense, from those who struggle every day to survive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u18	I would like to greet the students and students of the Technical Commercial Institute for Geometries (Camilli) in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u19	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u20	Mr President, the measure we are dealing with today presents two further aspects, which are involved - or rather, are intended to intervene - to change its nature and on which I think a moment of reflection must be made. The first of these two aspects concerns the repeal of the crime of illegal immigration: on October 9, 2013, the Senate Justice Commission approved an amendment that provides for the elimination of the crime of illegal immigration. It was examined on the day when the President of the Council, accompanied by President Barroso, was in Lampedusa: therefore, the wave of emotions following the shipwreck, in which 366 refugees tragically died, led the Senate Commission to approve the amendment tabled by the 5 Star Movement, but supported by both SEL and the Democratic Party. This amendment abolishes the crime of clandestineity for immigrants who reside in a non-regular way in Italy, but all the procedures for expulsion and all other offences included in the famous Bossi-Fini law remain in place. The crime of illegal immigration is therefore transformed into an administrative offence. The crime was introduced by the Berlusconi Government in 2009, in the famous security package of the so-called Maroni law. Well, I think it would be appropriate to remember, in an excursus, how in Italy the need to regulate the aspect of illegal immigration has been present for a long time: in fact the first law to intervene in this matter was the so-called Turkish-Napolitano, the law n. 40 of 1998, which outlined for the first time an organic vision on immigration and established the famous centers of temporary stay. These measures were precisely in the logic of trying to prevent, or limit, illegal immigration, which would undoubtedly have led to serious problems of various kinds to the country and the nation. Subsequently, in 2002, the Bossi-Fini law was passed, which is mistakenly - as I mentioned earlier - considered to be the measure that introduced the crime of illegality, but which is instead the law that linked the residence permit to the actual performance of a job and which provided for a strong tightening of the penalties for human traffickers. With regard to the fight against illegal immigration, I would like to remind you that in my region (Puglia) there are very clear examples of how it can be opposed and how immigration, when it is not illegal and is not 100% open to anyone who wants to come to Italy, can be controlled, according to the spirit of the same law Bossi-Fini, for which can arrive in Italy who has a confirmed work permit. You will remember in fact that in Puglia we experienced the first vast phenomena of wild immigration, when from Albania began to arrive ships loaded with human beings, crammed in an unworthy way, that Puglia welcomed, and tried to do it to the best of its possibilities, as far as possible, since it was for the first time faced with a phenomenon of this type. In time, however, thanks to the various successive governments and the commitment of the Italian and Albanian governments, a condition for controlling immigration has been created. After that, the Bossi-Fini law, which created a link between the coming to Italy and the work permit, made sure that many of the members of the Albanian communities who arrived in Italy regularly integrated themselves and became an important reality and indeed a resource for our Region. Subsequently, as we recalled, the Maroni law - the famous security package - was passed in which the crime of illegal immigration was foreseen. But this was not a novelty: it was almost an adaptation of Italy to what was happening and taking place in almost all the countries of Europe. We cannot, in fact, forget that in many countries fines, repatriations and prisons are provided for illegal immigration and, in the presence of cases of relapse, there are even penalties much more severe than what we expect in Italy. There are countries, such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Austria and also Denmark, where the crime of clandestineness is quietly provided for by law. Now I do not see why this should not happen in Italy, which is one of the nations most exposed to its geographical position, being Europe's source, especially towards Africa, to that world from which today we come waves of wild and illegal immigration. Over 10,000 illegal immigrants enter Italy every year, causing major social and security problems. We cannot forget that, according to the ranking of crimes committed in 2013, almost a third of those committed for drugs, against the heritage and against the person was carried out by foreigners today detained in Italian prisons. So, this danger is essentially recorded when there is no control, when there is no rule. Today we say that we respect the various points of view and understand the objections raised. But we also have a duty to make everyone understand that in Italy there must be respect for the rules and, in order to have such respect, there must be a precise, hard and necessary position towards anyone who thinks that he can come to our country to do what he wants. Those who come from abroad and want criminals must know that in Italy they will not find easy ground. For that reason, on this point, when we proceed to the examination of the articles, we will be for the repeal of Article 2 (3) in particular of letter b). After that, the other choice that is surreptitiously intended to be introduced into the measure under consideration and to try to make passage, that the present high-risk profiles, not only social but also for the health of citizens, is the liberalisation of light drugs. It is a long-standing project at both parliamentary and legislative level, but it has never had the chance to come about, and we add: thankfully. The danger of the liberalisation of drugs, albeit slight, goes against scientific evidence and common sense and creates serious damage to the increase in the spread of drugs and to the consequences on the health of citizens. The differentiation of drugs between light and heavy has little foundation, since they are still drugs whose effects on the organism are devastating. They can change the times of how these effects occur, but in both cases they are devastating: we have irreparable damage to the central nervous system; they cause serious diseases; they often lead to even more serious forms of drug addiction. Rightly in the scientific field it is said that there are no light drugs that do not hurt and heavy drugs that hurt, but various types of drugs, which are still depressing, stimulating and hallucinogenic. These are the differences, and not the differences - I repeat - between light drugs and heavy drugs. For this reason, this attempt, as well as that concerning the decriminalization of the crime of clandestineness, I think must be for us two bastions that cannot and must not be overcome, if we want to guarantee the strength of a state and its ability to preserve its entire population, and in particular the young generations, from the serious risks of social tensions and for individuals. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u21	Madam President, I would like to say at once that I will, of course, briefly outline the measures contained in draft law No 925, which, not only personally but as a group, we have shared, and I will also point out the reasons for concern, which concern only some of the regulatory aspects contained in the measure under discussion. As for the first of the aspects that I anticipated, namely that relating to the provisions of the whole shared, I would like to point out that having provided for imprisonment and house arrests among the main penalties has a meaning that goes in the direction of an enrichment of the arsenal sanctions, therefore of a diversification of the penalties in prison sentences but not prison sentences, which certainly constitutes the achievement of an extremely important objective in the direction of an effective reduction of the prison load. Not only will the violations punished with the penalty of arrest be punished with the arrest at home, therefore with a prison sentence but not a prison sentence, but also the crimes punished with a sentence ranging from three years to five years of imprisonment, even through conversion criteria and the inevitable appeal to Article 133 of the penal code (the rule regulating the discretion of the judge), can be punished with the imprisonment at home, therefore with a prison sentence, punitive but so as not to aggravate the already serious and delicate problem of overcrowding in prison. Moreover, the introduction into the penal code of the judgment of no place to proceed because of the criminal relevance of the fact is not negligible. On this point, I would like to point out that this provision, which is also the culmination of a position which the Italian doctrine, in particular, has supported, since the 1960s, has been the subject of extensive experimentation already in the context of the provisions laid down in the matter of crimes committed by minor defendants. It therefore introduces a rule that effectively reduces the criminal burden, but above all the burden on criminal convictions, for facts, yes, offensive, but poorly offensive. It is, therefore, also a provision in this case which, as I mentioned in relation to arrest and imprisonment, goes in the sense of reducing convictions. I should like to point out that, without reducing the quantity, the number of convictions, the problem of prison overcrowding is bound to get worse and, of course, never to be resolved. The same applies to the so-called testing and the possibility, in this case too, of transferring to the ordinary judgment against the accused older than age an institute which has been extensively tested since 1989, in relation to offences committed by minor defendants. The concerns, which the Group to which I belong has already expressed and which also emerge during the debate which began this morning in this House, concern the issue of illegal immigration and so-called soft drugs. I reverse the order of discussion of the topics mentioned above by beginning to talk about light drugs. I believe that any reduction in drug control is, in the meantime, extremely dangerous because it is based on absolutely uncertain scientific grounds: we do not yet have a serious distinction between soft drugs and heavy drugs, so we lack - we could say - what should be, in a certain sense, the anticipation of the problem, that is, a serious scientific demonstration that can demonstrate the division of the harmful effects of one amazing substance from the other. The problem is therefore already falsified by the lack of scientific evidence which is able, precisely in the medical field, to distinguish the effects of one substance from another. Therefore, talking about a distinction already is something that is refuted by itself. There is also another extremely important aspect which concerns the same problem. Medical science, for the part concerning the addictive effects of so-called light drugs (but I repeat that this is a definition of convenience that does not have a safe scientific basis), has always recognized, with an extremely high probability rate, the fact that the use of light drugs is introductory to the use of drugs that read certainly cannot be defined. So there is no doubt that we would fail to have a fundamental principle in every Parliament, namely the protection of the health of the people, if, in an attempt to favour forms of permissiveness and liberalism in matters which would not deserve access to situations that dilate, allow and promote consumption, we favour the use of light drugs today, leading to the absolutely concrete risk that an addiction to the use of these substances would be introductory to the use of heavy drugs. Parliament, I repeat for the second time, cannot fail to have a fundamental duty, which is to protect the health of its citizens. I now come to the extremely controversial issue, but I have already dealt with a great deal this morning in the Senate, relating to Article 10-a of Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998. Well, I agree, for what my individual point of view is worth, that crime punished with prison sentence alone does not denote any criminalistic specificity. It could be argued that the provision of the prison sentence alone is already an indication of the administrative nature of the offence. Here, however, the observation is not fitting. Meanwhile, decriminalization introduces a vacuum of protection in a matter that would have deserved an overall redefinition. In other words, we have a decriminalization that takes account of the lack of an overall reinterpretation of a subject that would have deserved on the contrary an overall settlement. It should also be noted that decriminalization will undoubtedly have a psychological effect encouraging illegal entry into the Italian territory, but it must be said that in this specific matter the use of the crime punished with only pecuniary penalty, which could in general constitute a sort of irrational solution, found, on the contrary, its justification in the fact that the administrative expulsion, i.e. the use of instruments relating to the control of the illegals only administrative, had demonstrated a radical ineffectiveness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. D'ASCOLA (NCD). For this reason, I believe that the penal solution, also because of some references in the repeated judgments of the Constitutional Court, had its justification. I conclude by saying that the repeal would leave a void of complete protection not only in the matter of recurrence of entry, but of rebellion against the expulsion order despite the forecasts contained in Articles 13 and 14 of Legislative Decree No 286 of 25 July 1998. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u22	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I have had the opportunity to attend the conference 'The necessary clemency'. Amnesty and indult and reform of justice last month at the Zuccari Hall of Palazzo Giustiniani. Important and authoritative speakers and well-known experts on the subject have gone on to indicate only one possible and practicable way to allow us to restore to constitutional and supranational legality the living conditions in our prisons. I believe that we all agree in this House that an adequate policy of reform of the penal and penitentiary system must be done quickly and well and that we cannot be open-mindedly opposed to any innovative proposal. The urgent need for immediate action is clear. The data on overcrowding and the painful conditions of the prison system are merciless. Certainly the measures on which we are debating today give a significant response, such as the amendments to the criminal code in the matter of suspension of the proceedings with the trial, as well as the amendments to the code of criminal procedure in the matter of preliminary hearing, all of which tend to do so and must be seen positively. However, the systematic evaluation, which I believe must be carried out and on which the political debate must focus, in my opinion concerns the very concept of clemency and therefore the two legal aspects of the need or not of the use of the two institutions of amnesty and indult available to national law. Italy must respond next May to the pilot judgment of the European Court of Human Rights for violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, an article entitled 'Prohibition of torture'. Moreover, and not of last importance, we know that Italy has been systematically condemned for at least thirty years for violating Article 6, that is for the unreasonable duration of the trials. On this absurd figure arises the need for the debate on amnesty, which at this point could serve the magistrates to dispose of from their desks the more than 5 million criminal proceedings pending and to put an end to the occult amnesty of the prescriptions, which at the rate of 160,000 per year kill the proceedings, without there being any civil and political responsibility at the head of the State. The former watchmen Severino spoke of a 3% increase in criminal proceedings pending in 2012, so it means that the problem tends to increase and not to subside. A significant legislative turning point, aimed at the fight against denied justice, which occurs when the sentence reaches too many years from the crime, has not yet begun. This is a significant vulnus to which the Government must remedy immediately. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAPp and Mixed-SEL Groups and the Senator Lo Giudice.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u24	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to stress the danger of demagogic, hasty and propagandistic decisions on immigration. The whole of the measure also contains necessary and useful measures, and I appreciate the work that has been done for many chapters in the Commission on justice by its President and by those who followed the work. However, the inclusion of this rule, which provides for the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration, as far as I am concerned, makes reference to the examination of the measure. I had no wonder that some parliamentary groups, the triggers in particular, wanted this rule, because I have always perceived it as a reality on the left, which is mainly left-wing. So the discussions, which are obviously a fact that belongs to the free autonomy of that political movement, and also the results of consultations on the Network have not surprised me at all. It is a movement that carries forward thesis and demands of the left. This fact also makes it possible to clarify in the face of public opinion where we stand, who is on the one hand and who on the other, on choices of fundamental importance. As a supporter of a bipolar vision of politics, I believe that this serves to clarify things. The reason why I think it is wrong to include this rule is that, beyond technicalism, the subject is undoubtedly complex, since the crime of illegal immigration often, in its actual implementation, has led to difficulties in managing it. The subject has been regulated in the course of history by numerous laws and makes me laugh to see the protest against the temporary residence centers, today called CIE. I remember in fact that they were established by a Minister of the Interior of the Nineties called Giorgio Napolitano, current president of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Those centers were introduced by the Turkish-Napolitan law, which tried to introduce the possibility of having non-citizens vote in the local elections: it was the undersigned who had that rule removed, pointing out something trivial (but it did not seem that way to the Prodi government of the time), that is to say that it is the Constitution that sanctioned that it is the citizens who vote, and therefore there could not be the right to vote administratively. Since then, the revision of the Constitution has fortunately not been done and the Italians have voted. Foreigners who come to Italy can acquire citizenship following a path of a certain type. Personally, I am opposed to the deletion of this rule because of its propaganda and announcement effect, because of the debate that has taken place: abolishing that crime is then linked to all the demagogic, absurdly open-minded policies that are feeding on these years, I would say in these days and in particular by some political sectors of the left. Italy is not a racist country: Italy is a country that has welcomed and welcomes millions of foreigners [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] ; Italy is a country that allows, after ten years of stay in our country, to obtain citizenship, and with the achievement of the age of having citizenship for those born in our country. We can discuss some aspects of this law: first it took five years to stay then to ten in the early 1990s; we will reflect on these aspects. But we do not want a path that starts from the abolition of the crime and then arrive at a policy of greater favor than the Italians for foreigners and finally to the automatic ius solo, an absurd norm that we will never be able to accept in this country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] So, the debate in progress is basically a matter of substance. Other colleagues have noted the number of crimes; I was last in touch with Mr Marin and others who have spoken. We have no prejudice, but it is a fact that opening the country's doors in a demagogic way to people who cannot have a job means opening doors to despair, for a country - and Amoruso remembers it before - that on the story of Albania and on many other occasions has demonstrated unlimited generosity. We don't want this ad effect: Enter, come! Geography already exposes us in a certain way. We are in the middle of the Mediterranean, and if anyone takes a boat from the coast of Africa, he does not meet Denmark or Norway but Italy. Therefore, we are already the recipients of a flow that often flows to other European countries that are not generous. I would also like to stress here that before we make demagogic rules, we must demand that Europe take responsibility for those who arrive here, that if they are refugees they must be welcomed by everyone and if they are illegal they must be removed from Europe. As a center-right, we made the policy of bilateral agreements. I remember that the Berlusconi Government also made them with Gaddafi's Libya, which could be nice or unpathetic, but that was the leadership in that country at that time. Today we do not know who is there, and I also say this to the many Arab Spring assertors: the dictatorships were ugly and to be demolished, but chaos is dangerous, also for migratory flows and for our security. Today in Libya, Egypt and elsewhere there is more chaos than democracy. The policy of the Berlusconi governments of bilateral agreements that blocked the departures from Libya was far-sighted. We must not cry the day after the massacres in the Mediterranean: we must act the day before to block the departures organized by the traffickers of death! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] That is what we said then and we repeat today. Yes, we give the Nobel Prize to Lampedusa, an island that has shown great generosity, but it is our job to make policies to avoid the tragedies that have occurred. In other years the number of illegal entrances decreased and those policies of greater severity, both from the administrative and criminal point of view and from the point of view of international agreements, also gave satisfactory results in the reception, linked to the decrees on flows and the possibility of finding work in our country. This choice can therefore open up a wrong policy and I must say that without any racism we can also criticize Mr Kyenge, otherwise there would be racism on the contrary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Groups and Senator Zanettin]] It is not that if a minister has his own personal history he is immune from mistakes: I personally do not share the policy of Minister Kyenge and the critic and context, democratically and freely, in Parliament, as many others have contested the positions of other ministers or of those of us who had responsibility for government. There is no racial prejudice on the contrary, so it is necessary to give reason to a person: in civil, democratic and polite ways everyone can be criticized, and the constant announcements of Kyenge in the matter of immigration policies are themselves reason of danger to our country, because they encourage everyone to come, contributing to the tragedies that, afterward, come from everyone, rightly, highlighted with pain. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Another issue that is dealt with in the measure is the issue of drug addiction, and another debate has opened. I address my colleagues with whom we have shared a long journey: dear colleagues in the New Right Centre, after the positions on the issues of security, immigration, the family and drugs, after the daily slaps in the face by Renzi, what else must happen to you so that you realize that this is a left-wing government that harasses the house, favours foreigners, massacres the family and does not deserve your consent and your support? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I say this politely to colleagues with whom I have shared and share political experiences on these and other issues: there are also rules on drugs in this measure, and I want to say that we must not give rise to another demagogic debate, because drugs are all bad! There are hundreds of scientific reports that claim that so-called light drugs have very serious consequences. Cannabis interferes with and modifies normal brain maturation, and the consequences are all the more serious the earlier the consumption of these types of narcotics, which create damage to memory capacity, concentration and a whole range of activities. The active substances contained in cannabis are deposited in the body of those who consume it and create irreversible consequences. Therefore the trivialization pursued also through some amendments tabled on the measure in the debate on drugs is a serious mistake. And to those who talk about legalization and liberalisation to fight the mafias I recall a famous speech that Paolo Borsellino gave in 1989, saying that it was an illusion to fight the mafia by legalizing drugs, because the mafia would trade other drugs and do business in other sectors. Our fight against all forms of legalization and drug liberalisation is a battle for life, health and justice and does not contradict our commitment to combat crime. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u26	Senator Gasparri, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u27	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm done, ma'am. Thank you. I believe that the measure, as I said at the beginning, in many ways contains important aspects but, if it is not changed on the subject of immigration, it will certainly not be able to have my vote and my consent. Do we want to reform justice? All right, but let's start with the Italians, the problem of prisons and the many priority issues, and not overturning legislation by doing a favor to illegality and those merchants of death who... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u28	Senator Gasparri, the time is over, but finish the sentence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u29	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). ...the longer the rules are, the more they can be encouraged in their ugly trade! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to remind you of the context in which we are dealing with this debate: it is good to recall that with several recommendations the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has invited the Member States to use as much as possible alternative measures to detention and to redirect their criminal policy towards the minimum use of imprisonment, with the aim, among other things, of resolving the problem of the growth of the prison population. It is the Foreign Ministers meeting at the Council of Europe, which is not a party organisation. In particular, I would like to mention the Committee's recommendation No 22 of 1999 which calls for the deprivation of liberty to be regarded as the extreme sanction to be reserved for cases where the seriousness of the crime is such as to render any other measure or sanction manifestly inadequate. Our own Constitutional Court has repeatedly asked us to make minimum use of the measure of deprivation of personal freedom. The European Court of Human Rights, in the Torreggiani judgment of 8 January 2013, condemned our country, has been mentioned several times in this House, to subject its prisoners to inhuman and degrading treatment, giving us as the last date of May of this year to deal radically with the problem if we do not want to stumble into heavier sanctions, including financial penalties. If we want to tackle this issue, we can do so without thinking and without telling ourselves that we are taking a step backwards in terms of defending the legality, certainty of the penalty and security of citizens, because that is not the case. Addressing the issue of detention with strong attention, suggested, not only from the legal point of view of the main scholars of this topic, but also from the governments of Europe, to measures articulated with respect to the mere detention within a prison, does not mean taking a step back, but instead addressing the issue with the necessary articulation to make the measures more effective. The measure of testing that we are introducing cannot be dismissed as a release tout court of those who committed a crime. It is an instrument that, even with respect to the data, which have been mentioned here, relative to its effectiveness with regard for example to minors, to which this measure is already applied, can help us defeat the phenomenon of relapse. There is the measure that involves the transformation into administrative illegal of certain crimes, which are called (I want to remind those who lie knowing to lie and talk about rapists, stalkers and thieves) abuse of popular trust, abusive theatrical representation, rest disorder: behaviors definitely censorable and illegal (these must remain), but for which it is not necessary to provide for imprisonment within the prison. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Another measure that we are introducing, that is the transformation of the prison from alternative punishment to main punishment, may be, not only a breath of oxygen for a structure that today does not make it, but also a articulation of the penalty aimed at breaking down the phenomenon of relapses. Compared to the theme of relapses, I want to remember an interesting fact. When, after the indult of 2006, an analysis was made by the Department of the Penitentiary Administration of the re-entry into prison after the indult, three very significant data emerged. The first is that the persons receiving indult who had returned to prison in the following years were percentually below the rate of relapse of those who had not benefited from it. The second: among those who had benefited from the indult, the relapse was higher percentically, not only in absolute numbers, among Italian citizens than foreign citizens, who, moreover, often stumbled in relapses not for the commission of crimes but for the irregular presence in Italy, therefore for the perpetuation of an administrative offence. The third is that the measure of relapse fell against those who had been subjected to alternative measures in prison. This shows that the alternative measures to prison, the criminal execution outside the prison walls is effective precisely in relation to the re-educational function of the sentence, which is not animated by mere goodness, but which is based on the effectiveness of the penalty as a security element for a society, as it reduces the commission of crimes. Such a policy can help to address the issue of prisons wisely. The work of the Minister of Justice Roberto Castelli, perhaps the worst Minister of Justice that Italy has ever had, has been mentioned before. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u32	Please, they're opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u33	THE COURT (PD). A minister during whose term of office there was a number of supernumerous prisoners, as has not been seen for decades, a minister during whose term of office the health expenditure for each prisoner had decreased compared to the rate of ten years before, in which the number of prisoners who had the opportunity to work had been reduced by 1,000 units. It is by the Ministers of Justice like this that we have been given a prison system that does not work and that is considered a place of torture by the European institutions. Compared to the crime of illegal immigration, the measure wanted by Minister Maroni in 2009 within that security package that is universally recognized as one of the most propaganda and less effective measures of Italian legislation is not only a wrong measure because it harms the fundamental rights of citizenship and harms the principle of non discrimination, considering criminal not who has committed a crime, but who is in a given geographical position, but does not work either, it has never worked and has not served to address the same problem that it promised to solve. 28 percent of illegal immigrants are being tracked today, compared with 49 percent in 2003. Only one in five is expelled from the country. In the CIEs that, I would like to remind Senator Gasparri, had been introduced by the Turkish-Napolitan law in application of European legislation, they were called in another way and had all the other rules and moreover set the maximum deadline of 30 days for the identification of irregular foreign persons, a term that has been moved to 60 and then today even 180 days, with an aberration compared to what the European Union itself asked us, only 38 percent of the people detained are removed from Italy, while only 1% of the irregulars in Italy are effectively removed through CIE. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the subject mentioned here of the amendments that I myself have tabled concerning the amendment of the Fini-Giovanardi drug law and the amendments relating not only to the issue of light drugs, but also to the issue of small drug-related offences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lo Giudice, I invite you to conclude. THE COURT (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. There is so much meat in the fire today, and I believe that this issue, which has already begun today, deserves a more detailed discussion, so I shall withdraw my amendments so as not to burden this debate. The subject deserves a very frank and very in-depth discussion between us, and Parliament will soon have to come back to discuss it, also because we cannot tackle the problem of prison overpopulation only from the point of view of the exit, without addressing the theme of those laws "carcerogene", from the former Cirielli to the Fini-Giovanardi, to the Bossi-Fini, which are today the main ones responsible for the inhuman overcrowding of our prisons. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u34	We greet the students and students of the Technical Institute for Social Activities of Sora, in the province of Frosinone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u36	Madam President, I rise very briefly to express a strong criticism of this measure. In fact, such delicate issues, involving adults and minors, can no longer be tackled with demagogy. Within a measure, the crime of hiding cannot be eliminated without replacing it with anything else. Here we do not eliminate the crime of clandestineness by actually giving something in return with the announcement effect. I ask, in fact, what assistance is given to these people, who do not have asylum, have no means, and who often come to Italy to travel to other nations; what is given; what is the organic plant. All this is missing. These are spot measures that do not tend to simplify, but to complicate and above all do not provide guarantees. I repeat that we cannot respond to such sensitive issues by means of these measures. Therefore, on my personal behalf - but I hope that we can immediately start serious reflection in the Group - I am speaking in extremely negative terms about the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u37	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u38	Madam President, I will address this last aspect of the measure, which has attracted almost monographic attention, not only in the last speech by Senator Mussolini, but also in those of other colleagues whom I highly esteemed, such as that of my Giovanardi Group or that of the Forza Italia Group, which Senator Malan gave. I am also thinking of the speeches made by my colleagues from the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group during yesterday's afternoon sitting, in which I must say that, beyond political merit, the adjectives of the evaluation of the current Minister Kyenge were exemplary in relation to the momentum that had characterized some woeful considerations of his friend Calderoli before the summer. Since I think it is a good parliamentary custom, I believe that what you, Madam President, rightly used as a guarantee of one person (among other things, not even present in this House), namely Mr Kyenge, should apply in our debates to everyone, including the former Minister Castelli. So, I invite you to go slow with the accelerator pedal on the adjectives. Having said that, I am referring to the report by Senator Casson yesterday morning, and indeed to the oral addition to his written report. Senator Casson made a methodological consideration that I feel I share: we are faced with a measure tending to be systematic or however less anthological and dispersive than many others. To provide a form of synthesis in the oral supplement to his written report, Senator Casson stressed the appearance of non-convict prison sentences. We have inherited some good indications from our colleagues in the House of Deputies. Obviously, in the spirit with which since the beginning of the legislature here in the Senate colleagues Nitto Palma and Caliendo had built the installation of their own bill of delegation, the delegation to the Government is to foresee a penalty that is that of house imprisonment or house arrest. I do not know if this was implicit in the considerations that Mr Lo Giudice used to make earlier, but of course he addresses the kind of crime that sociology calls the crimes of white collars, on which many times, without controls, the safari of the lightness and superficiality of prosecutors. If we want to turn all the offences for which the fine or fine alone is to be punished into administrative offences, it is clear that we are alluding to crimes that do not raise a social alarm in terms of security (if I understand the meaning of the conditions correctly). As for the two new institutions that Senator Casson pointed out yesterday - put to the test - the first (note of Senator Casson) is an institute that has given good self-esteem in the Anglo-Saxon constitutional countries. I stop here to do (or not to do, that it would be inappropriate) a consideration to which our Group will never give up in the matter of justice. Division of careers: indispensable and perhaps preliminary, before putting the Anglo-Saxon adjective in our discussions. From this point of view, by intervening in the Senate in this legislature for the first time on this matter, I must express politically our discomfort, a sense of malaise and defeat for not having reached an adequate number of signatures in that package of referendum questions on justice that, in our opinion, would have lit up lights also on the strictly parliamentary and legislative path of this legislature. At the same time I want to say, not only and not so much out of solidarity with Marco Pannella's initiatives (I do this through you, Madam President), that the message of the Head of State is still waiting, week after week, for a debate in this House. We have a little sacrificed him in the Christmas rush to examine urgent measures such as the law of stability. It is time to have a discussion between us, also because the end of prison emptying is somewhat like the shadow of Banco in many aspects of this measure. Our Group has already spoken with a general speech by Mr D'Ascola and with a speech of the kind by Senator Carlo Giovanardi of Mr Mussolini. A monographic, monothematic intervention concerning the inclusion in this text of the cancellation of the offence of entry and illegal residence in the territory of the State. In my opinion this was a mistake, which I hope we will have a chance to correct. I invite the government to meet this requirement of the Senate. In the friends of the League, perhaps there has been an excess of inruency in considering this aspect so much to speak of nothing else, but it is obviously not only a sensitivity of the League if Malan did the same in an intervention, among other things, very beautiful in which the European legislation in this matter was examined. And the same did Senator Giovanardi, also suggesting to the Government the way to go, which can only be that of graduality. We do not lie, that is, without any sense of humanity, because of the Maroni law and the Bossi-Fini law and whatever else, we hunt as criminals the caregiver who did not have the renewal of the residence permit or the student who lacked a few exams. No, it's not. For these positions, it is not true that these people were taken and expelled. There was the ritual of the trial, which then became an alibi, so at least thousands and thousands of people, since the trial was open, had the argument - the general principle of the Constitution - to stay in Italy. From this point of view, without the Jacobinism of this amendment that enters the Cesarini area, which, among other things, is badly written, we do not understand, and the risk, as I said yesterday morning to a colleague...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u39	Senator Comrade, I invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u40	Comrade (NCD). Without that inclusion, it would not only have taken advantage of the general discussion, but also the merit of the measure. Hence my invitation to the Government in the same way as it was formulated and addressed yesterday by my colleague Giovanardi and colleagues of the League. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u41	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure once again confirms the inability, now established, of a Government that does not know how to deal with such a serious and real problem with solutions that are not merely absurd and even harmful. Solutions that all do inside them except be such. This means dealing with a problem without solving it. You know this and the government knows it: with palliatives and a bill that bears a name that probably masks and hides what can be simply an indult and a false solution to the problem of prisons, nothing is solved, rather it creates a damage to our country. Overcrowding is not in fact faced by emptying the prisons and freeing prisoners with convictions for serious crimes, but it is contrasted with interventions that go in the sense of prevention, first of all. The only method to prevent, according to the North League, is the certainty of the penalty; the seriousness of the certainty of the penalty is fundamental. We are therefore absolutely opposed to this measure and will put in place all the initiatives to counter it and stop an unholy choice. The text had already been blocked in the Senate in the previous legislature, because the criticalities were and are still evident. Several things in this text did not go then and even less go today. We enter into the issues that the North League considers essential, namely security and, as already mentioned, certainty of punishment. We are talking about crimes of particular social alarm, but called minor crimes. If we can define minor crimes as those involving penalties of up to five years, then they will be decriminalised. If we can define minor crimes as theft, scam, concealment, stalking, violence, even child pornography and - I shall talk about it later - illegal immigration. I want to stress this by sharing the thoughts of the whole Group: these are crimes that involve social alarm at an already difficult time because of a heavy economic reality that is now unsustainable. Our people do not have a job and do not arrive at the end of the month, the economy does not start again, the companies close, the entrepreneurs are forced to make drastic choices. Let's think about Veneto, where suicides are unfortunately a heavy but daily fact, because many do not make it anymore. What are we talking about? The problem at the moment is not the economy, but the empty-carriage measure. Definitely that of the prisons is a problem and a social emergency, but not the primary emergency that the country is currently facing, which instead is outside the doors and waiting for concrete answers. So, as I was saying, this is a wrong and rewarding measure, but to the sole benefit of those who commit crimes. We must stop with the goodness that justifies everything and everyone, by blaming society, which creates these poor people, these poor people! - who have no other way of surviving than to commit crimes. This is an absurd and offensive excuse for those who live and work with honesty, respecting the rules and others, for people who choose to live honestly, despite a thousand difficulties, without seeking excuses to live in lawlessness. But what message do we want to give with this provision? We want to tell the world that Italy is a country where everything can be done, so that we can say: I go to Italy, so I can steal and I don't risk anything, at the limit of a few days at home, maybe even at hours or, I don't know, on shifts. This is the message that is coming out: we will have a circulation of criminals, days or hours apart. You could also provide an incentive for work, a new regulation, such as a vertical or horizontal part-time at will of the recluse, identifying the days or hours of detention at your home. Or we may also decide to make a list of preferred locations. Are you kidding me? What message do we give this country? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have seen how the Law on Indult, No. 241 of 2006, which the North League has opposed and on which, of course, it has not voted in favour, has failed, since 85% of the beneficiaries have returned to crime. We can say that the North League has always opposed populism and goodness, expressed for a vote, for an exchange of preferences or choices and not according to the logic of the defence of the citizens. Let us therefore consider the further negative effects of this measure. Where does the educational function of punishment go if we want to talk about the education and integration of these people? We educate them by giving them freedom of action, the freedom to take away freedom from honest citizens, who in this country, fortunately, are still many. And we come to the madness of abolishing the crime of illegal immigration, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement. I am sorry, but this can only be called madness: open doors and the right to embark for Italy, with consequences not only economic for the country, but also without any respect for those people who, given false hopes, will arrive in Italy, with the ways we have seen in recent years, trying to make sure that it does not happen again. They will arrive with the boats, which will go deeper, and immigrants, with their dream of reaching a country that will give them nothing, will die in the middle of the sea. This is what you will do: this is the future you will give to these people. I believe that you are really wrong, in the face of respect for the citizens, who certainly did not vote for you to have a less secure country, in which honest people, who have always worked there, find themselves at the bottom of the list of priorities. I repeat: people are already experiencing a moment of social crisis, conflicts and economic difficulties. Our role is to give security, not to exasperate discomfort, not to counter these situations. Our task is to give work and therefore not only relief to hire prisoners, but relief to hire first the citizens who have always worked honestly in this country. Let us return to the problem of the overcrowding of prisons: 40% of the prisoners are non-EU citizens and in some parts of the North we reach a percentage of 60% or 70%. Should we therefore take charge of this? Can we take charge of this right now? Can we suffer crimes and also suffer the obligation to serve the sentence in the country in which they were committed, taking away resources from honest citizens, families and entrepreneurs? Can we not, then, talk about hypocrisy in acting? Instead, we must take concrete action, create new work, bring our country and our citizens back to life, so that we can eventually accept immigrants who enter our country honestly and regularly. No one has ever wanted to wage war on immigrants just because they are outside the EU, but in this case we are talking about illegal immigrants: this is a very different concept. There is a crime that arises precisely from this situation and from the impossibility of giving them work and the future. Let's stop talking about "A" and "B" crime. Crime is just crime and as such must be fought and our citizens must be defended. Bilateral return agreements are needed. These people have to serve their time in their country where, unlike Italy, dear gentlemen, the penalty is certain and prisons - pass me the joke - are certainly not five-star hotels. And then the law enforcement? Who works there? What respect instead for these workers? What guarantees for those who, every day, fight crime and put at risk, at risk their lives, I say not without economic incentives, but even under paid and under organic, and discouraged by measures that like this will surely reduce their desire to fight and keep the country still honest and livable. I think it is incorrect, even with regard to those who fight crime every day, to accept this plan and, in particular, the annulment of the crime of hiding. We can't discourage their actions. Finally, let us think of the courts that, with the reform of judicial geography, are even closed, even the efficient ones. But perhaps someone should understand that the times of justice are inadmissible in this country and that it is necessary to make them work and not close. The efficient ones must be allowed to remain active and - I repeat - those who do not work, optimizing their work. Do we have to solve these problems and how do we do that? By closing them. This is the work of the current Government: it dissolves a system and, instead of making incisive choices for a recovery, it continues to act completely contrary. As someone said yesterday, you seem to govern how shrimp move. Gentlemen, justice has biblical and shameful times, times that fill prisons with inmates still awaiting judgment. That's the truth. We're going back every day more. Let us say enough of this populist demagogy, of this lack of and evident respect for your citizens, for the honest ones, my lords. Is it possible that the unique vision goes only in the sense of respect for the criminals who illegally enter our country? But what message do we give to our children, to our people? What future do we give them? And we wonder why they leave this country: not only because they lack work, gentlemen, but because it doesn't give them anything anymore, it doesn't give certainty and security. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He won't let us stay there anymore. Our young people leave because there are many causes, and not just because there is no job. Believe me. After this crazy measure the country will certainly have even less security, less possibility in the future, less work and less desire to stay. We keep illegals at the expense of honest immigrants. Let us remember that we also have an honest immigration, which has integrated into our country and - believe me - that it is itself contrary to the current situation that still causes problems to their families. There are immigrants in the country who want to have a future, to grow, to work, to integrate and to respect the rules. These people are also present, of course, and our country has never denied them anything, indeed it has allowed them to build the future that they so longed for and hoped to find in our territory. We defend our people, the people who must now be locked in the house, who must defend themselves and who must defend their efforts - the elderly and the children - from those who have no respect for anything and no one, from those who have a culture quite different from ours. I repeat, this is a government that works backwards. Then we stop talking about the history of our country, a history of emigration and poverty. I come from Veneto and in particular from Belluno, a land of immigrants, gentlemen, who I think every day offend them in relation to these immigrants. Our migrants without a contract did not leave, otherwise the border was not crossed. They were checked and visited - there was still a health check in other countries - and sometimes even humiliated. They did not leave and do not arrive with the arrogance that today, unfortunately, immigrants have in demanding only rights and no duty in this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So let's stop offending our emigrants who, abroad, have brought their value, their ability, the concreteness of wanting to do, to grow and give lustre to our country. However, they brought skills and distinguished themselves in various fields. And they have demonstrated it all over the world, among other things, our Italians who - I repeat - have been able to bring not only skills, but also remittances, capital and economy. Now you, on the contrary, open the doors by deceiving these desperate to the sound of billions of euros, perhaps the last ones, but still billions of euros. We know what these journeys cost, among other things, to a practically non-existent future, to those who embark on this country, whom I would call hypocritical at this point: a country that has no respect for citizens, especially the weakest. But who should protect them but a government? Who has to give that security to the elderly, who after a working life are afraid of being mugged, maybe the only pension that allows them to sustain themselves, to live, when it's okay? Or as it always happens (occasions that have happened recently also in my areas), they are beaten to death, and beaten by whom? In the last episode, my lords, the leaders were in any case non-EU, which these people had welcomed and helped because they also migrants in their youth; people who had given these immigrants confidence, so much to open the doors to them and to be filled with beatings and robbed. This also happens, my lords, because our country is still ‐ as was said before ‐ open and available. But unfortunately, these things also happen. The trust that we give these people living in poverty is not always paid back, indeed, unfortunately - we see it every day - things go wrong. So we live in fear. I truly believe that it is time for this Government to assess how the measure could represent, if approved, a further shame of this country. We think, then, of cultures, of diversity of culture. We women, indeed you women (at this point my group and I call ourselves out, having a very different concreteness) have come here to speak, you have washed your mouth, you have spoken of the Treaty of Istanbul, you have demagogically carried out problems concerning violence against women; but do you have any idea how different we are culturally, the abyss that exists in the way of conceiving the family, the woman, the daughters in our culture compared to those to which we want to open the doors? I think the episodes you see every day can prove it. There are cases in which daughters, born in Italy, if they do not enter our culture, in a culture however free, are killed, my lords, suppressed. Perhaps you should read some books about situations that have occurred over the years to Italian women who have gone to live in these countries; perhaps they would open your eyes to understand the brutality and violence that is being used towards the woman herself. We cannot do goodness and lose, we, our dignity and our strength, to leave room for these violence, which are unheard of. We need a serious economic and social policy, rigid, with laws that see the answer in concrete and serious penalties. Give our people security, give them a home. Perhaps someone has already said this before: there has been a demonstration in Rome for the right to the house. But let's look at the rankings, my lords, let's look at who takes the housing, who has the housing of the municipalities, who receives support. They are not our citizens, who perhaps for a lifetime have worked and are with a minimum pension, certainly not with a golden pension (which, by the way, someone has still supported here). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They can't even pay for their daily lives, and the last week they don't even see the meat on the table. But the houses we give to the non-EU countries, those of course that have not so far produced any kind of income or security of the country. Let us remember: first our people, gentlemen, who have the fundamental right to have an answer for what they have given to their country, working honestly. We are therefore convinced that we cannot accept this bill at all, that we cannot take the future away from our children and our people. This measure today denies this future. It is a measure that will really bring a change, an openness, in which Italy will be seen as the country of the "Let's all go, so nothing happens; let's do what we want, no one will tell us anything; we can also occupy the country, indeed, why not? However, we will not have any kind of penalty, only discounts and only rights. That is what happens, my lords. We believe that the vote on this measure is very serious and it is even more serious to have deleted the crime of illegality. Gentlemen, perhaps this is the most serious thing about this bill that you find you have to vote on and, in any case, have to justify to your citizens too. Today in this country you have legalized the invasion of those who will know that they are being protected, unlike our honest citizens. That is the truth, my lords, and when we talk about the security package that Maroni launched in 2009, well who said that our Minister Castelli absolutely did not act in the correctness of the result, I think that perhaps we should reread the data, verify it and understand its consistency. However, by announcing what will be the final explanation of vote, which will be carried out by my colleague, we in the League are completely opposed to this measure and we want to reiterate that we will not be complicit in this shame. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u42	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on the one hand to express my sincere appreciation for this measure, which, although organized as a bill of delegation, opens up the possibility of legislative decrees which can significantly improve the structure of our sanctioning system, in order to make the sanctions themselves more effective and more corresponding to the factual behaviour that they find in society. However, I must point out, as other colleagues in my own group have already done, the problem of the rule by which, in a dry way, the crime of illegal immigration is abolished. I would point out that we think it is the more necessary, and even more so today, to ensure that migration takes place in terms that are as orderly as possible if policies of complete integration are to be pursued. Above all, we think that in order to promote qualified routes starting from entry into our country, such as training and selection programmes in the countries of origin, which we have started to carry out in collaboration with the government authorities of these countries through our representative organizations of the Italian company, paths that deposit knowledge and competence in the country of origin and that organize privileged channels for people who, before even entering our country, have acquired skills immediately expendable with a job in our labour market, we must necessarily and at the same time oppose the illegal routes. We have to do this for the many meanings they recall and especially for the hatefully illegal activities that organize them, but also for the purpose of objectively making the regular and qualified routes at the start convenient. It is therefore necessary to clarify the rules which this amendment accepted by the Commission would contain, since we are open to identifying the most effective ways by which the expulsion order for illegal entry can be ensured. The objective must be this: what is the way to make the expulsion order more effective and timely? We therefore think that this discipline, even though it is characteristic of principles and criteria for the exercise of delegation, must be as precise as possible, first of all because of what it means to repeal it, which I must consider - I would be surprised to say otherwise - is the transformation of the crime or the return of the crime to be administrative illegal, as it was in the Bossi-Fini law; administrative illegal sanctioned by the expulsion also forced, because, in line with the principles of the Community law, it can be forced whenever it is thought that there is a danger of escape. And this danger of escape is immanent in the behavior, even - if you will - humanly understandable, of the illegal immigrant. So, can we think of getting more quickly, faster, and making more effective an expulsion measure even forced through administrative wrongdoing? Maybe. Let's clear it up, let's spell it out all the way, because that's the goal. But what happens in the face of more serious conducts? We can believe that, by reading the combined provision of this provision, the most serious conducts remain criminal, but I believe that in this same area, if so, this clarification must be made and that it must be said that the repeated entrances still constitute crime, remain a crime, because we cannot but sanction the violation of the sanctions resulting from the first behavior, which - as we have said - can also constitute administrative illegality, but must be immediately sanctioned. If that person further violates the duty of entry through the regular routes and then enters back in a clandestine way in our territory, at that moment he commits a crime, and this must be made explicit; therefore, where he stays in our country, on the basis of this repeated entry or according to the fact that he has escaped the expulsion process, he commits a crime. There cannot fail to be this graduation, as we had and how we must return to having when experience should lead us to consider more effective, for the purpose of expulsion, the transformation of the crime into an administrative offence. In short, we would have preferred, and we would still prefer - I repeat - that the matter be dealt with, through that set of weights and counterweights that evokes, within the framework of the measure announced by the Government in the matter of immigration; but where we insist on maintaining this choice, we cannot fail to make the criteria and principles of delegation fulfilled. We can also reiterate, all the more so because - I repeat - it is a delegated text, things that are already expressed in the combined arrangement - as some would say - of this measure, but clarity, transparency will help those who are delegated to exercise these delegations through the measures that will then come back, for the requested opinion, to Parliament's examination. Gentlemen of the Government, we await these clarifications from you: we await them from you as representatives of complex competences that meet in the function of government and that must combine those demands of order that constitute the premise for the contemporary needs of good and complete integration, as we all want. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow senators, I believe that we are in danger of losing an opportunity these days, because the debate on the draft law that we are debating and which we shall then vote on cannot be the trivialization of the debate between those who defend the security and integrity of citizens and the Homeland and those who, by their laxity, put it at the mercy of the crowds and at the mercy of those who delinquency. I remember what in this legislature, in these first nine months of Parliament's activity, has already been done: Decree-Law No. 78 of 1 July 2013, in the matter of execution of the sentence; the provision on personal protective measures approved at first reading by the House; the provision emptied-incardinated prisons in the House. And today we are voting on this bill, albeit in the form of a delegated law. But such a matter can only be dealt with in accordance with the distinction between Parliament and the Government: Parliament laying down general guidelines and principles, allowing the Government to have the flexibility and freedom of manoeuvre that enable it to adapt the general principles of the system to concrete action. So it is not true what appears in the agencies and newspapers that we are simply discussing how we are being attacked by millions of immigrants who are destroying our society. Of course, our society is suffering, but this suffering is not between patriots and immigrants, but between those who have and those who do not, between poor and rich, between those who are less rich and those who are very poor. We must therefore adapt our constitutional and legislative system to this type of approach, without falling into the pro-immigrant good rhetoric which seeks not to consider the needs of security and protection of citizens. I want to try, modestly, to resume the ranks of the reasons why we wanted to lead to the approval of the Senate, and then of the whole Parliament, this legislation. First of all, the alignment with Europe; the need to respond to a pressing call from the Head of State with the formal message of 8 October; therefore, the continuity with the bill Monti-Severino, approved by the House in the last legislature, not converted by the Senate but already incardinated in the debate before the early dissolution; then the emergency prison, and, again, the need to redefine in this country the criminal cases that still have a strong relevance from the point of view of anti-sociality, the social drama they generate, the tension. Special facts that, in the change of custom and our civil, valuable references, still attribute a strong characterization of social danger to what does not have it. This is what inspired this measure. Today, we have a measure that strengthens the balance between the re-educational and re-socialising function that the Constitution entrusts to the criminal system, and the protection of the security needs of citizens and the right to a civil community life worthy of this name. This delegation law responds to this philosophy. I would like to emphasise with great force the importance of the new function entrusted to the home detention and the insertion of public works as a way to re-educate; the suspension of the criminal process with the testing and revision of the procedural rules that replace the current rules on absentia in favour of the irretrievable, which introduces a constitutionally guaranteed principle that is the right of defence. It is a set of rules, contained in this delegation law, which go far beyond the dramatized issue of criminal offence or of the crime of immigration or of trivial issues related to the case of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990 in the matter of drug addiction. But because this cannot be escaped, because this is the communicative mantra of the ongoing debate, which is not presented to the public for what it is, that is an important tool to address the issue of justice as well as the common sensitivity, the brain, as well as the belly of the people places it, then I cannot escape it either. I think we need to reason with people and make it clear that it is not a matter of crime or criminal offense: when you can't respond effectively to the threat to any person who lives on your territory you have failed. The history of these years shows that, although it is a rule contained in a law that I would never have voted if I had been in this Parliament and which was already talking about administrative illegality, returning to view illegal immigration as an administrative illegal responds effectively to the need for citizens' security. We must not fall into an ideological and propaganda debate to talk to the people's belly; we must find effective measures to stop a negative phenomenon such as illegal immigration. After that, we should have the courage, as a civilized country, to also address the issue of the citizenship of immigrants, the discipline to be followed for the children of immigrants and how to obtain citizenship in a decent country, which cannot only use these people as labour when it suits them and abandon them to their destiny when it is not convenient. I therefore believe that it is an act of civilization to recover the concept of administrative unlawfulness compared to that of crime for certain facts. Of course, we must not be naive in the face of repeated relapses (to use a term proper to criminal law that does not concern the figure of administrative wrongdoing). If we see that people who have been repeatedly expelled are returning, it is clear that at that point we will have to apply a stronger rule and provide for the intervention of criminal legislation; but we can only do so in the presence of a state that feels strong and authoritative and that knows how to give its citizens more security. The same applies to certain matters concerning the decree of the President of the Republic No 309 of 1990. I do not think this is an opportunity to resolve the debate on light drugs, but we cannot maintain a criminal sanction for certain behaviors, such as the self-production of cannabis for personal use or the non-compliance with some bureaucratic burden of denunciation in the case of authorised production. Such behaviour must have a proper administrative relevance and as such must be sanctioned and prosecuted. In short, Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware and proud of the importance of the work we have done and that we will have to continue when the measures incarnate to the House arrive, which will allow us to give more organicity to our work and I thank the colleagues and the structure of the Commission for the justice that have given this work to this House. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Di Maggio and Verducci]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u46	Madam President, of course this is a measure that we have taken seriously and serenely in the Commission. I am always critical of Mr Casson, who sits here on my right, but I must admit that in his report he has been precise and precise and has acted objectively, representing the entire Commission. I quote his words: "a procedural system that works badly", "a shameful prison situation". This is the heart of all the work we have done. Senator Susta, who preceded me, quoted on 8 October and the President of the Republic who sent a message to the Chambers. It was President Napolitano's first time, and I don't think he did it to waste time or to do something not knowing what to do. He sent us a precise and precise message, to which both the Government - I invite the Undersecretary Ferri to act - and the political forces represented in the two branches of Parliament should give answers. This measure, which we as a group will of course be voting on, can be a valuable instrument, as the rapporteur, Mr Casson, said, to approach indirectly the problem of overcrowding and the situation of pending processes. However, Mr Casson did not mention, but I do, that 50% of those subject to protective measures in prison are then declared innocent. That's two, ten, 20 people? No, 13,000 people go to prison and then are found innocent by the judiciary itself. The penitentiaries are at the limit of implosion due to overcrowding. I also believe that Article 27 of the Constitution cannot escape anyone. Destining the accused, with his consent, to work of public utility, ergo to the test, is the fulcrum of the measure and responds to the constitutional prediction of Article 27, which prescribes the requirement that the penalties tend to re-education the condemned. If it is therefore true, as it is true, that detention must carry out, as well as a punitive function even a socially rehabilitative mission, I believe there is no better instrument than that of work to achieve this purpose. That is why I believe that we have done an excellent job, including the delegation to the Government to ensure that it responds, for its part, to the needs and needs of the situation we are experiencing. In this connection, I would also ask the rapporteur to consider an amendment of mine, which I believe can be shared by everyone, according to which for the crimes for which the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot provide for protective custody in prison there is the possibility of being put to the test. The President of the Republic, with the message that he sent us, congratulated us for having decided that custody of crimes under the age of five would not be applicable. We now have to standardise the situation with regard to testing in order to achieve this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, finish, please. Barani (GAL). I'm done, Madam President. A good job has been done which I believe should see almost the unanimity of this House. We cannot, of course, throw the baby away with dirty water: if there are problems with immigrants and cannabis we will solve them elsewhere, not here, although I believe that we have dealt with them in a mutually acceptable way here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u47	Madam President, first of all I would like to express my appreciation and thanks, not only for my own personal work, but also on behalf of the Group I represent, for the valuable work done by and with my colleagues in a broad debate which is still developing here and which has led to this admirable result. The measure has its own complexity: it is not only the introduction of non-convict prison sentences or the measure, which is very interesting from the point of view of the repentance of the accused, the suspension of the proceedings with the testing and reconnaissance and the reorganization of the trial to the absentees in order to guarantee the rights of the defence. It is a genuine reform of the sanctioning system. The aims are not only to mitigate the overcrowding of prisons or the very heavy clogging of the courts, but also to affirm our legal civilization. When out of 65,000 people in custody over 25,000 are in custody and there is even a combination of the physical closeness between the sentenced person with a sentence passed in court for serious crimes and those who may not have had the first conversation with the prosecutor who incarcerated him, we are certainly not in the condition of fulfillment of our constitutional principle that one is innocent until the final judgment. This is also a historic measure, because it is the first act of compliance with the condemnation of the European Court's judgment against our violation of Article 3 of the Declaration of Human Rights, which was to be applied within one year of its entry into force and this first and historic result is achieved by this intervention. There will be a non-convict penalty, with a non-arbitrary assessment, the parameters are well defined and well qualified and, note well, not by the judge of surveillance in the execution, as it could have happened before, but by the judge of cognition. I would like to make a brief comment on a number of points in particular. Probation, that is, testing, which derives from Anglo-Saxon law and which in Italy had been applied only in the context of the juvenile process, is now also foreseen for cases involving adults; it is an act of legal civilization in which we bow. As far as the irretrievable are concerned, our country has been condemned several times for failing to adequately guarantee the defence, as often absenteeism involved the lack of knowledge of the initiation of a criminal proceeding of the subject to trial. I would like to quote briefly, but with great commendation, the lucidity of the intervention of the Undersecretary Cosimo Ferri to the Chamber, which, in one of its salient features, speaks of the balance between Article 27 of the Constitution, which provides for the reeducational and repairing nature of the sentence, with the certainty of the same sentence and with security. The argument is based on the statistical data: 95 percent of the people who have been detained in prison return relapses, while this statistical element is greatly reduced when, through proceedings other than detention in prison, the active repentance of the condemned gets that remedial and re-educational effect that is in our purposes and our obligations. I shall therefore end with an appreciation of the work carried out, including in the dialectic of the debate and with the will, when the time comes for the vote, to express our firm support for this delegation to the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u48	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u49	Madam President, I am speaking in this usual empty Chamber (the debate is a very long one, so listening to all these speeches is sometimes difficult, and I wonder if it is useful, because perhaps it often happens that we do not know well what we are talking about and we are good at speaking without saying anything). I only intervene on this famous article 10- bis of the Bossi-Fini to ask colleagues from Forza Italia if for once they want to do one thing of what they have been saying for twenty years that they will do and that they never do. They say they are liberals: they have claimed to be liberals for twenty years, but in this period we have understood that they are unworthy of the right-hand side of the Chamber, because they have never been liberals, anything else! In the so-called 1994 Galli Act (related to the integrated water cycle) three words were used: efficiency, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. I repeat, it was 1994, 20 years ago. We ask our colleagues in the Forza Italia Group to be efficient, effective and economic, understanding that the repeal of Article 10- bis of Legislative Decree No 286 of 25 July 1998 (the Single Text) responds to this requirement. Therefore, we ask them to stop talking for once and to show whether they are really able to be liberal and whether they are properly occupying the right side of this House. For once do it, if you are what you claim to be for 20 years! I read some statements, like that of Senator Repetti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, I invite you to remain on the subject and address the whole House. Thank you. CIOFFI (M5S). Okay, but that's the credit. They claim that the arrangement of the measure has been done with the help of all, but that the inclusion of this change has had a negative effect. It is not a negative effect: I give them a challenge glove to vote for this rule, otherwise they are not consistent with themselves. People outside must understand that there is no consistency between what they say and what these gentlemen do, because otherwise words no longer make sense. If they want to give meaning to the words they say and to what they claim to be, then they must be consistent with themselves and explain to the citizens that the repeal of Article 10-a is nothing more than a way of making an inefficient system efficient. We are always talking about reform of justice aimed at making it effective and efficient, but when we try to be simply logical to achieve this thing they don't want to do it: then, what are we talking about? I only intervened to make that observation. I repeat to them, therefore, the invitation to be consistent and consequent with what they claim to be and to tell the truth, namely that the repeal of Article 10-a responds to a logic of efficiency, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the justice system. If you're a consequence, stop talking in vain and vote for this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u50	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is one of those which the message to the Houses of the Head of State quoted as part of the tripod with which to deal with the dramatic prison situation in Italy. I quote the words of President Napolitano, in which we recognize a solemn and important invitation: • 1) the introduction of mechanisms of probation. In this regard, the bill delegates approved by the Chamber and now before the Senate, provides, for certain crimes and in case of absence of social danger, - and I stress - absence of social danger - the possibility for the judge to apply directly the "test" as the main penalty. In this way the sentenced person will avoid entry into prison, immediately being assigned to a reintegration path; 2) the prediction of limited penalties of personal freedom, but "not prisons." Also on this profile affects the bill now cited, which intends to introduce the penalty - which can be imposed directly by the judge with the sentence of conviction - of the "conclusion at home"; 3) the reduction of the application area of the detention in prison. (one of the phenomena that we repeatedly recall). In this regard, the DAP figures show that, in total, there are about 19% of those "waiting for the first trial"; those condemned at first and second levels are also about 19%; the remaining 62% are "definative" i.e. achieved by an irrevocable conviction. In the shared perspective of reducing the scope of the prison custody application, Law No. 94 of 2013, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013, which amended Article 280 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has already intervened, raising from four to five years of imprisonment the limit of penalty that can justify the application of custody in prison. This was the invitation contained in the message from the President of the Republic, and it is noted, among other things, Madam President and colleagues, that we would have done well, as should be expected also in practice, to put on the agenda of this House the debate on the same message on this subject. The text we are examining, therefore, existed before the message. It certainly does not exhaust the measures set out by the President, yet for more than six months it has been waiting to be put on the agenda of this House. Every parliamentary group and every senator, ladies and gentlemen, must take charge of this awareness. We cannot constantly discuss the inefficiency of our parliamentary system and then not deal quickly and in response to authoritative institutional demands on the issues that are being posed to us. On the other hand, the Commission's decision was to add delegation provisions to the Government on the general reform of the system of penalties, altering the original plant in the matter of non-convict prison sentences and suspension of the procedure by putting to the test and against the irretrievable. On the one hand, the delegation to the Government for the general reform of the sanctioning discipline has become practically a new penal code to be created, with the transformation into administrative illicits of all the crimes for which only the penalty of fine or fine is provided, with a list of typical exceptions. Here, too, there would have been a lot to say and perhaps also a lot to be clarified in relation to much more detailed delegation criteria in the past. But it is the rewriting of the entire picture of the main penalties, to the list referred to in Article 1 (a), paragraph 1, that gives the most to think: it adds home imprisonment and house arrest, but goes back to mentioning life imprisonment. For the first time, in Republican times, we are so called upon to pronounce on the end of punishment never. The alibi of the survival of the Rocco code (which seems latent to me), attacked only by the referendums supported by the radicals, now falls and forces us to take a position on a measure that fundamentally denies an indisputable constitutional principle, namely the re-educational function of the sentence. To re-educate in order never to return to society seems to me to be an unachievable objective. Yet, this is neither the time nor the place of religious wars: we are aware of the limitations of this provision but, at the same time, we believe that we must quickly reach an effective conclusion, that it is able to address the problem of overcrowding prisons (but not only) in an appropriate manner. Failure to achieve this objective would certainly cause the prisoners, who are over 70,000, to suffer a great deal, but would cause our society to bear very high consequences, which, by failing to implement through its institutions the aims set out in the Constitution, would maintain a course of action that would turn against itself. Not only that, it would lead to the application of additional measures, including sanctions, by the Court of Strasbourg, which, as you know, has been expressed in the judgment called Torreggiani. That is why the Socialists have not proposed amendments of particular importance, in particular on these general issues, convinced that this measure will have to return quickly to the House, in order to be able to fire definitively, become operational and also quickly engage the Government in the implementation of the delegation. It will allow the use of execution at home for arrest and imprisonment for crimes with no longer than three years of imprisonment, and will give the judge the right to apply the home imprisonment for crimes for which a prison sentence is provided for between three and five years. It also regulates the case of the replacement of penalties in execution at home by detention in prison if a place is not available to ensure the custody of the sentenced person, or when the violation of the prescribed prescriptions or the commission of further criminal acts result in incompatibility with the continuation of criminal execution at home. Also useful is the new regulation of public utility work, which can be applied by the judge, after hearing the accused and the prosecutor, in punctually regulated and the characteristics of which are in summary the following: it consists in the provision of unpaid activities in favour of the community and is carried out in such a way as not to affect the working needs, even within the limit of the daily duration of the work, which can not in any case exceed eight hours. The only amendments that we have proposed are to be found along this path, regulating the way in which prisoners' work is carried out and paid, including in extra-convict situations. These are activities that deserve legislative attention, because it is also necessary to take responsibility for the economic convenience of entrepreneurs who engage in this complex niche of the labour market within the prison. It is clear that in order to implement these initiatives effectively, conditions of convenience must be achieved, which must also be clearly identified by entrepreneurs who invest in this direction. There is certainly an economic importance, but also a relevance - and this is the most important aspect I would like to highlight - in relation to the educational goal, because the work intended not in terms of exploitation, but of the qualification of one's own existence is an important element of reeducation. Above all, for us, this is an opportunity to carry out, as I am doing now, the in-depth debate that we should have had on the message from the Head of State addressed to us last October. The President of the Republic has put to the attention of the House and the Senate the imperative need to put an end, without delay, to a state of affairs that makes us all responsible for the violations disputed to Italy by the Court of Strasbourg. They form, we cannot ignore, an unacceptable departure from the principles and the order on which the European integration on which our country has linked its destinies is based. But it must be added that the pressing need to profoundly change the condition of prisons in Italy is not only a legal and political imperative, but at the same time a moral imperative. The institutions and our public opinion cannot and must not slip into insensitivity and indifference, living together - without commitment and being able to change it - with a reality of civil degradation and human suffering such as the one that tens of thousands of men and women in prisons suffer. The most tragic testimony of this situation is the continuous stylicide of attempted suicides and suicides occurring within prisons and involving not only prisoners, but also prison police officers. Colleagues, even sacrificing their immediate conveniences, the Socialist Group accepts this text because it is convinced of the existence of the constitutional duty invoked by President Napolitano. We hope that there will be a similar awareness on the part of all. I add three concluding remarks. I would like to draw our attention to a behaviour that unfortunately remains in our legislative action: every measure that we introduce into our legal system inevitably provides, when it wants to sanction violations of our rules and our laws, the presence of detention and prison, this knowing that we have a system that is not able to implement this our permanent invocation of the prison sanction and well knowing that our prison system does not introduce those positive dynamic elements that the atonement of the penalty should favor through the reeducational path, provided in our legal system as the purpose of sanction and detention in prison. Therefore, from this point of view we must completely reverse our legal philosophy, giving our regulations an incentive and not deterrent action. We must promote positive behavior and not sanction only negative behavior. At the same time, we cannot overlook - and these are my last two considerations - that there are complicated, serious and worrying areas of our society, and also criminal action, which must encourage us to address issues with greater openness: I am referring to the issue of drug consumption and trade, the problem of drug addiction and the interconnections with organised crime, and, last point, to the issue of illegal immigration, which I would like to bring to your attention. These are the two horns of a great problem that, even because of an attitude of political prejudice and false morals, bring great rents of position to criminal organizations, which produce criminal revenues of great economic importance and which engage our repressive institutions in a strong way (also committing large economic resources), to which, however, the action of contrast does not manifest itself with the incisiveness that it should have. I therefore call on my fellow Members, who have also addressed the problem of illegal immigration and the trade in drugs in a somewhat traditional way, in the course of today's debate, to give more thought. It is not a question of being vouchers or permissive, but it is a question of being realistic, in order to put in place legislation that allows us to tackle these issues effectively. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u52	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u53	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, so full of reflections, those of this morning, like those of yesterday, have been important and meaningful interventions, which have examined the contents of the measure, also from a general point of view. All in all, for the quality of the work produced both in the Commission and in this House, they call for a positive reflection, on a point of meeting and compromise reached on the text. All the speeches have been interesting and have been expressed legitimate opinions and views, also different, based on principles and theories that have been confronting each other for a long time. However, there are obvious and relevant critical issues, which I would like to point out. What interests me most is the sustainability of the measure under consideration, for its many aspects, from the legal to the social one, but also from the economic point of view, which for its impacts is no less important. I am referring, as is foreseeable, above all to the point concerning the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration, as determined by the debate and the vote in the Commission, which animates today. Madam President, is it sustainable for our country to define legislation that does not include a crime that, as Senator Malan said yesterday, is foreseen in all countries of the world? Would it therefore be sustainable for Italy to give the message that from us it is possible - just to enter the country - to be free from any norm, that preludes to that principle of citizenship? Does such a choice really reflect the will of our citizenship? In the last year CENSIS reminds us - just to have the size and order of magnitude of a phenomenon so important and important for the whole world, and not only for us - that there are 232 million people who, in the world, have moved to look for better opportunities for life and work; of these a little less than 60 percent has settled in developed countries, those developed countries where 17% of the world's population lives. As far as we are concerned, the majority of foreigners, some 72 million, or 10% of our continent's total population, have flowed into Europe. Within the European Union, Germany with 10 million, France with 7.5 million and Spain with about 6.5 million are the countries with the largest immigrant population. According to CENSIS data, Italy, fourth in Europe with more than 5.7 million foreign presences, is at the eleventh place in the world, although it plays a leading role mainly due to small and large tragedies, as well as great as the recent ones of Lampedusa. The most attentive observers, however, will not have escaped the many effects and signs of widespread tension that cross the social fabric and that are sometimes skillfully fed - I do not know if always in good faith - by a sort of racism that mounts in communication and that is misleading, because it preludes to a dangerous soup of culture. The risk is that of a stiffening of relations between different ethnic groups and of increasing attitudes of intolerance of Italian citizens towards foreigners, increasingly seen with distrust or as possible competitors. That is what we are entering into the economic dimension of the problem. In recent surveys of the population, there is a lack of positive feelings towards immigrants: just 17.2% of Italians say they understand and have a friendly approach to them; four out of five Italians instead divide between distrust, 60%, and indifference, 16%, and open hostility, 7%, while two out of three Italians, 65.2 percent, think that immigrants in Italy are too many. Madam President, if these figures are true then - and I am sure they are true - this is the common feeling that we must be able to interpret and worthyly represent in this House. You mean humor him? No. It means that we rather need to understand better and tell ourselves some truths about the phenomenon. There are several studies - one also recent, which is Minister Kyenge's latest report on immigration - that try to highlight the idea that the presence of workers from other countries is good for the coffers of the State, since the social security contributions and taxes paid exceed the public expenditure to manage the incoming flow. But is that so? And is this connection so tight? I would just like to mention a few facts that distinguish the phenomenon of immigration from an economic and financial point of view, because it helps us to have a more precise, broad and correct vision. The programme to combat irregular immigration in Italy, in the period from 2005 to 2012, cost us a total of 1,668 million euros: about 1,300 million national funds and only about 280 million euros, of Community source. Only for the control of the external borders have we spent a total of EUR 331.8 million; for the purchase of new technologies, systems of identification and communication in support of the activities carried out by the Forces for the order, for the control of the borders, the sighting of the immigrants and their identification, we have spent, drawing from the resources of the security NON for the development of the Mezzogiorno 111 million. For the setting up, operation, management and maintenance of the identification and expulsion centers (CIE) we have spent more than one billion euros, to which they must add approximately 400 million for the surveillance and the execution of the returns of the migrants in them. The daily cost per migrant citizen retained varies from 21 euros of Isola Capo Rizzuto, to 41 euros in Rome, to 60 euros in Milan for the CIE managed by the Red Cross. To these numbers, however, must be added other quantities referable to the social aspects, which certainly increase the total cost. It is those aspects that are probably at the root of the perception and feeling of fear about the security of Italian citizens that I mentioned earlier. Suffice it to say that 95% of foreign inmates are illegal or illegally resident in our country, eventually becoming an easy prey to organized crime or, in any case, to criminalize in some way. To ask these questions, Madam President, does it mean to be racist? I don't think so. To me it seems to express a position of responsibility towards, first of all, the Italian citizens, to whom we owe serious and correct answers; but the same serious and correct answers we owe to all the foreign presences that have regularly settled in our country, to work and to bring their economic, social and cultural contribution to the overall growth of all of us. It is out of respect for those regular foreign citizens in our country that we must be able to guarantee that the certainty of the right to entry and citizenship has clear and certain rules, which do not change on the basis of the emotion of a vote or a growing position, but which are the result of a serious, responsible and conscious reflection. We owe it first of all to the Italians, Madam President, and even more to those foreign workers who in Italy play their role as citizens of the world and of this country with seriousness and fairness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u54	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u55	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly, because I will then have the opportunity, in the explanation of vote, to explain the reasons why we feel, as a Mixed Group and as a member of the Left Ecology and Freedom, that we are in agreement with the issues that are being discussed with the parliamentary majority and the Government, not since today, on the idea of putting a hand on the issue of justice in our country and prisons. There is also, of course, our intention to do everything possible to resolve a situation that we consider at the limits of tolerability. I also think I can say that the debate that has taken place in this House these days, apart from some excesses, from our absolutely unacceptable point of view, up to the real racist statements that we have had to hear, has, however, been, overall, interesting and important in our view. Given the sharing of many aspects of the measure, which I will have the opportunity to better motivate in the explanation of vote, I would now like to address, in a few minutes, a single aspect of the bill, a precise point, that relating to depenalizations, in particular with reference to the crimes that have been foreseen, both those that we transform into administrative illegal, and those that we repeal. In this case, too, we share a great deal, generally speaking, not only because of the political and symbolic scope, in our opinion very significant, of the repeal of the crime of clandestineness (and not only because this repeal has rightly been included in a more comprehensive procedure), but also because we think that - and this is the important point - we need, during the weeks and months that will come, some elements of greater deepening, that can give the subject a better organicity and a structural hypothesis, which we do not yet see in the field. It is well known that the reform proposal attempts to resolve some of the open issues that, as we know, concern the national judicial system, also in the light of the repeated calls from Europe. However, we think - and this is the important point - that all too often these are sector interventions, which are once again intended to affect - we fear - not definitive on the whole of the substantive and procedural criminal law rules. In fact, in addition to a draft law on procedural matters concerning the suspension of the procedure with testing precisely against the irretrievable, it introduces the attribution of a delegated power to the Government for the reform of the system of penalties, as we are saying these days. We would like to remind Parliament that over the past few years there have been many committees set up to reform the penal code, whose text, as we recognise, is dated, anachronistic and suffers from often sectoral and extemporaneous changes that have been made over the years. Put aside the idea of a wider review, the last ministerial commissions have concentrated on more limited profiles, considered of greater urgency, such as decriminalization and reform of the sanctioning system; however, the legislative proposals have tried to intervene organically. The Fiorella Committee on the Review of the Criminal System, for example, felt that it had to deal with and work not only in identifying the criteria necessary for the transformation of numerous offences into administrative offences, but also on concrete profiles, such as the processability and the extinct events of the crime, which must be pursued jointly in order to ensure that the criminal system is subsidiarity. Not by chance, in parallel with the decriminalization process, it has been assessed to outline a plan to reorganize the discipline of the prescription of crimes. We therefore believe that the delegation to the Government, as reworded in the Commission, if from the perspective of the objectives pursued it can only be assessed positively (as I will say also in the explanation of vote) especially for the reduction of prison sentences, from the point of view of the guiding criteria it still appears too little thoughtful and deserving of further deepenings, also in the light of recent studies done during these years that we would not like to remain dead letter, nor that they were exceeded by legislation that intervenes on some aspects, but that it lacks that structurality in our view necessary. So, especially with regard to the list of crimes that are being repealed, while expressing - I insist - great satisfaction for the repeal of a hateful crime such as the one of clandestineness, we would like to deepen, capable of giving more organicity. We think that this work can be done over the next few months and that this debate should not simply be interpreted as a point of arrival, but can actually be a starting point. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u56	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-166.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
