ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Without comment, the Minutes shall be deemed to have been approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00018 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00133 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00274, presented by Senator Martelli and other senators, 1-00276, presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators, 1-00277, presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00279, presented by Senator Puppato and other senators, and 1-00280, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, on regasification plants and on the power plant in Civitavecchia. I call Senator Baptist to explain motion 18 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u9	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion that I will present, at the first signature of President De Petris, deals with the problem of regasification plants and the consequences that these infrastructures would have on the surrounding environment. First of all, it must be stressed that the problem of regasifiers is not only a local problem, as it is part of the choices that concern the national energy strategy in the first place. With regard to the supply requirements for methane gas, there is, in fact, no plan that provides for the necessary number of regasifiers and proper planning on the location of these gases. At present, it must be pointed out that the demand for products on our market has decreased considerably, to the extent that it does not justify the construction of such plants. Plants, which, as is well known, constitute risky activities. 16:39 p.m. (Baptiste followed). As we know, gas is mainly destined to the market of north-western Europe, so it seems almost impossible to recognize strategic elements for the supply of our country. Italy, moreover, currently seems to be sheltered from possible reductions of the supply of gas from the suppliers: against an annual consumption of approximately 78 billion cubic meters, in fact, in the national network there are approximately 117 billion cubic meters (many of which already destined to the North Europe). From the European point of view of differentiation of energy supply, Italy therefore already makes its contribution in the gas sector. Our text emphasizes above all the serious environmental impact of the regasifiers, in particular with reference to the on-shore plants, such as those that would like to do in Trieste and Gioia Tauro, consequent to the use of chlorine in the process of regasification open circuit. It has been discussed for years about the realization of a plant with such characteristics in the locality of Zaule in the port of Trieste. The environmental impact of an infrastructure with such a location would certainly be devastating. Devastant, first of all for the passage of the ships gasiere. The bay of Zaule is shallow and has a limpid seabed, rich in potentially very dangerous substances. There are considerable amounts of chromium, zinc and mercury. The construction of the regasifier would require to increase the depth of the bay, in order to favor the transit of the ships. The dredging work, therefore, would end up putting these substances in circulation today deposited on the seabed. The discharge of large volumes of sea water, cold and chlorinated, in a small basin and almost devoid of replacement like the bay of Muggia, would result in the annihilation of any form of life conveyed by the water, in addition to the oxidation of the organic substance, the particleate and the nutrients dissolved in them. This treatment would look like 600,000 cubic meters of sea water per day, such as the volume of a twenty-storey building with the large base as the square of the Unity of Italy, the main square of Trieste. The entire amount of the water of the bay of Muggia, which contains a volume of water not exceeding 100 million cubic meters, would in practice be flowed through the plant for more than twice a year. Equally harmful is the gas transported in liquid form at a temperature of less than 174 degrees centigrade. To use it, it is necessary to bring it back to the aeriform state. The transformation requires a substantial heating of the liquid, obtained by taking the heat directly from the contact with the sea. This procedure would reimpose rivers of frozen water in the bay, leading to a drop in temperature at the bottom of the bay of about five degrees across the gulf. The consequences on the ecosystem would be disastrous, all the more so if we consider that these waters are chosen by many species of the northern Adriatic to lay eggs. To appease these controversy, the hypothesis of raising the temperature of the liquid gas with the water already heated by the incinerator was ventilated. Too bad that, for such a solution to be sustainable, the incinerator should burn something like 1,200 tons of waste a day. I would remind you that Italy, like the other countries of the European Union, is obliged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and the construction of the regasifier would go in the opposite direction. Methane pollutes about 20 percent less than oil; that is true. But if we add the energy activity needed to liquefy it and then to regassify it, the pollution rate of natural gas exceeds that of oil by 10%. This only feeds the country's dependence on fossil fuels. Gas will no longer be a current resource in ten years' time. Sweden - and it does not seem to me that its climatic conditions are better than ours - is trying to eliminate fossil fuels by 2025; it is absurd that Italy could think of investing in the same old sources. A further, and no less, significant consequence would be represented by the paralysis of traffic in strategic ports such as those of Gioia Tauro, the main hub of the Mediterranean, and Trieste. The ships gasiere, in fact, would extremely slow down the harbour traffic, with evident negative relapses for the economy of the port, to face also of the activity of the adjacent terminal SIOT, that it is the point of departure of the transalpine pipeline that reaches Karlsruhe after 753 kilometers. The traffic of the tankers and the unloading of the crude oil should be assured without interruptions, considering that currently this activity covers approximately 75 percent of the traffics of the port of Trieste. The latest developments in Zaule's case, probably also in the light of the above data, fortunately go towards the withdrawal of the concession for the Triestino regasifier. The route was granted in 2009. I have also called for a response from the Government in this House, so that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Tourism come here to report, since the change of government has also led to a change of the respective Ministers. In recent months, following also the heated opposition expressed by the local authorities of Friuli-Venezia Giulia based on elements of undoubted scientific value, the site of Zaule had been removed from the European Union list of energy priority projects for Italy. So, and I will conclude, we can be in favour of a European strategy that aims to provide energy at a lower cost to the production system and to the citizens, but this is not the main way to achieve this goal which, in fact, hides too high a cost in terms of environmental damage and to the community. For years, for example, alternative technical solutions have been available to the problem of the regasification of liquefied natural gas which could be considered. What this government should do and what previous governments should have done is to invest more in energy saving. Let me give you an example: the passive house system. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u10	The Conference of Leaders, which met today, approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 3 July. Without prejudice to the other topics planned for this week, the discussion of the draft law on craft enterprises, which is still being examined in the Industry Commission, is postponed to the week from 1 to 3 July. At tomorrow afternoon's Question Time, the Minister for Economic Development will answer questions about energy policy and industrial policies and trade regulation. For the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers, scheduled for Tuesday 24 June, the time between the groups was again divided, not strictly proportional, for a total of three hours and thirty minutes. Since the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 25 June, the decree-law on measures in favour of the people of Emilia-Romagna, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and - when concluded by the Foreign Affairs Committee - the draft law on international cooperation for development, will also be examined. The examination of the draft law on anti-corruption, already foreseen in the next week's calendar, is postponed pending the definition of the texts. In the week from 1 to 3 July, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics and the draft law on craft enterprises, will be examined the Vaccari motion on celiac disease and documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities. Finally, the Conference of Heads of Group decided that, when concluded by the Commission, examination of the draft constitutional reform legislation will begin at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 3 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u11	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2014: - Drawing of Law n. 1326 and related - General Discipline on international cooperation for development. - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429 and related - Provisions for the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of the second part of the Constitution (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u12	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 3 July 2014: [[Wednesday 18 June pom. h. 16,30-18,45 - Motions discussion on regasification plants and on the power plant of Civitavecchia - Following the discussion of motions on the satellite communication system MUOS Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, June 19 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Economic Development on: - energy policy initiatives; - industrial policies and trade regulation]] Parliament shall be convened at 7 p.m. on Wednesday 18 June for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The senators will vote first. [[Tuesday, June 24 pom. h. 16.30 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 26 and 27 June and on the policy lines of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on Wednesday 25 June h. 9,30-13,30 - Drawing of law n. 1518 - Decree-Law n. 74, urgent measures in favour of the people of Emilia-Romagna (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade 11 July) - Drawing of law n. 1326 and related - International cooperation for development (Ove concluded by the Commission) " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 26 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1518 (Decree-Law No 74, emergency measures for the Emilia-Romagna population) should be tabled no later than 1 p.m. on Tuesday 24 June. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1326 and related (International Cooperation for Development) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 1 July pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 264 and related - Craft enterprises (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Discussion of motion n. 61, Vaccari, on celiac disease - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429 and related - Constitutional reform (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded in the Commission) (from Thursday 3, ant.) Wednesday 2 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 3 " ant. h. 9.30-11.45 Thursday 3 July pom h. 16 - Immediate questions pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 264 and related (artisan enterprises) and to constitutional bill No 1429 and related (constitutional reform) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Parliament shall be convened at 12 noon on Thursday 3 July for the vote on the election of eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The senators will vote first. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Brussels European Council of 26 and 27 June 2014 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) (*) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 33' FI-PdL XVII 26' M5S 22' NCD 15' Mixed 18' LN-Aut 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 10' GAL 15' PI 10' SCp 14' Dissentents 5']] (*) The allocation of time is not strictly proportional and takes account of specific requests made by the parliamentary groups. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1518 (Decree-Law No 74, urgent measures in favour of the people of Emilia-Romagna) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u15	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, at the Conference of Leaders, I was, in the interests of the Group which I represent, first of all, the dismay, I would almost say, of having seen the disappearance from the calendar, where it was scheduled for 25 June, of the vote in the Chamber on the draft anti-corruption bill (draft law No 19 and related), but, more importantly, also the total absence of this item on the agenda for the following week, the first of July. From the government we have had the usual, yet another reassurance, absolutely empty in time and content, of the so-called announced legislative intervention, which should be a bill on the subject. Even today, at the Conference of the Leaders, at your express request, Mr President, we have not received from the representative of the Government any kind of reassurance, except a vague "Of course we are working on it." Our experience on this particular point is teaching us that government intervention has not made any real contribution. I am referring, in relation to that package of draft laws, to the Government's amendment on self-cycling, which, as you probably already know, has been a simple copy and paste of an amendment already present in the Justice Commission, signed by the Democratic Party. Thus, government intervention and the necessary and subsequent sub-emerging phase have already resulted in a delay of two weeks compared to the planned time. Now there is the announcement of this new intervention on the subject of false social communications and, probably, also on the point of prescription, an announcement that - let us remember - has not been made according to the dictates of paragraph 2 of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, this has blocked parliamentary activity in the Justice Commission, and consequently in this House, for a period of one month. We do not yet see the horizon finally rising when this branch of Parliament will be able to give the answer that so many Italian citizens are waiting for, because the waste of the worst part of this country, and I refer to the known corruptive cases that are haunting Italy at every level, not only political, but in every area, need that answer that we are hoping for is immediate and incisive. That is why we have not been able to agree to this proposal for a timetable, for which we call, symbolically, and we propose a change that concerns the first week of July, thus granting a further week to the Government in order to be able to dismiss its legislative measure, should it be done quickly. In the end, gentlemen, this is an article and in all the amendments that are in the Commission we believe that there is any kind of rewording. We will be very curious to see (and if this happens we will not let it pass without political sanction) whether the Government will eventually, after all this work and this expectation, fire a text that was already present among the amendments in the Commission. If this happens for the second time, then the reference to the Government and the President of the Chaplain Council that we have already made in this House will be multiplied by a thousand in every place where we will succeed with our voice in reaching out to the citizens, who are waiting for a response that has not yet been made. The proposed modification of the timetable is in reference to the week which runs from 1 July onwards, possibly also to modification of the addition made at the request of the PD Zanda leader, made up of the Conference of Leaders, to include the discussion of constitutional reforms. Here, too, we see a few hats fluttering, we seem to see that there is someone who wants to show that something is finally being done, while it is good to know that nothing is being done in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] It would therefore be appropriate, in this sense, to propose an amendment to the timetable for the week from 1 to 3 July, instead of constitutional reforms, even if the Commission has finished examining the 5,000 amendments (which we already know will not be able to take place), and instead of the debate on motion 61 on celiac disease, which will undoubtedly have its dignity and importance, to be compared, however, to the message that we have to give and to which I have referred before (so I do not repeat myself), it would be appropriate, necessary and, above all, possible to include the vote on anti-corruption measures in the Chamber, with an amendment phase that we will still have in time for the Commission to carry out if the Government decides to intervene, given that it has already blocked us so far. I hope that at last in that week we can follow up the vote in this House and dismiss the measure at least from this branch of Parliament having done our duty well, as the Italians are waiting for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not adopted the timetable proposal for various reasons. First of all, we too are a little dismayed, having followed the previous Conference of Parents and, in total good faith, having accepted the Government's thesis, taken up by the Majority Group Leaders, according to which the procedure for examining anti-corruption bills in the Commission was stopped because the Government had announced the presentation of its own measure. In view of the television announcements, via Twitter and through the entire armament of smart communication by the President of the Renzi Council, we would have expected, or rather, we were absolutely confident, not to say almost convinced, that the meeting of the Conference of the Leaders had been convened today expressly for this: to foresee the inclusion of the bill anti-corruption in the calendar. On the other hand, we have once again found ourselves faced with vague explanations and commitments from the Government and, as you know perfectly well and all my fellow senators have heard, there is no mention of such a bill, except the postponement to a forthcoming meeting of the Leaders of the possibility of understanding when this House will be able to examine it. Mr President, we are not talking about an essential issue: we are talking about an issue that is of great importance, not only in terms of propaganda, but also in terms of the real interest of the country. Among other things, the Government, present in the Commission, has also mentioned a number of justifications, for him there would be consultations with the opposition groups, consultations of which we know absolutely nothing and which seem to be carried out on request. At this point, we can only regret the fact that, in fact, we wanted to block the parliamentary initiative. So, despite the rhetoric in this House that we are only called upon to examine government measures and/or conversions of decree-laws, every time we have Parliament's own-initiative measures, by majority decisions, by the Conference of the Leaders and in this House, then by majority diktats, Parliament's initiative is put aside on a timely basis. I would like to raise the issue of the parliamentary initiative, Mr President, because you know that I have repeatedly called for the inclusion of the draft law on environmental crimes in the timetable - also for the first week of July, even after that - because this could serve as a stimulus to the work of the Commissions meeting. A bill, the one on environmental crimes, which was unanimously approved in the Chamber. It was not, therefore, a question of working fruitfully in order to be able to contribute and to play our part as a Senate. You know that in this country the introduction of environmental crimes has been expected for decades and you have personally worked on it. It is therefore unbearable that once again it is not known when the examination of that measure and that these two draft laws are not included in the timetable, which we consider to be absolutely urgent. Otherwise we can no longer bear that everyone fills their mouths on the land of fires and what they have done and on the eco-mafia: indeed, we urgently ask and postpone the constitution of the Commission, and then, when we can do something really useful, we do not assume responsibility. Instead of these two bills, what fits into the calendar? For Thursday, July 3, the draft law on constitutional reforms. Mr President, with regard to the draft Constitutional Reform Act, we are still at the stage of explaining the amendments, which are 5,000, and the deadline for tabling the amendments by the rapporteurs, which are announced from several quarters, has not yet been set, and the measure on constitutional reforms is included, at the request of the Zanda group leader, on the Assembly's agenda for Thursday 3 July. It is clear to everyone that this will mean being able to use very strong forms to speed up the debate and thus compress the same work within the Commission. We are talking, among other things, about a constitutional review process. I do not see that the conditions laid down for urgent procedure are met. Perhaps we were wrong. If someone is in urgent need, then we must take responsibility for having that measure voted by the House, where there is a surreptitious pressure only because the President-in-Office of the Council made a tweet with which he announced, by sea and mountains, that the examination of the measure must be included at the sitting on 3 July. The same concern is not manifested on matters absolutely much more important for the interests of our country, and I refer to the issues of anti-corruption and permanent damage, continuous and constant, not only by organized crime, but in a much wider way to the damage of the environment, with the biocidal product being carried out in our territory. Mr President, we propose an alternative timetable. It is clear from the new timetable that the examination of the draft law on constitutional reforms has been included at the sitting on Thursday 3 July. We then propose that in that same week the examination of both the environmental crime bill - there is the possibility in ten days to complete the work in the Commission, or in any case I am also willing to evaluate its inclusion from 7 July onwards - and the anti-corruption bill. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u19	If there are no other speeches, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Buccarella, aimed at the inclusion, in the week from 1 to 3 July, of the anti-corruption bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u21	Senator Calderoli, we're in the process of voting. I didn't see you before.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u22	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, just to ask for clarification. Is this an insertion or a replacement? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a replacement... CALDEROLI (LN-Aut). Then it's different. In this case, if it had been an insertion in the calendar of the anti-corruption bill, I would have voted... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...in place of the bill on constitutional reforms and the motion on celiac disease. This is the request that has been made. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Now I get it. I'd misunderstand it before.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u25	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask you to clarify the admissibility of this vote. The Commission deferred the examination of this measure at its request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What provision? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I am referring to the anti-corruption measure, which was deferred under Rule 51 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The deadline is one month within which the Government must give its instructions, and the examination cannot resume until after one month. Of course, afterward, it will be resumed immediately. Since 1 July will not have passed a month, I wonder how we are going to vote today on something which is contrary to what we have decided under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u26	I would remind you, however, that it was already included in the calendar and that we then removed it. We shall therefore proceed with the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Buccarella, to include, in the week from 1 to 3 July, the examination of the anti-corruption bill in place of constitutional reforms and the motion on celiac disease. It's not approved. (Senator Petrocelli raised his hand during the vote). Senator Petrocelli, are you abstaining? PETROCELLI (M5S). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. While I was asking who was abstaining, I saw her with her hand up. I have already stated the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u27	Mr President, I understand that this request may not seem acceptable to you, and it is in your power to decide on it, but we are asking you for counterproof as a sign of political tangibleness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u28	It was so clear. It is right that you should ask, but, after consulting the Secretary Senators, the outcome of the vote is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u29	PETROCELLI (M5S). I fully understand that on this subject we do not want to give a minimum of political flexibility with a vote of counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u30	Let us turn to the proposal to amend the timetable, put forward by Senator De Petris, to replace the discussion of constitutional reforms with the examination of the draft law on environmental crimes. The proposal to include the anti-corruption measure has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I proposed the inclusion of both subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u34	All right, so let's vote on your proposal as a whole. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u37	PETROCELLI (M5S). In this vote, the right-wing doors have actually been open all the time, with more than one colleague leaving. For this reason, I will reject the request for counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u38	The doors close after the request, not before. However, the result of this vote is also quite clear and clear. Senator De Petris' proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u39	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion 133 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u40	Mr President, in view of the previous vote on the issue of environmental crimes, we are on the subject of which there is certainly something to do with the events concerning the damage to the environment that we are dealing with in the motion, which was tabled exactly a year ago and which is finally being discussed today. From this point of view, unfortunately, we are used to seeing the fact that motions are not discussed when there is a need, because we are trying to postpone the debate continuously. The story of the city of Civitavecchia is known not only to the citizens of Lazio, because since the early sixties it has been a pole that has seen the construction of three different thermal power plants, with a concentration of emissions that has led to a really very heavy impact on the health of the citizens not only of that municipality, but of the whole vast area, so to speak, of the North of Lazio, even with repercussions, which had also been deducted from many investigations, up to the city of Rome. (Followed by Mr De PETRIS) Long before December 2003, ENEL presented a further project for the conversion of the coal fuel oil plant. We are talking about a date that is not of the last century, when it was now known to all, and there were already very precise indications also from the European Commission, that it was necessary to start profiling a strategy of exit from the use of coal for the production of electricity. On 24 December 2003, the so-called EIA decree authorized ENEL to convert, employing three groups. Long before the decree itself there had been a strong mobilization of citizens of Civitavecchia, Tarquinia, Cerveteri and Ladispoli; in short, there had been the involvement of citizens of the whole area heavily affected by the alleged (now we know absolutely certain) impact on health. Therefore, not only, generically, on the issues of the quality of the environment and the air, but on the health of the citizens, with their economic repercussions. It was clear to everyone that coal conversion was not a step forward from the point of view of environmentally sustainable technologies, but a bullying return to the past. Public health data in the Civitavecchia area and all epidemiological studies since the early 1990s have fully demonstrated the severity of the situation. The EIA measure on the Torrevaldaliga Nord plant clearly states that emissions in the past have had a very strong impact on the health of citizens. There are many data produced by the Regional Epidemiological Observatory for the two years 1990-1991. In 1996, the Epidemiological Observatory pointed out that that area of Lazio was in second place in terms of mortality and cancer. In October 1999, moreover, further alarming data are published from which there is a percentage in the mortality of women 12 percent higher than the average of the Lazio Region. A further study, commissioned by the National Institute of Environmental Earth Sciences, has denounced a huge increase in the risk of cancer. I could cite other data, all annexed to the acts of the Commission (and there are so many), including the recent study conducted by the Department of Epidemiology of the Lazio Region in the period 2006-2010. Faced with all this and the fact that the local health company ASL Roma F in May 2013 has deliberated the establishment of the register of tumors (just for the serious situation of alarm for public health), on March 12, 2013 the Ministry of the environment renews the integrated environmental authorization of the plant of Torrevaldaliga Nord, further aggravating the already precarious environmental and health situation, allowing to increase the hours of operation and the quantities of emissions compared to the authorizations dating back to 2003. Although there has been an overall deterioration in the operating conditions of the power plant from 2003 to 2013 (just think that coal consumption has risen from 3,600 to 4,500 tonnes), the 2013 AIA allows the use of coal with a sulphur content of less than 1% instead of 0,3. An impact, from this point of view, really very heavy. By virtue of the emergency waste of Rome and Lazio, in 2013 the Ministry of the Environment issued a decree that greatly simplifies the regulation and that provides for the introduction of secondary solid fuel (CSS). All this in direct connection with the ventilated possibility of being able to use one of the power stations of Civitavecchia, in particular the Torrevaldaliga Sud, with the CSS. Among other things, on this there is also a municipal order, issued on 26 April 2013, which provides for the total and absolute prohibition of combustion, at the power plants and at the industrial factories of the territory, of CSS. Madam President, I think that we are faced with a situation that must be tackled absolutely, because in the meantime, after the renewal of the AIA authorisation in 2013, with the possibility of increasing the hours of operation and especially the use of coal with a sulphur percentage well above 0.3%, the situation has become much worse from an environmental and health point of view. Moreover, with the increase in the hours of operation of the plants another paradoxical situation has been created: we are putting at even greater risk the safety of the plants and the workers, because having decreased the hours of detention, the hours of maintenance have also decreased heavily, thus creating a situation of risk. With our motion, we ask that the Conference of Services on the AIA of the Torrevaldaliga Nord power station be reopened in order to reduce operating conditions, with a decrease in the working hours of the plant and, above all, in the annual quantities of burnt coal and in the quality of the coal itself in relation to the sulphur content. Above all, we ask that an exit strategy finally be put on the field that leads in 2020 to the closure of the plant itself and to ensure the respect of the AIA for Torrevaldaliga Sud. Among other things, it is news of a few hours ago that the Tirrenia Power, the company that manages the plant of Torrevaldaliga Sud, but also manages the Turbogas of Naples and other plants, has announced a letter of collective dismissal for 300 people. Those who have always used the pretext of safeguarding jobs to poison workers and citizens, therefore, once again endanger not only the health of the citizens, but also, and ruthlessly, the working conditions and the very maintenance of the job. That is why we call on the House to consider not only this motion, but above all the reopening of the Conference of Services in order to review all the authorisations contained in the AIA. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u41	I greet and welcome, on behalf of the Assembly, the representatives of the Lions Club of Giarre-Ripposto, in the province of Catania, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u42	I call Senator Martelli to explain motion 274 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u43	Madam President, just for the sake of science, I would like to point out that in Torrevaldaliga Nord the authorization is to burn 3,600,000 (and not 3,600) tons of coal, brought to 4,500,000, and that the company that owns the Torrevaldaliga Sud plant is the Tirreno Power and not Tirrenia (that is the shipping company on the Tyrrhenian Sea). Having said that, our motion contains essentially two points. The first is of a local character and concerns one of the two plants that are located in the city of Civitavecchia, precisely in Torrevaldaliga Nord. The second point, which is more general, for us wants to represent a kind of challenge: we challenge you to go and put your hand on an energy plan that makes sense and that is not just made of spot interventions, like pulling a gas pipe from Shah Deniz in Azerbaijan, making some holes to pull up the worst oil there is in the world or trying to build power stations that burn coal and CSS in co-combustion. Civitavecchia is important as a local point because it has an Italian record: it has the highest ratio between installed power and number of inhabitants. This ratio in Italy is 1.4 kilowatts per inhabitant, in Civitavecchia it is 70, so 50 times as much. If this same relationship were respected throughout Italy, our country would have an electrical generation capacity equal to that of the entire American territory (North and South America): we would supply 6,200 megawatts of installed power. Clearly, there is an anomaly in a city of 100,000 inhabitants. As has been mentioned, there are two installations in the city: one from 1,980 megawatt to Torrevaldaliga Nord, and one from 1,200 megawatt to Torrevaldaliga Sud. That of Torrevaldaliga Nord is important because it belongs to a society controlled by the State, and such a society has as its first mission, as its first duty, not to do useful, but to do something socially useful (the adverb makes a remarkable difference between those who pursue pure profit and those who pursue different purposes). So that's what we focus on. Among other things, these two power stations are not the only ones impacting the city, because 30 kilometers away there is the largest power station in Italy, the "Alessandro Volta" of Montalto di Castro, with 3,600 megawatts, fuel-powered. Fortunately for everyone, it works for 3,000 hours a year, but it is still a monster looming, and it is the second or third central of Europe, surpassed only by the Bełchatów monster in Poland which has 13 groups and 5,200 megawatts. Just to give some scientific input. Why do we focus on the coal plant and these plants in Italy? Because they have a primacy, that of negative externalities, that is the extra-health and environmental costs that generate as a relapse on the territory. According to a study by the University of Stuttgart, the deaths caused by coal-fired power plants in Europe are 22,300, of which 521 in Italy alone. Extracost is easily calculated. ARPA, for example, has estimated that there are 3.6 billion extra health costs in the last ten years, caused only in the area of Civitavecchia, and the only damage to agriculture for 2009 is 156 million. So you understand that at the time of the decision to close that plant, we would already have a saving of 156 million, which is not small, and that they would be freed for other activities. The objection could be: why do you want to shut down the plant? In fact, our motion calls for us to leave this plant by 2020. We ask for a very simple reason: because Italy suffers from an excess of electricity generation. We have an installed power of 124 gigawatts, with an instant average power, i.e. the average power required over a day of 37, with a minimum of 20 and a historical maximum of 56,8. The average power generated with our park is 69, and is higher than the maximum peak expected by Terna for 2023. So we could stand still and do nothing until 2023 and still have the chance to generate electricity. It follows that this power station is not needed, as no other power plant is needed. Having said that, the invitation is as follows: since Civitavecchia has already suffered all the environmental impact related to forty years of emissions from the other plant, which was the largest plant in Italy together with Porto Tolle, is still suffering the impact of the Torrevaldaliga South plant that burns methane (but methane produces the same pollutants as coal), and then there is always the Montalto di Castro plant, we ask a commitment to the Government to intervene, as a majority shareholder, to exit from the coal plant of Torrevaldaliga Nord by 2020. We are also asking for something more, namely to set up an exit from coal in Italy by 2025. The plants will however be mostly at the end of life by that date, because the duration of a plant is written (there is nothing to do: it is in the project data). We ask for many reasons: the negative externalities I have already listed them, but there is not only this. Every time we burn a kilo of coal, we produce almost three kilos of CO2. This means that this plant alone produces 16 million tonnes of CO2. We have committed ourselves to reducing CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, and coal is the energy source that produces the most, because coal is carbon, and a carbon molecule is two of oxygen. At least methane is a little bit more generous, because it's made of a carbon atom and four hydrogen, and it's two of oxygen, so it's a little more environmentally honest. So that's why we're asking. The English Court of Auditors has made accounts, in fact, and has said that every tonne of CO2 has a negative externality that costs between 30 and 120 dollars. Let's make an average of 60. This plant produces 15 million tons: 900 million extra costs due only to emissions into the atmosphere. This is already another good reason for stopping coal. The other reason is that despite what they say, clean coal doesn't exist, it's a fake and it's called greenwashing. It does not exist because if you say that there is a filtration plant it is good to remember the law of mass conservation: in the absence of nuclear reactions, so much mass burns so many ashes are obtained, neither more nor less. In part they are in the air, in part they are in the ground, in part they are in the blessed filters, which you declare as resolving the problem. The filter stops only a part of the mass, the particles big enough. If it stopped them all, the filter would stop exactly the same mass being burned, four and a half million tons, which is impossible. Moreover, filters let the smallest particles pass through which, according to any medical study, are the ones that go deeper into the lung tissue and cause the most serious damage. So don't tell us that a filter solves the problem. Then there is the question of ashes. The latter come from an ancient ore, coal, and therefore contain many heavy metals, including cadmium and mercury, and are also weakly radioactive. Therefore, the genius of incorporating them into concrete, as some propose, is meaningless. These are all challenges that must be met in order to get out of coal and not meet with such monsters. Our proposal aims to ensure that the Government is committed to allocating all the resources budgeted by ENEL for coal interventions, such as re-enhancing, exclusively for re-environmentalization, i.e. better filters, localised electricity generation, developing domestic energy storage systems, re-activate pumping systems. We have tabled a motion in this direction, because hydroelectric pumping allows us to optimize and harmonize the day generation produced by discontinuous energy sources: wind, discontinuous by definition, and photovoltaic because it works only at a certain time of the day. It's about taking the same money and directing it somewhere else. The government must have this mission. A society controlled by the public must have this mission: to use money for the best purpose in favour of the community, and not to produce profit. This is our invitation. The money is there, so on the one hand we save on externality and on the other we divert funds already in the budget. We can do this and find ourselves in the front row in what is the global trend. At this moment in the world coal is used because it costs little, but it does not cost little in itself, but because in the United States it has been put out of the market by their legislation which provides for a roof to mercury emissions from the chimney. In this way, coal is out of the market. So, let's not be swallowed up by a cheap raw material, because when something costs little often it's a big piece of crap. The fact that someone should reject it should also be a warning to us not to take it. And not only that, but also the secondary solid fuel (CSS), mentioned by Senator De Petris. Let us not put ourselves in the perspective of using these plants as CSS incineration furnaces, because we would make a huge mistake, and our children would never forgive us. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u44	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion 276.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u45	Madam President, I would like to start with the latest statements by Senator Martelli, who said that we must spend well the resources we have, and that is a fundamental point. Since we must spend the resources we have well, and in this motion we speak of regasifiers, in the course of the illustration I will clarify why regasifiers do not serve. They not only do not serve Italy, but they do not serve Europe either. Since we are talking so much about Europe - we recently held the European elections and elected a new European Parliament - we should broaden our vision to Europe and see if it really needs a regasifier. We all know the evolution of the energy scenario. We went through a general evolution from a strong use of gas oil and, as Senator Martelli reminded us a moment ago, we also resumed an ancient source, coal, for exquisitely economic reasons. Someone in Italy said that it is a matter of differentiating sources, but the problem is that if we differentiate sources but do not reflect on what we do we are not doing our work well. Our perspective, in fact, is to remind us that Europe, and Italy in particular, takes energy sources from abroad: 86% of energy sources Italy buys them from abroad. Italy, however, has many things, and above all very sunny (we know), as well as a discreet wind: we could therefore reflect on these points. However, I want to return to the speech on regasifiers: here, I am very keen to make an exquisitely economic analysis, because I know that it is a topic that you are most passionate about. Let us face the numbers given to us by various bodies, such as the European Commission or the ENI - and which are therefore not invented by us, but are official - and let us use them to prove that regasification is not necessary. To do this, we must consider three points, with reference to Europe: consumption, domestic production and import capacity. As far as consumption is concerned, we know that in Europe we used 530 billion cubic metres of gas in 2005, but the data dropped because in 2011 we used 468 cubic metres of gas and in 2013 we used 462. These are data from Eurogas, the association that brings together all gas distributors, which tells us that in 2035, i.e. 21 years from now, the increase in gas demand in Europe will be 7% higher than in 2010. Let's say that this is a fact: let's take it as a good thing. Also in Italy we have reduced gas consumption, from 84 billion cubic meters in 2005 to 70 of 2013 and, for 2023, SNAM estimates a demand of 74 billion cubic meters, therefore lower than that of 2003 (here is therefore the scenario that the SNAM anticipates - therefore not us - for 2023). How much gas does Europe produce? Let's see the internal production: the latest available data, which is from 2012, reports 157 billion cubic meters. Let's make a prediction at 2035, since we have a request for that date, and we assume that we will produce 100 billion cubic meters, so many less, considering that sources tend to run out. What, then, is the capacity to import gas into Europe? We import it via tube or regasifiers. I went to study two very beautiful maps of Europe - which are also found on the Internet, and if studied it is good for you - the first of which represents all the tubes present in Europe and the European transit capacity, while the second includes all the European regasification terminals, those in operation and those planned (also in this case, if studied it is good for you). I have studied them, and according to the data of 2012, the import capacity is equal to 530 billion cubic meters via pipeline, while for the regasifiers to date it is 197 billion cubic meters: therefore we have in total 720 billion cubic meters. However, since the demand - as I said before - is equal to the result of the removal of 100 billion cubic metres from those 570 cubic meters, which is 470, to date, with the infrastructure we have, we are able to import into Europe a volume of gas of 54 percent higher than the forecast of 2035. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, guys, since the numbers have never been an opinion, and the ones I used are officers, I didn't make them up, tell me why we have to make a regasifier. What's the reason? Do we want to spend the money well? So, let's think: if we can import 54 percent more gas to date than forecast for 2035, explain why you want to make a regasifier. There are other interesting things to do. The Iberian Peninsula, for example, has seven regasifiers, which work at 30 percent of their potential. You know what gas does? It arrives in France with the ship, is unloaded and, since the tube that connects France is small, is put back on the ship and is carried from other parts. Wouldn't it be more important to make a pipe to connect existing regasifiers in France? Maybe so, but then maybe we can do this. Another important point of regasification is the United Kingdom, which also has a large gas import capacity: our SNAM has acquired the entire gas network in the South of France, taking it from Total, and has entered into the first agreement to build a trans-European infrastructure, the Interconnector, which will connect Belgium to Great Britain. The SNAM, then, is doing important things, just follow them: go and study them, because, if it does, it probably has already reasoned on these numbers. If these are the data and facts we are talking about, we continue to ask why you want to create a regasifier in Gioia Tauro and Trieste. Who needs it? Do you know who it's for? It's because we guarantee the minimum, even if that plant doesn't work. We guarantee him the minimum, but do you know who pays? Well, gentlemen, the money is being kicked out by the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this policy, in fact, we continue to make unnecessary infrastructure and to charge them for the bill. We are asking for rational measures, which is what Europe wants: for example, by increasing existing interconnections (the interconnections of electricity will be discussed again). And then we invite you to dare if we want to get out of this loop. As we've all read, Tesla Motors has done a fantastic act. He took the company's patents and made them open source: patents are available to all citizens of the world to go well with the electric. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we - I am talking about transport - do not have the strength and the will to change this system and to realize that the only way we have is to use our endogenous resources, so that we can no longer be slaves to the gas that Putin gives us (let's say, just to understand ourselves) and that old imperialism that came from overseas, if we don't get out of this logic, what force does Europe have? You are always talking about Europe, but do we want to give strength to this Europe? Otherwise, what are we talking about? We must have the courage to dare! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's move on. But that doesn't end the way it usually ends: we told you and then you don't do the same things. So learn to be careful and to reason. Above all, as always, I urge you to study. We try to study, and our advice is always to study, because from knowledge, as we always say, comes also the political vision. Perhaps, though, you have stopped studying. It's time for you to start over. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u46	I call the Senator-Council to explain motion No 1-00277.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of these motions is a glowing opportunity to talk about energy. This is a strong demand, because we have repeatedly denounced the lack of a national strategy on this very subject. More than just the motion that we have tabled, which is very dry in some respects but, probably, is more able to understand and make clear how much our movement intends to communicate to the House today, I would like to stress the following. It is clear that a national energy strategy, given the problems related to the great structural weakness that Italy has always had as a country with regard to energy supply, always remains very topical (and probably always will be, if we do not run for shelter). "Italy, unlike other European countries, is (...) deprived of its own energy resources, and this represents a strong threat to the development of a truly efficient and competitive energy sector": in our motion we began this way. And it is quite clear, as I said, that a national energy strategy must address issues relating to medium and long-term prospects. It is therefore appropriate to draw up a balanced and sustainable strategy including issues such as energy efficiency. But a fundamental component must certainly concern electrical production. An electric production that will be, in the near future, since we have renounced other sources of energy production, the backbone for a country that still aspires to maintain its positions alongside the most advanced economies in the world. We always remember that we have a small and medium-sized company that pays about 27% more for energy and that this makes it uncompetitive in exports, especially in the manufacturing sector. I listened to Senator Cioffi, who spoke about Europe. I would like to remind the senator and myself that in Europe of 27 nations clearly demonstrate that the basic sources for a reliable and sustainable system must necessarily be based on coal and nuclear. That is what other states do. This is what all the G8 countries teach, excluding Italy. I remember that the more one source is neglected, the more you need to tap into the other. Madam President, Italy has an abnormal and asymmetric situation, with only 13% of coal production, and nothing with regard to the production of energy from nuclear power (and, I must add, on our territory, because we buy the missing part from the French nuclear power stations). Another serious Italian anomaly is that of national electricity production, where Italy historically produces only about 85 percent of electricity on its territory. We are the biggest importer of this energy. I believe that a small reflection should also be made on this point. In these days the Ukrainian crisis has been incredibly strong, which has brought back to Italy the problem of the diversification of energy sources. One way not to depend on Russian gas and geopolitical problems is by regasifiers. One of the solutions we have called for in this motion is to focus on the development (or, as the Undersecretary has suggested here, also on the development) of advanced technologies, through the employment of state-of-the-art methane ships. Well, we, in our motion, raise all the necessary doubts with regard to energy issues. I would like to remind you that just today in 10a The Commission has been voting for a long work of hearings that we have carried out over the last few months. I think it has been a very timely job and, although the product that came out of it is not 100% spectacular, something has still been done. The problem is dependence and energy security; it is a problem that other countries have also solved in part, but, precisely because of a matter of lack of raw material, Italy - as often happens - is the one that suffers the most. The supply of fossil resources is a priority problem for countries that do not have them directly on their territory; I therefore believe that at the heart of the debates there must always be a force for dependence and energy security. Energy dependence is the indicator that represents the need to use imports to meet your energy needs; when that happens, it means that you have someone on the other side who potentially has a tap to close. The supply, for a matter of use, must have adequate infrastructure, must be fast, diversified and extremely reliable. As far as reliability is concerned, I would remind you that from 2000 to 2012 the energy bill increased from EUR 37 billion to EUR 64 billion, with an impact of 4.5% of GDP. As usual, the cost of the charges for the supply of petroleum products has risen from €18.6 billion to €34 billion, increasing by 87.5%. I believe that this data, for a country that has virtually zero growth, must surely make people think. I would therefore like to make another point. Europe had set up an action plan for security and solidarity in the energy sector, which focused on several points: links with energy markets still isolated in Europe; the creation of a southern gas transport corridor for gas supply from the Middle East and the Caspian region; the idea of using liquefied natural gas to diversify the European market; and the idea of connecting Europe with the southern shore of the Mediterranean through gas and electricity interconnections. This is to say what, Madam President? That there is a will on the part of Europe to build infrastructure and to put in a position to interconnect all the States of Europe to 28; that there is a desire to make sure that there is the possibility of resorting also to a diversification of supply that comes directly from ships that circulate in the Adriatic, as it happens for Italy with the supply from Qatar, that it puts in condition our Country to be a little more autonomous vis-à-vis the Countries of the East. In our motion, then, we have considered that in recent years new technologies have developed in the sector which have enabled gas to be supplied not only by regasifiers (which, however, we do not consider to be the mother of all evils): therefore, the projects that have been approved and those that are about to be verified can certainly be verified. I am referring to state-of-the-art methane vessels that allow the transformation of methane from liquid to gaseous form directly on the ship itself. We therefore call for the Government, at this point, also to develop advanced technologies through the use of such state-of-the-art methane vessels as well as - if necessary - to review the projects under authorisation, if developed according to technologies with systems on the ground, now outdated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u48	I call Senator Puppato to explain motion 279.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u49	Madam President, I regret to address issues of such importance to our country and to Europe, but - I would like to say - to the whole world, in the presence of a few colleagues, although I imagine that the debate will be over tomorrow morning. The European strategy, like the Italian one, towards the so-called decarbonisation that has been decided, as we know, with Objective 2050, obliges all of us to review and update, in the light of this, our energy choices; in fact, the reduction of fossil sources, together with climate change, are - I would like to remind you, because they have not been mentioned in previous speeches - the first and fundamental reason why we must rethink an energy strategy. We must therefore try as far as possible to achieve clean energy, avoiding the pollution that produces the use of fossil fuels (from coal, to finish with oil and, in part, also gas), increasing - this is the European strategy, as is well known - the quantity of renewable sources and, of course, increasing energy efficiency. In particular, the global strategy will focus on energy efficiency and renewables, which should also see at the table two important international references, fundamental for a choice that the planet can see directed on the same objectives and on the same basis, namely the United States of America (the recent Obama declaration is certainly an example of this) and China, which, as is well known, has always intended to wait for the choices of the United States of America before producing a decision that could modify the industrial system by reducing its emissions accordingly. I'm going to take credit for the motions now. The first motions that we have heard today from my fellow Members who have succeeded relate to the subject of regasifiers and an issue that concerns the locality of Civitavecchia, in which situations of particular environmental and health problems are occurring. Faced with this, in our motion, as we know, we have mentioned not only the Europe 2020 strategy, now known to all, but also the direction issued this year by the European Commission, with the demand for European countries to increase the share of renewable energy to 27% and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. However, I would certainly like to mention some of the issues that have been raised to point out (despite some lessons to make us understand how there is someone who studies and someone who studies less) many inaccuracies that have been communicated and also give us some additional information, because we too have some information. First of all, it would be good for each of us to take a good step back and decide for the good of this country to establish that, instead of proclaiming so many certainties, such as those that today see the methane ships as an idyllic solution and instead consider the regasifiers as a bad solution, perhaps it would be the case that we went to deal technically, scientifically, in a decent way with these issues, for example listening to what are the benefits, the costs and the solutions that come in one sense and in the other with respect to the hypotheses in the field. I say this because natural gas, whatever the case may be, is certainly, at least until 2040, a source that is identified by the European Union itself as a necessary part of a natural mix together with renewable sources in order to be able to cover energy needs, despite the immediate need to activate a good competitiveness, increasing research in the field of materials that can allow a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but also in that of new renewable energies and energy efficiency. Natural gas is, however, among all fossil fuels, certainly the one that causes a lower burden with regard to emissions into the atmosphere, since it emits water vapor and carbon dioxide in quantities far lower than oil and coal. Compared to regasifiers, it is necessary to take into account the importance of supply infrastructures in their strategic nature, due to the need to achieve a higher supply of gas on the domestic market at competitive prices and more effective conditions of competition, as well as to increase security of supply. The latter is an issue which for Italy is by no means so quiet and defined, as some interventions suggest. I mean that, with regard to regasification terminals, the South Stream pipeline has been mentioned but we can mention the TAP (Trans-Adriatic pipeline) and also the GALSI pipeline from Algeria to Sardinia that has been waiting to be completely realized since 2003: well, all these routes of gas connection tell us that geopolitical origin, that is the origin of the sources from the energy producing countries, puts our country in serious difficulty. The recent case of the war in Ukraine has made this problem immediately apparent, and inevitably leads us to have to make internal reflections in the country, at least for the next twenty years, in relation to the mode of gas supply on the national market. The regasification terminals, therefore, give us a flexibility that the gas lines do not give us: they do not bind the import to a single foreign supplier and favour the direct entry into the Italian market of the natural gas of new operators. Moreover, they can produce, with good purchases, a decrease in the price of gas for the consumer, as already pointed out in the hearings at the 10th Senate Commission in the context of the survey on electricity and gas prices as a strategic factor for the growth of the country's production system. Therefore, the system of diversification, in the ways, in the instruments and also in the infrastructures, is fundamental for Italy, but also for Europe: it is the same Europe that asks us to create a Mediterranean hub for the exchange of gas. Europe has the same concerns as Italy today. I therefore believe that I can say without a question of denial that our country must certainly equip itself with pipeline terminals, together with the regasifiers and the methane ships; but, as I said, these are very technical issues, on which we will go, I hope, with the Environment and Industry Commissions in particular, to make punctual evaluations, and not to shoot in the pile. Compared to the issues concerning the areas mentioned, I remember that we have a regasifier in Rovigo, one in Livorno and one in Panigaglia. With regard to the safety of the existing regasification plants and of the projects in itinere we must say - and we write it explicitly in the motion that the majority intended to roll out - that the regasification plant of Gioia Tauro will not be realized except with full guarantee regarding the dangers related to the seismicity of the site. As regards the two projects of regasification terminals in the Gulf of Trieste, it is appropriate to inform colleagues that for the on-shore installation a measure was adopted to suspend the effectiveness of the EIA decree, while for the offshore one the other has even given an assessment of negative environmental impact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). This means that Italian legislation, in terms of environmental impact assessment, can also say no, and it is saying so. The issue of Civitavecchia is another matter, and I am sorry that my time is running out. However, I want to say that these are certainly plants with considerable problems, so much so that we can certainly consider them more obsolete than what should be an installation with those characteristics. As far as we are concerned, we agree that they are not suitable for any form of conversion into waste-to-energy heaters, both with CSS and with CDR. It should also be said that, with regard to the AIA requirements for the Torrevaldaliga Sud plant of 5 April 2011 and the recently foreseen prescriptions and compensations in the Torrevadaliga Nord EIA, there is a strong incentive from this House to ensure that ENEL respects them and that they are absolutely guaranteed. The commitments we ask the government to make are reported in the motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You should finish, Senator: the time at your disposal is over. PUPPATE (PD). We certainly need to think of a national epidemiological survey in all areas exposed to pollution from existing coal plants and power plants, monitoring and monitoring with particular reference to the most polluting industrial plants and a decarbonisation strategy by 2050, with intermediate targets for 2020, 2030 and 2040. I think that we can do all these things together, and we can reduce, until we cancel, the fossil fuel strategy, but we can do it together, taking advantage of it for the European Semester that we will have, with the Europe that awaits us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u50	Colleagues, there is a delegation of students from the Seminary of parliamentary studies and research "Silvano Tosi" of the University of Florence. We hope they can follow the Senate's work fruitfully, and we greet them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u51	I call Senator Pelino to explain motion 280.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u52	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, climate and energy policy must pursue three fundamental objectives: security of supply, achievement of environmental objectives and competitiveness of industry. These are policies that need to be framed in a global context, if it is true that Europe is responsible for only 14% of global emissions. On this basis our reasoning is based, which cannot be limited to the momentary problem of a regasifier or a power plant. The Civitavecchia power station is one of the largest energy poles in the country. It meets more than 50% of the energy needs of the Lazio region. The proposed reduction of the activities of the plant, which are derived as a consequence of the motions presented by SEL and the 5 Star Movement, could result in heavy and difficult to manage repercussions on about 1,000 workers, between direct and indirect, and on a large induced linked to the activities of the plant. We are well aware that the health of citizens comes first: therefore, let there be all the information that can escape any doubt about the dangerousness of the plants, to protect the health of the people. But the future of thousands of working families is also at stake here, and we cannot fail to take this into account. For this reason, we invite all the actors involved not to take positions of principle, but to monitor that the ENEL plant respects, as it has done in previous years, all the obligations and guarantees that the law prescribes. It is useful to remember some data. Compared to the previous fuel oil plant, all emissions from the new power plant have been severely reduced: less than 61 per cent from nitrogen oxides and less than 88 per cent from dust and sulphur dioxide (less than 50% from the limits set to protect health and the environment by the stringent European standards). We must consider that Italy urgently needs to diversify and balance the mix of primary sources for electricity generation, to support competitiveness and reduce the strategic risk for energy supplies. The need is to gradually reduce the incentives for renewables, now amounting to EUR 9 billion per year, which already weigh heavily on the bills of businesses and citizens. Gas consumption to supply energy production has, moreover, reached what is considered to be a maximum threshold. Our country depends on gas for electricity production for more than 60%. A reflection must be made on this. Let's remember that economic growth is the main urgency of the country at both economic and social level. This also requires a reduction in electricity costs by at least 30%, in order to promote the competitiveness of Italian companies. In order to return to the Civitavecchia power station, a check must certainly be made so that the production and safety standards of Torrevaldaliga Nord are at adequate levels of efficiency. On the other hand, investments (about 2 billion) have been made on the central one that cannot be thrown away so lightly. With our motion we ask the Government: taking into account the Commission's communication of 13 November 2008 entitled "Energy Efficiency: achieving the target of 20% (primary energy reduction), to highlight any obstacles in Italy to the implementation of effective measures aimed at this objective and the measures taken to date, and which will be adopted, to overcome them; to list all energy production sites that represent a serious problem for human health in terms of the increase of diseases and deaths and strategies, or proposals, that until now the competent Ministries (economic development and health) have synergistically developed, for those sites, in order to safeguard the production of energy and to protect human health; to assess whether the management of incentives for photovoltaics have been a waste of public financial resources, with little benefit on the costs of electricity produced, with a growth of bills, with problems of disposal of plants at the end of life, or have really contributed and contribute significantly to energy efficiency for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u53	I declare the debate open. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Representative of the Government, Italy, in an attempt to limit its dependence on energy from abroad, has invested heavily in alternative and renewable resources in recent years. Of course, everyone would like to produce all the electricity using only photovoltaic, wind, geothermal and, of course, hydro. We remember that the last governments, since 2000, have given a strong boost to the production of electricity from renewable sources. However, we do not ignore that the substantial incentives put in place, then reduced over time, through the energy account, have created an economic sector with companies and new jobs, but they have also made the fortune of many speculators and, above all, they have raised the electricity bill that for many years will have to pay all Italians. Several studies have shown that first of all it is impossible to produce all the electricity required by users through the use of renewables (today, including hydropower, we are at 25% compared to needs). Secondly, there is the need to ensure an energy mix or differentiation of sources, as Mr Cioffi said before, in order to reduce dependence on countries producing fossil fuels, especially oil and methane. I remember that, in this sense, we depend on 80%. Moreover, it is worth pointing out that Italy's energy balance, specifically for electricity, has a significant deficit of 13.1%. Terna's latest available data indicate that, out of a total energy demand of 316 terawattora in 2012, as many as 43.1 are imported from abroad, even from nuclear producers. This is a paradox. Therefore, the need to produce a part of electricity with coal is part of this opportunity of the energy mix. Coal is still today identified as the most economical fossil fuel to produce electricity, even though the concentrations of carbon dioxide produced in the atmosphere are higher than those produced by methane power plants. However, a lot of technological progress has been made and progress has been made in reducing emissions and, in any case, the 24h monitoring imposed by the EIA decrees and the AIA guarantee levels of concentration compatible with the environment. The ENEL plant in Civitavecchia, which is the subject of motions 133 (text 2) and 274 (text 2), from several parts defined as an efficiency model or as one of the best examples of a coal-fired power plant, also presents a room for process control and adequate electronic instrumentation for the continuous monitoring of the level of emissions to ensure very strict daily averages imposed by environmental permits. Also the present coal transport and storage plants are an excellence and, I guarantee, they are quite different compared to what is still shamefully present in the plant of Ilva in Taranto or in that of Lucchini in Piombino. Italy in recent years, also following the 1987 referendum, after the Chernobyl disaster, had strongly unbalanced its energy mix towards gas, which certainly pollutes less, but remains expensive, being the trend of its price linked to that of crude oil. The need to rebalance the competition of the sources participating in the electricity generation is therefore before everyone's eyes today. We cannot accept that, besides not being autonomous as a country, the cost of electricity in Italy is much higher than that of other European countries; an aspect, this, which for our companies has a significant impact on the cost of the final product and, therefore, on competitiveness. Eurostat certifies that electricity for households and industry is expensive for Italy and also for Germany (which see bills inflated due to taxation and incentives for renewables), while it has significantly cheaper prices in France (where production is based on nuclear) and in the countries of Eastern Europe that rely on coal. Excluding nuclear power, banned from the outcome of the 2011 popular referendum, coal, used with strict control systems, can be an alternative as it is a fuel widely available on the market and therefore cheaper than gas and oil. Clearly, the case of Civitavecchia is particular because since the early 1960s the city has undergone the construction of three fuel oil plants with a concentration of emissions that has, over the years, caused impacts on the health of citizens and the environment. But the alarming results of epidemiological investigations, as mentioned in the same motions, are due to the previous plants and there is no evidence that they can be charged to the emissions of the coal-reverted power plant with an intervention started in 2003 and completed in 2010. In any case, it is clear that the Civitavecchia coal-fired power plant is a controlled plant that has obtained all the environmental authorisations provided for by the current legislation. Asking for the reopening of the AIA is instrumental! If you do not share it, then you need to change the law that discipline! Of course, there is a constant need to guarantee the limits of law and environmental authorisations, because the health of citizens is involved. However, we cannot accept that the EIA Commission, as well as the ARPA and the other control bodies involved, are carrying out regular checks in accordance with the AIA and EIA requirements, as are the agreed compensations (e.g. ocean posidonia transplantation). The two motions on the Civitavecchia power plant also touch on the topic of combustion of the CDR and CSS, potentially usable in the territory for the production of electricity from heat-to-energy. This part in the texts is uneven, creates confusion and has nothing to do with the coal-fired power plant. I would remind you that already in September 2013 a wide-ranging debate took place in this House following the examination of specific motions, during which the group of the North League and Autonomous League had expressed the need to proceed with caution and above all the need to carry out in-depth investigations and checks prior to the use of CSS in cement factories, incinerators and waste-to-energy plants. Requests that unfortunately the government rejected. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u55	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on this subject a bit out of passion, a bit as a person aware of the facts, as we have been saying these days. I intervene to draw the attention of all of us to the fact that Italy, which is a great country and, in particular, a great industrial country, must absolutely guarantee to itself and to the whole national community the certainty and the economic sustainability of the energy supply. We are not in a position today to say, also because of complicated situations of an international character (think of the complex storms that exist in the East of our country, at the borders of the European Union), that this certainty exists. And this uncertainty, which exists, represents a substantial element of weakness for the life of the country. A few years ago, in an even more complicated situation, in the face of an interruption in the supply of Russian gas, a Minister of the Republic had the singular find to declare that the Italian families had no reason to fear because, in the event of a critical situation, the supply would be interrupted not to the families (which would not have remained in the cold) but only to the enterprises. As if a country like ours could afford an eventuality of this nature. I therefore appeal to the Government, as well as to all my colleagues in the Senate, to encourage the entire government, and in particular the Dicasteries that have a significant part in this game, to walk very quickly and determinedly on the energy policy line that has been defined and decided by the European Union. I am just taking a few examples of very important initiatives and options that concern our country in order to be just in the wake of that Community policy. Firstly, it is urgent to speed up the process of restoring strategic stocks. Today we are unable to say that the country's strategic gas stocks have been re-established at 100%: we are about 60%, and it is urgent to arrive at the completion of the recovery of those stocks. Secondly, it is necessary that the amount of storage available to the country grows significantly and rapidly: by translating, it is absolutely necessary to increase, in significant terms and - I repeat - quickly, the amount of underground deposits able to improve and increase the capacity of our strategic reserves. Thirdly, there is a need to increase the degree of diversification in energy supply. I mention only one title, in this case, which means a lot of things, which I will not call because all those involved in this matter know perfectly well what I mean: the option of increasing diversification in supply remains a strategic choice for us. I know the government is on this line, but I took the floor just to encourage the government on this path. There is another passage that I believe coincides with the political and strategic approach of the Italian government. We must focus a great deal on the option of overcapapacity, which is not a short-sighted and uneconomic option because it is considered as the result of an autarchic logic (overcapapacity compared to the internal market): overcapapacity is necessary in our country for there to actually be the possibility of having a Community energy market. There are countries which, at least because they have long coasts and opportunities to dock, are able to guarantee this overcapapacity to the European market. Switzerland is unable to do so and we cannot ask that country to carry out this continental function: this is a function that our country can carry out. That is why Community policy and strategy call for this contribution. Finally, I come to the question of the need for a true European energy market, which is a question of security but also of an economic nature, of consumer prices. 18.19 (Followed by Mr Sonego) For there to be a true European energy market, we need an energy infrastructure policy, which is certainly the pipeline, as regards petroleum products and also gas, but also electricity infrastructure. The electric jersey on horseback in the Alps is one of these supporting elements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking autarchically about energy issues, our strabism also has a negative impact on our foreign policy. I am thinking, for example, of the events of Central and Eastern Europe. I am thinking closer to us, for example, of the fact that this policy of ours, which is very selfish, ends up turning the right hand to policies that are somewhat nationalist and not always perfectly in line with the acquis communautaire of neighbouring states (I am thinking of Slovenia and Croatia). I would like to point out that, while there is sometimes an inconvenient discussion, often very uninformed and based on technical presuppositions to say the least faulty regarding regasifiers, the neighbouring Republic of Croatia is building a regasifier in the island of Krk, in Omišalj, obviously not with its own resources, but on the basis of a very substantial aid of large financial and energy groups of the Federal Republic of Germany. In this way, not only do we give up an energy policy, but we also miss the essential features of foreign policy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u57	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy gas consumption has risen from 84 billion cubic metres in 2005 to 70 in 2013, below the 2002 level. For 2023, SNAM estimates a demand of 74 billion cubic metres, lower than in 2003. The weakness of demand and the simultaneous excess of supply have led, in recent months, to a general trend towards the reduction of final gas prices. According to the report published by the Oxford institute for energy studies, European demand for gas will not return to 2010 levels before 2025. According to this analysis, consumption in the 35 countries of the European region is decreasing: from 594 billion cubic meters in 2010 to 564 in 2020, and then slightly rising to 618 in 2030. With this scenario, if we were in a process of governance, energy management would reopen the discussion on the energy strategy, with a rethinking of the need for regasifiers. Instead, without it being possible to understand its motivation, this Government also maintains a continuity with the guidelines already dictated by previous governments, and not only supports the regasifiers declaring them strategic, but encourages them. The concrete case I would like to talk about is the LLT of Livorno, which in January did not import gas. Or rather, according to more than reliable information from the Ministry of Economic Development, from the official day of commencement of its business until a few weeks ago, the regasifier never imported gas. The only use of the same regasifier was only and exclusively on 3 December last simply in the testing phase, when it approached the LNG LEO owned by the Eon (one of the two majority members). I repeat, it never worked except for testing. In the face of this situation of present futility of a huge infrastructure already realized, the vice minister of economic development De Vincenti has instead issued statements of the type: The savings that OLT has made us - note the past participle - is very significant. Well, I don't understand. Another statement: OLT is convenient for the country system because it is safer and cheaper, confirming precisely that the government considers the LLT of Livorno one of the strategic plants for the energy supply of the country. At this point it is absolutely worth adding that in the event that the regasifier in question is recognized as strategic, in the space of about ten years one billion euros will move from the pockets of the Italians, through a forced withdrawal and directed from their electric bills, to the coffers of the private company OLT. So, definitely a great operation for OLT. By broadening the view of the energy sector, we are forced to denounce, in spite of us, that, after seven negative measures, in these days has arrived yet another attack on the renewables sector, with the excuse, albeit right, of wanting to reduce the energy costs for small and medium-sized enterprises. Clearly and clearly, the announcement against renewables, made directly last Saturday by the President of the Council in the assembly of the PD, makes it clear that the Government in the matter of energy does not look to the future and to the next generations, but takes sides on the other side, openly cheering for fossil sources. A position, that of the Italian Government, in sharp contrast to what has been reported in recent days even by the newspaper "The Economist" which writes that in all the developing countries, and in the oil producing countries themselves, increases the drive to eliminate subsidies aimed at reducing the cost of fuels and petroleum products; a policy that has been in place for years in many countries but which, in fact, has disastrous effects in terms of budget deficits, distortions of the economy, environmental damage, without the poorest classes having real benefits, so - concludes "The Economist" - all in all, it is better to take them out. Similarly, the position supported by the International Energy Agency is that the elimination of subsidies on fossil products would lead to a 6% cut in carbon dioxide emissions by 2020. The 5 Star Movement, unlike those who support another type of policy, the one that does not see waste and pretends not to understand if it is more right to finance a regasifier, that is not usable, or if it is more intelligent to invest in innovation through the use of renewables, energy efficiency and storage systems, believes that the road to the future is another, and will work intensely to build it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u60	Mr President, the absence of raw materials in our country has historically put us in a deficit position compared to the rest of the world. As a result, our country, as far as energy resources are concerned, has always had to rely on sources from other countries, always remaining in a failing position and dependent on others. The obvious example was the industrial revolution, born in the Anglo-Saxon countries, seen and considered that they had coal and we unfortunately did not. If we had been a prudent, modern, state-of-the-art country, based on our geographical location, we would have historically used the alternative and ecological energy sources naturally present in our territory. Unfortunately - and unfortunately, I stress - Italy has historically always preferred to do something else, to use energy sources from fossil fuels, and at the time when it was tried to benefit from alternative energy sources the results have not been those hoped for. In fact, as my colleagues have rightly said, the results have weighed on the energy bills of our fellow citizens. Once again we have lost a train, losing a possible opportunity for the next generations. So what's the situation? The four fifths of the energy we use come from abroad, but also from nuclear power plants that produce electricity a few kilometers from our home: we, who in a referendum decided not to have nuclear power in Italy, actually have it a few kilometers away, where we go to buy electricity, knowing very well that the energy we buy comes also from those nuclear power plants. What, then, do we ask ourselves at this moment? We wonder why we do not finally create a serious project of energy policy, which we need, because Italy needs it: to ask it are in fact our country, but above all the companies and your Europe, the one that in the recent election campaign many of you have praised and exalted; but then, when it comes to going to see the concrete problems, we are always deficit, as usual. At the moment, therefore, we are being asked for an energy policy. We had the opportunity to start debating a real energy policy, when, during the Letta Government, we discussed and approved the project of the TAP gas pipeline (Trans Adriatic pipeline), thanks to which Italy will become a European hub with regard to the arrival of gas from countries outside Europe. We had this opportunity, as well as the opportunity to speak as protagonists with European partners, to say ours and, at that time, to start thinking about a real energy policy. Unfortunately, we did not, and we have always reasoned in emergency situations: we had to vote at the speed of light, we did and then we moved on to something else, perhaps something more pressing. What we are asking today is to think about an energy policy. Another important fact that we must highlight is that 90% of the gas we use comes from abroad, that is, from our historical suppliers, such as Russia, Libya and Algeria, states that currently give us huge quantities of gas, but that have internal political situations at very high risk. As a result, we all know very well that, because of the policy of those states, especially North Africans, we as Italy cannot have a medium- and long-term energy policy. In some cases, we have to depend on the moods of our partners, who very often are not the best towards Europe - and Italy, alas, is part of it - with the risk that every time it threatens us to close the taps if we do not do what they want. In this case, what can be an alternative proposal? The solution lies in the regasifiers, but in a future and modern perspective, trying not to make the usual reasoning with obsolete power stations and structures that at this moment look to the past. There are modern technologies with regard to the use of this form of energy, there are methane vessels, and through these - as we know very well and as my colleague Mr Council has said very well - we are able to apply new technologies. Let's do it, however, let's reason, let's go in that direction, otherwise we will always go towards the construction of a power station that will eventually create problems and inconveniences in the community. In addition to this, we reiterate this, and I say this to the Minister and the Government, we need an energy policy. But let us understand what your energy policy is if it is there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u61	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u62	Mr President, this is Parliament, that is the place where we speak, but here the words fall, they do not stop and nobody listens to them, since we do not listen and get misunderstood. I am sorry that Mrs Puppato has left, because she has made a huge mess, convinced that Mr Cioffi had said that gas is a pollutant: he did not say that, but that we have a higher import capacity than we need. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He spoke in fact of 700 billion cubic meters a year, against about 450 (and I apologize to be less precise than him with numbers, but he is engineer, I architect). It seemed very clear to me. I have to say that my colleagues have reported official data from the SNAM and the Electricity and Gas Authority: we are not talking about numbers that we have calculated in our offices, but about data that are within everyone's reach and are verifiable. So we find, as Mr Girotto also said, that the gas consumption is decreasing, that our capacity is higher and that our need for gas will not increase until 2025. I also wanted to make it clear that Mr Carlo Martelli said that coal, being a very old ore, is full of heavy metals and generates huge damage, which has a very strong economic fallback that we should bear in mind. These are also data, because we report here a study commissioned by Greenpeace in April 2012, titled "Enel Today & Tomorrow" based on the study of the Porto Tolle case carried out according to the criteria of the European Environment Agency. This study reveals that, only in 2009, there were EUR 3 billion in health costs, that 19 deaths due to environmental causes were foreseen and EUR 156 million was spent on damage to agriculture. Although numbers are not my subject, I have to admit that these numbers are clear, precise and give us a clear demonstration that this model of development has failed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are concerned then, clearly, to see that we still want to build regasifiers in Italy, when, from the answer to our question to the Chamber, rendered on June 3, 2014, we come to know that the La Spezia plant is not operational and that that of Livorno is still (which, for me, has exactly the same meaning). So, that means we're already oversized, right? - and we don't need to build any more regasifiers. A suspect, however, comes when Undersecretary De Vincenti reports that, if these are strategic companies, they will receive a guarantee system in investments. We know, in fact, that in Italy, there are no entrepreneurs, but only the entrepreneurs. Through this system of investment guarantees Livorno then receives, even if only to cover expenses, a nice economic package, and so it will be for the other regasifiers who want to build, since we have, for these works, a series of projects that also overlap. But if logic has not gone out of fashion, since we are talking about concrete things, numbers and data, I would like to know what logic the renewable sources are now attacking. It is being done in many parts, because we hear such attacks from Renzi, from Guidi, who says that we have to say enough to this environmentalism that wants to stop the perforations in the South and wants to prevent to recover this black gold, or we hear it from Galletti who, although he comes to give us a beautiful speech in the Commission, then says that our reference is SEN, that of Clini of the beginning of 2013. But that is not a true national energy strategy, which is in line with Europe! I then worry, because if the Italian semester is what is waiting for us and if this is our SEN, we are above all out of the question with Europe, because we are not going in the right direction. Mr President, what does the 20% reduction in 2020 mean? That means 1,000 coal-fired power stations will be shut down. But if we make the right investments in the right direction, we will have to shut down all the power stations! We should focus on this, which is the real Italian gold! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in five minutes' time Parliament is convened in the Chamber of Deputies for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions is therefore postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u66	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the Presidency and the House some aspects connected with the disposal of the wreckage of Costa Concordia which are not really negligible and irrelevant to the acts that Parliament and the Government have taken up so far. The conversion of Decree-Law No 147 of 26 April 2013 was the first act we took in this House. It carried urgent dispositions for the throw again of the industrial area of Piombino, and to paragraph 7 of article 1 it allocated approximately 50 million euros, of which well 40 to load of the State, for intense activities of adaptation of the port of Piombino finalized, besides that to the throw again of the industrial area like complex industrial crisis area, also in anticipation of the reception and the successive dismantling and disposal of the wreck of the Costa Concordia. In fact, previously, with resolution of the Council of Ministers of 8 March 2013, the commissioner delegated, in agreement with the Minister of the environment and the Minister of infrastructures and the transports, was authorized to adopt all the necessary measures to allow the transport of the ship from Costa Concordia cruise near the port of Piombino for the dismantling, utilizing resources already allocated and actually available. Finally, Decree-Law No. 73 of May 12, converted into law by Act No. 1469, to article 3-a, added by the rapporteurs on the indication of the Government, extended the role and functions of the commissioner in line with the acts undertaken. It appears, therefore, out of all logic the behavior of the head of the civil protection Franco Gabrielli, that has convened a conference of the services on the disposal of the Costa Concordia, previewed for the next 25 june, excluding a priori the port of Piombino and including that of Genoa. It comes the suspicion that the commissioner has acted - or the Government has made action the commissioner - in the prevailing interest of the Carnival company, that it wants to bring the wreck to Genoa, while it is still in force a decree of the Italian Government that previews the disposal in the port of Piombino. We remain convinced that the best choice is always the Tuscan port, while we remain the suspicion that the wreck is brought to Genoa only to be then transported and dismantled elsewhere. In this sense, precisely in order to avoid reasonable doubts and legitimate suspicions, we allow ourselves to raise awareness of the Presidency in order to make demands on the Government to come and report in the relevant parliamentary fora on the real state of the art and on the real intentions, the consequences and determinations it intends to assume and make assume. We believe that Parliament should be informed of this matter, possibly not of any action taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-265.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 19 June 2014, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.44.
