ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, I invite you to hurry to pick up the cards. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Buccarella.]] The senators and senators present in this House are entitled to choose how to be present. I call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I would like to address one last reminder to hasten you. Montevecchi (M5S). But what way is that, Madam President? You should lock the doors! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate has a quorum. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u8	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u10	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, the Council of Ministers has instructed Minister Boschi to put the question of trust in jobs act, which we have read from press notes and agencies. What I want to point out here today to the Ministers present, to the Undersecretaries and to the Government is that we believe that this choice is not appropriate to the tasks that this House should and could carry out with regard to a serious discussion of the measure in question. I say to Minister Poletti: Minister, we have not quite understood the order of the problems that causes the government and the President of the Council Renzi to be in such a devastating hurry to close a debate that could be so complicated, but also leading to important changes to the delegation of work. If it were, as some people overlook, for the need for the President-in-Office of the Council to arrive at the Brussels meeting with an approved delegation, I, together with my Group, not only could I not help but also regret it, but above all I could not avoid strongly deprecating the use of trust also on the delegation of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If this suspicion were unfounded and if, as others have also mentioned, the Government made it clear that it was difficult to deal with the large number of amendments that the minority forces in this Senate have tabled, I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement Group proposes to the Renzi Government to delete a large part of its amendments, to maintain only a limited number of them (those we believe to be essential) so as not to give an alibi to the Presidency of the Council and the Council of Ministers all to put trust in the delegation of work. This invitation I would also address as a possibility to the other opposition forces: we remove any alibi to the Renzi Government, we make sure that Renzi, if he wants to put trust in such an important measure, do so before the country without having any alleged alibi. We, as a parliamentary group, do not want to give him any. We have the opportunity to close the debate seriously here in the Senate and then pass the provision to the House's examination. Let Mr Boschi not, as they say, come tomorrow to put yet another confidence in this House, taking away its representativeness before the time comes, taking away from us senators the possibility of modifying, as far as possible, such a delegation that we cannot do more in white. We are opposed to much of the scaffolding of this measure, but we could come up with some issues in very few amendments that the Government should seriously consider. I would therefore like to address the President of the Council and the Government, represented here by the Minister, to the invitation not to put the question of trust and not to hide behind unnecessary pretexts. Let's move on. I also invite the other opposition forces to follow the 5 Star Movement on this line. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u13	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, of course we will take into account President Petrocelli's invitation. Madam President, I would like to address the whole House and the Presidency to talk about the regularity of our sittings. I would not have been surprised if there had been no quorum at this time, because we continue to repeat something that is absolutely impossible to support, namely the request to senators to be present several times at the same time as the Senate and the House. We cannot continue to hold sessions in the Senate while a sitting of Parliament is being held in the Chamber, with a majority in common. At the moment, it is clear that we are being convened for the sitting of Parliament in a joint sitting, even though the sitting in the Chamber is being suspended. There have been openings and closings in this House on several occasions, with senators who were still present in the Senate. I think there is a very serious problem of regularity, because I might also be interested in waiting for the results of the votes this morning, not being that sitting closed but only suspended, and being present at this time in the Chamber. I therefore ask you, Madam President, on the basis of what interpretation you - not as a natural person, but as a Presidency - continue to check the quorum of this House at the time when the senators are in the Chamber for a sitting of Parliament in a joint sitting. I believe that the Presidency owes us an answer because, I apologise to my fellow Members, although I do not want to be quirky, I think it is impossible to continue this way for the fifth or sixth time. In this case, the sitting in the Chamber is suspended, but at other times we have opened and closed the session of the Senate Assembly while in the Chamber of Deputies it was being called. It is true that the rules have recently become sloppy, written more on sand than on stone, but this House should have a minimum of regularity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, to be honest, I find it a bit humiliating for all of us to have to discuss the decisions that the President of the Council of Ministers has taken, authorizing the application of the question of trust on the delegated measure in the field of work, only by intervening on the order of business at the beginning of the sitting. This is a matter that everyone is discussing, but we continue our work, and now we will continue the general discussion, as if the issue were not the fundamental element on which the Senate and individual senators should say theirs. Madam President, we have already withdrawn the amendments. We had tabled 350 amendments and today we decided, by letter to the Presidency, to withdraw 300 amendments to focus on what we believe to be fundamental. We want to remove all alibi from the President-in-Office of the Council, who has deliberately chosen, we believe with arrogance and perhaps also weakness, to put trust in the delegation in the field of work. Even from the constitutional point of view, President, remembering that the same precedents count on the fingers of one hand, putting trust in a draft delegation law is a rather questionable procedure. With the bill, does Parliament decide to delegate its legislative function, for one part, to the Government, and the Government that it does? It puts confidence in the delegation given to it by Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This is frankly unbearable on such a sensitive and important issue that it concerns the rights of millions of people, workers and workers. Our 50 amendments are precisely on the subject, they are a challenge; let us really confront ourselves in this House about who and how he wants to extend the rights and not do it on the contrary, because this is already a blank delegation with principles and objectives that are frankly very sloppy. I would like to know from the Government what is preventing us from seriously discussing a few dozen amendments in this House. [[Applause from Senators De Cristofaro and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u19	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, unfortunately, we are all obliged to follow not only the work of this House, but also the agencies, because at times we have been informed of what is happening more with alien and external news than with internal communications. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] However, we can deal with this. President Renzi has announced that he will put his trust. I have already made a general speech, but there are so many Members who have spoken and who still have to speak: what do they have to talk about at this point if the original text no longer exists and no one knows about the new text? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] It would be good if the Government presented its variants to the original text and proposed at least to develop a debate on it. I can imagine the frustration of each of us who must intervene knowing that he speaks to the wind of things that probably no longer exist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] If we want to make fleas too, even if we are going to deal with this debate when the government puts its trust in it, I can say that it appears aberrant for one who has at least dealt with the constitutional right to know that in the separation of powers the legislative is incardinated on the Chambers and the Executive does other things. The Commission has the right to regulate under conditions of indefensibility and urgency, by a decree-law, or by delegation of Parliament, which establishes times and limits within which the Government can exercise a legislative function, improper because otherwise, without delegation, it could not exercise it. We find it abhorrent that the delegate puts to us the conditions of delegation which he himself will then have to exercise. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] It is an aberration from the constitutional point of view and it is an issue that we will address when the government raises the question of trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u20	For a procedural reason, I reply first to Senator Volpi: Parliament in joint sitting concluded the call and ballot phase, so there are no obstacles to the continuation of the Senate's proceedings. To Senators Petrocelli, De Petris and Divina I want to say that the Presidency has not received any communication from the Government about the imposition of the question of trust. Therefore, in the absence of a request from the Government to take the floor, the Presidency is required to proceed in accordance with the order of business. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's a farce!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u21	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1428, 24, 103, 165, 180, 183, 199, 203, 219, 263, 349, 482, 500, 555, 571, 625, 716, 727, 893, 936, 1100, 1152, 1221, 1279, 1312 and 1409.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u22	Madam President, I do not hide the embarrassment of speaking in a general debate when the framework for government decisions is not yet defined. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Nevertheless, as we are talking about the possibility of proposals being collected by the Government even if it put the trust and since the path of delegation is certainly still long because the provision must pass also in the other House, I do not intend to give up the opportunity given. I believe that it is important to highlight a number of issues, in the spirit that has characterized the commitment of many senators throughout the process of drafting, debating and discussing this delegation in Parliament, and therefore I do not want to give up making some comments and making some suggestions on what I think remains a very important delegation. The project that is proposed to us is in fact broad and ambitious. The crucial point is surely to get to build a support network for people who lose their jobs or who must for the first time enter the world of work: a network that takes into account both what we call active policies, that is, employment centres, and what we call passive policies, that is, social shock absorbers. In my opinion, the construction of this network is so important that I think it is important for the Government to pay attention to the fact that it must be built first, that is, a priority must be defined in the various fields in which the intervention is structured, so that we can take action on the revision of contracts or on other issues, such as simplification, which are also provided for by the delegation, only when it is certain that this network has begun. This does not only mean - and it is very important - that resources (not immediately adequate to 100%, but nevertheless significant) are identified for the construction of this network, but that the legislative decrees relating to Articles 1 and 2 are issued before those relating in particular to Article 4. The network of support that is illustrated, on which the delegation is exercised, is of insurance type. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u23	I would ask the House, with all due respect, to allow those who have asked to speak to speak in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u24	Mr Warra (PD). I said that the support network envisaged in the delegation is of an insurance type, i.e. largely supported by contributions from employers and workers. I think it is very important to move the delegation in which we also refer to a further pillar, i.e. assistance, when the Social Employment Insurance (ASPI), or what it will be, ends, because of course it has a duration. I believe that there is scope for further discussion of this issue, also with a view to relaunching policies to combat poverty, which were recently also called for in a special hearing by Minister Poletti. Another important aspect of the delegation is the measures for women's employment with regard to conciliation. We know that the issue of conciliation is crucial, because about 30% of mothers under 65 had to stop working for family reasons: half of them were the birth of their children. Therefore, addressing the issue of conciliation, kindergartens and the protection of motherhood is certainly an important point that I believe in the process of delegation can be further strengthened. On the other hand, I find myself in a bit of difficulty on the issues dealt with in Article 4; in particular, I believe that the delegation is timid on some crucial aspects that must definitely be strengthened. The first concerns the desire to arrange for the overcoming of forms of work which do not find valid reasons in terms of organization and productivity. In the current wording, the delegation on this point is very timid, because it speaks of simplification, of possible interventions. I believe that this issue is of absolute importance precisely because we have seen that these forms of work do not already favour flexibility, which is desirable, as well as precariousness. I therefore welcome the idea, which for now has only been expressed in public statements and has not been translated into amending acts, of overcoming some of these forms, and I am referring to co.co.pro. I would also like to stress, precisely with regard to project collaborations, that this is a form that has been very reduced once the control and limitation measures have been adopted, following the Fornero law. Therefore, the issue of abuse is also rightly to be borne in mind when defining intervention on these forms of work not at full-time. As much as this topic is recalled, one of the things that worries me is the one related to vouchers. At present, the delegation provides for the possibility of extending, with few limitations, the vouchers, which goes mainly through the raising of the roofs currently placed with regard to both the worker and the employers. I think that the current ceiling of EUR 5,000, which is practically similar to that of the German mini-jobs, should not be abandoned at all, unless we want this form of work, which has its own logic in occasional, temporary work, instead to be able to cannibalise more structured forms of work, such as part-time work - the real one - and seasonal work, which are quite different in terms of safeguards that guarantee workers both from the point of view of social security and precisely in the face of job losses. It cannot be said that this limitation creates an obstacle in the field of services to the person - you sometimes hear about the caregivers, the colfs, the babysitters - because at the present time there is no difficulty for the employer to hire these figures on a fixed and indeterminate time, which can also be one hour per month or two hours per week, managed in complete flexibility. It is therefore a topic, that of vouchers, on which I strongly call the attention and sensitivity of the Government. In the same way and in this connection, I maintain that the delegation is timid in placing work without a time limit at the centre of its action, that work which gives stability to the employment relationship, which allows the employer and the worker to invest in a common activity. We must accept the statement that Minister Poletti has done so many times and that I share: this work must have lower costs both tax and contributory and in terms of other types of charges than others. In fact, we see a stop in the possibility of transforming fixed-term work into permanent work. The latest data from the CNEL labour market report confirm that the transition from fixed-term to permanent is very hypothetical: almost 58 percent of those who remain in indeterminate forms once these are over; about 21 percent are those who leave fixed-term forms of work and then cannot access anything, i.e. remain inactive or unemployed. This is a matter of fundamental importance. The text of the delegation refers to a contract of increasing protection. However, it is not in any way declined what this actually means and how this contract relates to the other existing contracts. I do not hide because I know very well that the issue of increasing protection is linked to another very important debate, which has taken place over the last few days, which concerns the issue of protection against dismissals. I think this is a sensitive issue on which we must make absolutely clear, because the redundancies we are talking about, and in particular those protected by Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, have nothing to do with the flexibility that comes out of work. This is a mystification, because the protection, and in particular the protection of reintegration, is reserved exclusively, apart of course the discriminatory dismissals that no one can speak of because protected by the Constitution, as well as by international discipline, exclusively concerns those situations in which the motivation is not justified neither from the economic point of view nor from the disciplinary one. This is a principle that cannot be questioned except at the price of putting the worker's life in full availability of the employer's choices. [[Applause from the PDe Group of Senators Campanella and Bencini]] There are three principles that we are reminded of in the Charter, and I would like to remind you briefly. Firstly, the right of workers not to be fired for no valid reason must be guaranteed. Secondly, the right of workers made redundant for no good reason to seek redress must be safeguarded, and - care must be taken - it must be a remedy which acts as a deterrent to unlawful dismissal. It is wrong to say that Article 18 covers a few thousand workers because there are a few thousand workers who receive reintegration; the problem is what would happen if there were no Article 18! The number of workers covered by Article 18 is 7.5 million. This is a bit different. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] The third, crucial element, in my opinion, enshrined in the Nice Charter, is the right of workers to be able to challenge before a third body (which may be a judge, but not necessarily) the reasons by which the employer motivated dismissal, including those of an economic nature. All of us are sensitive to the need to reduce the number of workers when there is an economic need, but this is not being discussed here, as is the fact that this requirement exists and is motivated. It cannot be an indisputable decision of the employer because otherwise it would be too trivial for any kind of dismissal without just cause and for no right reason to end up being justified on economic grounds. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gatti.]] Now, it is precisely because of the need to give voice in the workplace also to workers, and not only to employers, without calling for conflicts, but indeed hoping for relations of common optimization, that I look with great perplexity at some aspects hypothesized in this bill of delegation to the Government that intervenes on the Workers' Statute. In particular, I have nothing against the possibility that jobs will be reviewed in a situation of crisis and company difficulties: what I am very concerned about is that, unlike what already provided for in the Workers' Statute, the delegation does not care to specify that everything must take place with attention to the wage level guaranteed to the employee and through the intercourse with the unions, obviously the most representative at the national level, in a negotiation with all the unions that can relate to the individual company and the specific situation. We cannot entrust such delicate choices to unilateral decisions, otherwise we really go back a few centuries in history by trampling on some right that is dear to us, that has been conquered forever; just as we care about fundamental human rights and the Constitution, which contains values that are not of yesterday and which are valid forever. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u25	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u26	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I should like to make a brief comment. This morning, four times the legal number has been missing, and since we are talking about labour reform, I think it is a shameful example of those who get up early every morning to go to work and stamp the card on time. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Moreover, the farce is continuing this afternoon because I have just read an ANSA statement from the Undersecretary Bellanova, which says that the maxi amendment is ready and is under consideration by the Accounting Office, so it means that the content is already there and we are here to discuss it empty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to examine a measure sold in the press as the solution to Italy's problems. Prime Minister Renzi and his government team continue to repeat that we must speed up with the approval of this bill because only in this way will the unemployment rate, which is at record levels, fall: companies will offer more work, young people will have a future employment and will no longer have to go abroad for necessity: blah blah blah, the usual promises. It is useful to remind you that according to the new ISTAT data, youth unemployment is 44.2%: a new negative record. To retrace a bit of history, just to refresh your memory, I remember that already in 2011 during my speech I had exposed a negative judgment of the North League regarding the Fornero law: we announced that it would be a disaster for workers and for the whole world of work. You have not even considered us and the result is that we have grandparents in factories and unemployed young people in bars. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Catalfo]] In addition to this, you have created a new category of desperate workers, which we know best by the name of "exodati", precisely by supporting and approving that notorious law that you have all voted for. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that we in the North League have collected over 500,000 signatures to hold a referendum that will allow us to abolish that law, because that is the will of the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Even today, as in 2011, we are here to point out that this great job reform - which you call jobs act - will be a major failure. Your jobs act is nothing more than the continuation of the line of Monti, Bersani, Letta, which only impoverished - or rather led to hunger - Italian citizens. In short, it will be yet another failure at the expense of the workers. President Renzi, a good schoolboy from Professor Merkel, wants to show how good he is to respect the ceiling of 3%; he wants to make reforms without investing a euro, indeed, with the game of wanting to put the TFR in the pay envelope, aims to cash out, deceiving the workers to increase their income, while they will be subject to further taxation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In a nutshell, he would like companies to be deprived of that little cash available to cash the tax at the end of the relationship, stealing years and years before that money that the workers are putting aside. In addition to that, companies would go even more in liquidity crisis, while your bankers would continue not to credit. Dear colleagues from the Government and dear President Renzi, you must put yourself in the head that, in order to reduce unemployment, we must create jobs, not reduce the rights of workers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] A foreign entrepreneur will never invest in Italy, first of all for the high level of taxation, then for the great and complicated bureaucracy and, thirdly, for the cost of energy. To act and solve these three fundamental problems for our economy we need resources, which can only be recovered by making cuts, cuts and cuts, but not to the virtuous Municipalities or to the health of virtuous Regions, but to the many baraccones of the State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Moreover, to create jobs, we need to create a market, we need to move the internal market, putting money in the pockets of citizens, with a reduction of taxes at a single rate that should not exceed 20%, and we also have to work a lot on export and protection of the Made in Italy brand. This government is proud to be represented in Europe by the foreign minister Mogherini, a woman who, in order to guarantee herself that chair of prestige in the European barracks, voted in favour of sanctions to Russia, marking the end of many companies in the agro-food sector that exported billions of euros to that country. In this regard, as a Venetian, I strongly associate myself with the thought of my doge Luca Zaia: Less illegal and more Russia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As a confirmation of your zero-cost reform, we remember that Decree-Law No. 34 and this bill have not allocated any resources for reducing labour costs, an indispensable step to relaunch employment. The cut of the tax wedge of 10 billion, which in the last winter Prime Minister Renzi proudly flaunted, translates into a cut of just 3%, while in order to make the companies more competitive the government would have to make a two-digit cut in percentage terms of at least 10%. We are tired of hearing that there are no resources available, since the Government - not content with having already foreseen an expenditure on illegal immigration, between direct and indirect costs, of more than 10 billion euros - has just allocated, with the so-called stadium decree, another 130 million euros to refinance Mare nostrum. Resources have been found for reliefs and decontributions for companies that hire ex-convicts, while for those who hire young people and honest people nothing. We will never tire of saying that it is companies that create jobs and not contractual types. Interventions such as fixed-term contracts for 36-months, referred to in Decree-Law No 34 of 2014, or the one brought by Article 4 of the measure under consideration today, which intends to introduce the so-called "contract for increasing protections" and the "minimum guaranteed wage" are likely to remain dead letter without a simultaneous intervention to reduce the tax and contribution pressure for companies. The only way to boost the economy, make our businesses competitive again and create new jobs is to reduce taxes on both the company and the worker, which will result in a higher net wage and less burden on companies. A reform of work that does not include measures of de-taxation and de-contribution is a mockery. By focusing labour market reform on the revision of Article 18 rather than on the reduction of the tax wedge, the Government shows that it is deaf to the demand of those who can create jobs, of those who could and would like to hire, but cannot because of the high level of taxation. These days we are witnessing a theatre between Renzi and the unions, which is irresponsible. While you fight, the unemployed live the drama of not knowing how to feed their children and entrepreneurs on how to pay workers and taxes. The problem of work is the main issue in this country; youth unemployment is over 44 percent and yet those who govern and those who should protect workers discuss Article 18 and do not think about abolishing the Fornero law that you voted for. We do not consider this measure a solution to the employment problem because we do not believe in the much praised contract for increasing protections, which is already foreshadowed as a further stiffening of the labour market, in contrast to the need for flexibility, felt by employers and wanted by workers. It is not clear, moreover, how the Government intends to coordinate the new type of contract with the time contract at 36 months. Why should companies immediately activate a contract of increasing protection when they could resort to the fixed-term contract, which less harnesses the employer and in fact costs him less? We also have doubts and doubts about the content of Article 2, containing the delegation to the Government in the field of work services and active policies. A new structure, the National Employment Agency, is planned to be set up, without any provision being made for the former employment offices to be set up. It must be remembered that in some territorial situations employment centres work, but in most cases they are the emblem of public carriages, inefficient and expensive. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to delete them. We have serious doubts about the content of Article 1 on the revision of social shock absorbers, which envisages the introduction of a single institution, Naspi, but does not clarify how it will be financed. Our concern is that the burden will be borne by companies, on which the cost of the whole shock absorber reform will be discharged with the inevitable consequence of worsening their persistent state of crisis. While appreciating the opening of the Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it on our amendment on so-called solidarity holidays, we find critical also in Article 5 of the measure on delegation to the Government for the revision of measures to protect parenthood and conciliation of the times of life and work. In particular, we suspect that the harmonization of the system of deductions for the dependent spouse is a euphemism, not to mention openly abolition, which would result in a financial breakdown for the families of single-income workers and pensioners. In order to remove these doubts, which are also the doubts of our people, our workers, our businesses and our families, we had tabled a number of improved amendments to the text, but once again we talk about trust, once again we will skip the dialogue and confrontation with this House. If this is democracy... [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u27	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u28	Madam President, Minister, Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, delegation law is a very important instrument: with it Parliament gives the government its most important power: legislative power. It is important, therefore, to ensure that this is done with the certainty that the Commission diligently respects the criteria it has given. It is therefore all the more important that these criteria are clear and precisely identifiable. We are well aware that details are fundamental in labour legislation, and we know even more how little time this Parliament spends examining measures of truly parliamentary origin, because of the abuse of the urgent decree. It is clear that if Parliament wants to resist the continuing erosion of its prerogatives, it must at least commit itself to making the mandate clear. It is well known that new jobs are not created by changing the rules, but by investing resources and relaunching consumption. In the Renzi plan there are no investments or new resources to create jobs because, from the implementation of the delegations brought by this law must not derive new or greater burdens on public finance. The bill No. 1428 is of a total generic nature. It is not known whether social shock absorbers increase or decrease in government intentions; whether the protections of the relationship increase or decrease; whether precarious contractual figures increase or decrease. We come to the permanent contract with increasing safeguards, which has been incorporated by the Government with an amendment to Article 4 as a criterion for the reordering of the discipline of employment relationships and contractual forms. Firstly, it should be pointed out that the text does not specify in any way what types of protection we are referring to, or how they will vary in relation to service seniority. Secondly, the problem of unjustified and abnormal quantities of contractual typologies is not even remotely resolved. A real jungle that workers and employers are facing, with the results that we can all sadly see. It is said that this reform should be at zero cost, but in order to make it truly attractive for the employer to choose the contract indefinitely, instead of temporary contracts which still represent a long trial period, tax incentives should be very high. This reform could, on the contrary, be very costly. And here is the problem of coordination and what the Government is preparing to do with what it has already done. In May the Government carried out a sort of liberalization of fixed-term contracts which can be renewed up to five times over three years. The risk is to produce a renewed B-series labour market, since the worker may have to access the new contract to increasing safeguards, having to wait still for full and recognized protection, after having already worked for three years in the same place of work with precarious contracts. This is the problem of turnover: it is not clear whether this type of contract refers only to workers who first enter the world of work or, in general, to new recruits. What happens if a worker who enjoys all the protection passes to another company? If you are hired with a growing protection contract, you will decide not to move. Then it is clear that, if you really want to introduce this type of contract, with a view to fair treatment, it will be necessary to make it less easy for the employer to use fixed-term contracts extended several times, allowing them only under specific conditions, such as seasonal jobs, and eliminate all other types of precarious contracts. At this point I wanted to refer to the Youth Guarantee plan that is directly linked to the issue of investment in our country on the needs of work and their reorganization, which is fundamental for a plan that is the only job opportunity on which Europe and Italy have invested huge resources for the next two years. It seems difficult that with the delegation still in Parliament it is possible to reform the agencies before the end of the so-called Youth Guarantee, which started as early as 1 May, which, despite the announcements of the Ministry of Labour, risks being a failure. From a note from the Ministry of 19 September, I extract in summary: 1) registered as Youth Guarantee: 201,001 young people; 2) Job opportunities published by companies: 13.197, for a total of 19.073; 3) of the 19.073 places available: 71.9 per cent of employment opportunities are concentrated in the North, 14.7 per cent in the Centre and 13.3 per cent in the South. However, there are problems that have been reported by a study and monitoring conducted by Adapt. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u29	Excuse me, Senator, but I understand how hard you're doing. I'd ask you to keep your voice down, both who you're calling and who you're talking to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u30	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). According to Adapt, employment opportunities, independently counted on the Youth Guarantee website, were, on September 8, 3,600, a quarter compared to those actually announced by the Ministry of Labour. No official explanation for this sharp deviation. The high profiles are only 448, compared to 1,469 average profiles and 1,687 low profiles. A merciless mirror of the poor quality of the profiles sought. On the other hand, 20 percent of young candidates received a degree and 56 percent graduated. Worse still, with a spectacular contradiction to the same goals of the Youth Guarantee, born to include in the world of work people without experience, many announcements ask for previous experience in the field of work, in some cases even ten years. It is important to tell an example of the medium failure, taken from the website "Republic of Interns": See what it proposes under the Youth Guarantee programme, Synergie Italia Agency for Work: 14 catering operators for the multinational chain of fast food, training for 30/35 hours per week at 3 euro per hour. This is scandalous (...) not only because it does not offer a job but an internship, and because the attendance allowance - EUR 3 per hour - defined as a scholarship is only expected to reach 100% of the hours scheduled for the internship (let it be assumed that, if caught by influence for a week, the intern could lose the compensation of all the other months)... It is even more scandalous that the allowance for these months of internship, to learn to beat receipts and to shoot burgers on the plate will not be paid by the fast food chain that will benefit from the presence of the 14 interns, but with public money. We can therefore add a few words on free work: between internships, traineeships, etc., there is now also a world of parallel, unpaid work, especially intellectual work, in which the worker has lost all semblance of contractual power. This is in a way in which, if someone offers you a job, you have to be so grateful that you can work for free! [[Applause from the Mixed ILC and M5S Groups]] Ultimately, what the Government proposes - if it proposes it - is a framework, but it is not given to know what will be the design that will form the framework. I hope that the drawing is there and is not just media or even worse a dead nature. Never before is it necessary to question the role of the State in the economy. This is because in almost all the countries of the world we are witnessing an imposing retreat of the state, justified with the need to reduce the debt and (perhaps in a more systematic way) with the need to make the economy more dynamic, competitive and innovative. The private enterprise is seen by all as an innovative force, while the state is marked as an inertial force, indispensable for the basic things, but too big and heavy to act as a dynamic engine. It is true that innovation is not the main function of the state, but to illustrate its potential for innovation and dynamism and its historical ability to play an entrepreneurial role in society is certainly the most effective way to defend its existence and its importance. In all the most radical and revolutionary innovations that have fueled the dynamism of the capitalist economy, from the railways to the network, up to the nanotechnologies and pharmaceutical of our day, the most courageous, early and expensive entrepreneurial investments are attributable to the state. This implies a very high level of uncertainty and it was the invisible hand of the State that gave rise to these innovations, which would not have been there if we had had to wait for the business market. To face many of these challenges, there was a need for vision skills, a mission and, above all, confidence on the part of the State in its role in the economy. Today visionary investments are made in countries such as Brazil and China, by public investment banks with a very ambitious vision, which do not only provide credit in an anti-cyclical function, but direct it towards new and uncertain sectors, where private banks and venture capitalists hesitate to venture. Why am I saying this? In a boom period, most companies and banks prefer to finance small low-risk innovations and wait for the state to make important progress in more radical areas. Like all technological revolutions, however, green technologies also need a bold government, which takes on a leading role, as it has been for the Internet, for biotechnology and nanotechnologies: all this, however, in the delegated law under consideration, I do not see it. This creates stimulating debates on how much the state can do to increase what are called the animal spirits of private companies, to induce them to stop accumulating liquidity and start spending it in new and innovative areas. A secure government of its own means knows that companies can complain about too high taxes, but they go where there are new technological and market opportunities. These opportunities, in a clear majority of cases, are found in countries where the State invests significantly. Let me give you an example that applies to everyone: Pfizer recently left Sandwich, Kent, to move to Boston. Did he do it because there are fewer taxes and less regulation? No, dear Senators: you did it because in the US the national health institutions spend almost 30.9 billion dollars a year to finance the knowledge base on which private pharmaceutical companies thrive. Instead of analysing the active role of the State in correcting market failures, as emphasised by many progressive economists, it is necessary to build a theory of the role that the State plays in the creation of markets, aware that the market has been heavily influenced from the outset by the State's actions. With innovation, the state is not limited to encouraging investment by companies, but it is dynamic, creating vision, mission and plan. What I therefore ask of this Government is that from Leviathan bureaucratic and inert becomes a catalyst for new commercial investments and that it goes from repairer of the market to modeler and creator of markets, therefore of work, from passive entity, that it only raises from the risk the private sector, to active subject, that it welcomes to a good degree the risk and takes charge of it, in consideration of the opportunities of growth that it offers against all the expectations. We must all have the vision of a state that does not eliminate the risk, as if it had a magic wand, but that takes on it, shaping and creating new markets. We cannot hope to face the structural challenges of the 21st century and to produce that technical and organisational progress that is indispensable for fair and sustainable growth in the long term, without a more complete vision of the centrality of the public sector, in the assumption of risk and in the promotion of radical technological change, fundamental elements for promoting growth and development. Therefore, the state must be the main protagonist of what is often called the knowledge economy, i.e. an economy driven by technical progress and the production and dissemination of knowledge. Once we do this, we can start to formulate effective policies instead of reproducing stereotypes and images that only serve ideological purposes. That was all I wanted to say before I knew, last night, that there would again be confidence in this delegation law (which was confirmed this morning and that we still pretend not to know). This will make all our attempts to improve it with simple words in the wind, including those that I, unfortunately, think I have said now. The government decides and parliamentarians are reduced to simple speakers, philosophers from Athenian agora when they have things to say, otherwise to stadium screamers when they only have to show that there are and that they are hard and pure. What does this lead to? Does our society benefit from such a small political class? Eventually someone decides which button we have to press and as good soldiers we execute the order. The fault or the merit will be of our general and we will have a clear conscience. Are we here to perform critically the order received? Or did we take this burden to bring ideas, share knowledge and find solutions with side thoughts? I think this is our first duty. Perhaps that is why I am in the mixed group, even though I have gone against my will. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u31	I communicate that Parliament is convened at 11 a.m. on Tuesday 14 October for votes on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and one member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today we are dealing with a decisive hairpin of the legislature, a section of activity that marks the way and depth of meaning with which this Parliamentary group can speak to Italians and Italians. Among them, Laura: 32 years old, master's degree, ten years of experience, single. Laura works for seven euros per hour for a cooperative in some municipalities. He does a very delicate job; he works from September to June, July and August without pay, no TFR, no illness, no vacation. To survive, he has to integrate the miserable pay by doing other jobs, including spending the night in a community once a week. His situation is normal for those who work for cooperatives. Then there is Federico: 24 years old, a diploma and many other specialization courses. To look for a job any accept the position of apprentice and work eleven hours a day, but gets paid for eight. In fact, training does not do it; it is self-employed at work, but rather than being at home would adapt to doing anything and then, if it claimed its rights, the next day it would be out of work. His situation is normal. Linda, Marco and Luisa work as shop clerks in shopping malls. All three of them are graduates, but they didn't say so on their resumes, because otherwise they wouldn't have hired them. They work on two shifts, seven days out of seven. They can't take vacation, otherwise at home. Construction today is in crisis and the corporals who collect not non-EU citizens, but the unemployed Italian masons, have reappeared. All in black: you just have to check the construction sites. Giovanni, with others, works in a supermarket where they work 50 hours a week, but are paid for 40. John asked for overtime; the next day he was at home. There are working cooperatives run by the 'ndrangheta, which treat workers as slaves. There are slaves in agriculture, both in the mantua, in the agro pontoon, in the table and in Calabria. Not to mention the young people who work practically for free. Here, to all these workers, young and old, we risk taking away not only sacred rights, but also dignity: they will be the future poor, many with a master's degree in their pockets. My father was an Alfa Romeo worker and he did hundreds of hours of strike in the 1960s to claim workers' rights and to build a more just society, for those like him and for future generations. I remember perfectly those times: the money that was missing in his paycheck didn't allow us to throw the end of the month and I can never forget that. His struggles and those of thousands of workers like him came true with the approval of the Workers' Statute. I will not help destroy what has cost them sacrifices, tears and blood. It is neither ideology nor nostalgia: it is the flesh of people. Today the reform of labour should serve to eliminate the precariousness and to extend the rights to all; therefore it is indispensable to eliminate most of these contracts "shame", the false VAT departures, including the contract at the end of the Poletti decree. One of our amendments goes in this direction. Do we want to extend the ordinary and extraordinary integration fund to all workers? Well, the cost is zero for the State, because the contribution to the Integration Fund is borne by the employer and the workers. Just make everyone pay for it and we've solved the problem. Predict him in the proxy! With regard to tasks, it is a principle of civilization of work that the employer progresses gradually, in terms of responsibilities, duties and salary. A worker who knew that he would have to do the same job all his life without ever moving forward in the organizational context of the enterprise would be a person whose legitimate expectations are conculcated and for whom the so-called social elevator is firm. For this reason, the Workers' Statute amended the Civil Code (Article 2103) and prohibited the so-called demise, which consists in dedicating the provider to tasks lower than those agreed upon or to the higher ones to which he subsequently devoted himself, decreasing his professionalism. No one denies that there can be moments of particular productive and organizational tension that impose greater flexibility, nor that the working processes often today can contemplate a spectrum of tasks that space from merely manual operations to works of greater conceptual content and that this spectrum can be included in a task. However, the content of work is subject to negotiation and very significant levels of flexibility have already been achieved in Italy. Therefore, if action is to be taken by law on the subject, the possibility of changing jobs for the worse must be anchored only to processes of reorganization and restructuring due to proven economic difficulties of the company. And we come to Article 18. And here I address my colleague, Mr Sacconi, who has been in Parliament since 1979 and who has been preaching to us about modernity and renewal but has been saying the same things on the right for 35 years: the truth must be established. Reintegration is a remedy for an illegal fact. It provides for a sanction if the contents of the work regulation are violated. There is no point in laying down rules if the final guarantee disappears. The employer would always have the weapon of dismissal, even illegitimate, in order to silence any worker who might assert his right. I repeat: Article 18 is a remedy for violation of rules, whatever they may be. Its abolition makes no logical or legal sense. To abolish Article 18 is to legalize the crime of theft or robbery: it is completely useless to regulate property or possession of property if the person who commits a theft gets away with it by law. To remain in the metaphor of the theft: the thief who, by law, has to return the steal, cannot manage with compensation and keeps it. If an artifact is built in an archaeological or seismic area, the building abuse must be reduced. Thus the so-called restitutio in integrum is the normal form of reparation of an unlawful fact. Then there are four unbearable arguments. The first is that for which there is disparity between those who are guaranteed because Article 18 applies to them and those who - in the vast majority - do not have that guarantee. The solution, of course, is to extend the protection to those who do not have it, not to take it away from it. The second is that compensation is sufficient for illegal acts. This is not the case: reintegration into the workplace is the most effective and is the most consistent with Article 1 of the Constitution. Monetization can be chosen by the worker, but cannot be imposed, also because execution on the assets of the enterprise can prove unsuccessful if it has capital abroad, as often happens. The third argument is that with universal protection for involuntary unemployment, a sort of compensation for the loss of work for all, the problem of reintegration would be overcome. It is not true at all: one thing is economic cycles that lead to the crisis of the company and to involuntary unemployment; another is illegal dismissal. The fourth argument is that Article 18 would cover only 0.001 percent of workers. But, if so, why is it crucial to abolish it? How does a rule that affects so few people be a brake on investment? I would also point out that the reduction in guarantees so far has not led to any increase in employment and that most entrepreneurs - including, for example, Prada and General Electric - do not say that Article 18 is their main problem. How false it is to say that foreign investment does not come because Article 18 exists. Just read the statements of the CEO of General Electric, De Poli, who in Italy makes 11,000 employees and who bought the Avio. I call that an investment. Foreign investment does not come because corruption in Italy has polluted the healthy economy in favour of the criminal economy [[Applause from Senators Barozzino and Buccarella]] in unbearable terms and free competition is altered. Investment doesn't come because the civil process has absurd times. We do not invest in Italy or, better, in some parts of Italy, because the mafias have replaced the State. Investment does not come because in Italy those who forge budgets are not punished, but rewarded [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] and, therefore, there is no free competition. And then perhaps it is necessary to quickly approve the crime of fake in the budget, the real one, not the one included in the bill of Orlando; approve the crime of autocycling and approve the interruption of the prescription after the sentence of first degree. An entrepreneur needs legal certainty, something unknown in Italy. Article 18 is just a fake problem. It serves to mask our inability to make the real decisions, those that the stone guest, Silvio Berlusconi, will never allow us to make. Work isn't just any bargaining chip. We are talking about people who have desperate needs: especially that of being able to build a future and free themselves from hunger pay when they have it. Let us not be conditioned by the right, who has made the crisis of these years, transforming the foundation of our country from work to precariousness. On the right you have to look to greet her, say goodbye and stay away from her, not to hug her. Let us fight the constraints imposed by strong consorteries and not remove the protection for the weak. Let us have the courage of reality, of true stories, of the eyes of our young people, of those who feel more and more outside and who are held there by those who are increasingly inside. Today Matteo Renzi reiterated that dissent can lead to a vote in the party, but it cannot be a veto. But my dissent is true and the debate cannot be devoid of content, empty, there must be life and to understand the terms of it must not take a vate. This reform must give jobs to the unemployed, not just to multinationals. I therefore urge all my colleagues to vote consistently and not blindly. The decision to put the question of trust on an amendment by the Government is in context. Some say that this is a sign of weakness. Personally, I cannot say; but I do feel that there is a lack of discussion about content, experiences and people. The vote of confidence shifts the subject of the vote, not only in the technical-procedural sense, but in this case, as rarely in others, it shifts it in a political key and diverts attention from the merit of the problems, reduces silence to the dissensions of these days. I will wait to see the text on which confidence will be placed and I hope to see that progress has been made so that I can renew my confidence in the Government I support. I say, however, that my opposition to the wrong rules of jobs act is not over, ladies and gentlemen; my dissent does not last 24 hours and then expires in order to vanish into a misunderstanding sense of responsibility. I owe responsibility and credibility to those who are precarious, unemployed, exodus, discriminated against workers and women who are laid off in pregnancy. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] We'll see about that. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u35	Madam President, we are addressing this issue in a climate that is even euphemistic to define surreal, and we must certainly start with what happened this morning. The absence of a quorum four times in this House appears at least to be a lack of respect for those workers who then want to force new rules. Here the government comes to modify norms that concern people who go to the factory and stamp the card every day and productive activities with entrepreneurs who go from morning to evening to look for work; however who should come here to do their duty as elected by the citizens misses in their task, is absent. This is an absence of the majority, of a guilty absence, an absence that makes exactly the pair, on the contrary, with what President Renzi instead wants the country to believe. In fact, we must talk about this and it is useless to hide it: it is a farce. We are now in general discussion without knowing the text of the maxi amendment on which trust will be placed and, as Senator Divine correctly said, the fact that trust is placed on a bill of delegation is at least surreal: it is a trust in trust. Once it would be called a blank card: give a blank card to the government and tell it to do what it wants. Today there are subtle forms of very democratic dictatorship. They pass through the press, through the information; they pass also through the delegitimization of the representative bodies. This is a path that the Government has begun starting from the Provinces, removing citizens the right to choose who is to administer their territories, and has continued it in an absolutely pervicacious way with the reform of this Senate that, if it goes into port, will prevent citizens from choosing who must come here to make the laws. All this responds, therefore, to a very simple design: you must not disturb the maneuverer. The operator must be free to act for his own use and consumption. Let us be clear (and in this case I address the senators of the PD who sit here): it is not the interest of the country what Renzi is doing, but it is a partisan interest, and not even a political part because of the PD, if you have not yet understood it, it does not give a damn! The only thing he's interested in is accumulating a personal consensus that can allow him to manage a fluid mass of good pleasure and votes regardless of your political side. You are called here today to ratify things that you have not even had the opportunity to discuss. This is the hypocrisy to which you bow, then going before the workers and entrepreneurs to say that you have respected them by keeping here the commitments you made in the election campaign? I want to see with which face, which maybe is a bit the same that distinguishes you right now. And I think of the workers who will lose their jobs in Malpensa, a reality I know coming from that province. The government gives assurances and Minister Lupi punctually, after a few months, obviously with the agreement of Renzi, to make the interest of the brave captains, Alitalia, Etihad and all the finances that are behind us, goes and suicide an airport hub on which the country has invested billions, then revealing the place of work hundreds of people, an entire territory and an entire section, the productive one of the North-West. Is this the government's consistency with reforms, with respect to economic recovery? On this I ask you to be consistent. Senator Ricchiuti said earlier that her dissent is certainly not fleeting. I hope so, because otherwise it would mean that the reeds are flitting in the wind. Here, instead, it is a question of being consistent with a popular mandate, not with the personal political line of those who, at this moment, have only the interest to make believe that they are making reforms - President Renzi - to make the country crash, in the spring, with a new electoral campaign, in the abyss. This is the lie that lies behind all this! Nothing about jobs act is about people's jobs. Right now, in the country, if there is a problem, that of creating jobs for businesses, not finding the easiest way to fire. This kind of policy does not appeal to us and we have said so in every way. It is incoherent and above all very hypocritical towards people to make believe that, with the treatment of the end of the relationship in paycheck, the problems of the economy can be solved. The government, if this is one of the content of the delegation (we are obviously talking about something we do not know, President), will simply make gambling on the shoulders of the citizens and will flatter them, as it did last year, with the 80 euros. At the time of the election campaign he will obviously ask for the profit (and what is this if not a vote of exchange, I wonder), then leaving, in the years to come, the same people who have deluded themselves to be able to have fresh instant resources without any social parachute, as the TFR had been built when its operation began. Well, Mr President, we cannot bend over this. There are hypocrisies in here that are hidden, and one I have seen in Terni in recent days. I was able to see what happened with regard to the Terni steel works, with the President-in-Office of the Council who, from the loggia of the blessings of Assisi (I don't know what his name is), gave advice on how he would even straighten out the twisted bones. It must be remembered, however, that, a few days earlier, a senator from Terni, Gianluca Rossi, had put a question to the Commission and the answer received by the Government was at least shameful, if not embarrassing, until he came to say nothing about the occupation of people, and I quote from its parts. The question put to the Commission was as follows: The Government is asked whether, within the framework of the Industrial Compact that the Italian Government will present, in December, to the European Council, it does not consider it necessary to make explicit reference to the strategicity of Terni Special Steels for the national economy. The answer that has been given is nothing. Words, words and words have been lined up and I remember the embarrassment of Senator Rossi, coming out of the Commission, saying that he was partially satisfied. That is the real hypocrisy. You are not representing your fellow citizens here today: you are simply here to ratify what the President of the Council of Ministers orders you to do, because you are afraid at the next election that you will not be re-elected! This is the great lie behind it! This is what you hide from yourselves! [[Applause from the M5 GroupsIf Misto-MovX and Senator Centinario]] Certainly the President of the Council of Ministers in his curriculum has many experiences in terms of production activities, but he is lucky because he obviously also enjoys excellent friends. He can get cover from the newspapers because, after a few days, no one remembers the ten companies of Renzi father anymore; no one remembers that castle in Matrioska, that enchanted castle he created by passing himself as an entrepreneur simply to bug the next. This today is the one who wants to do the job reform! This today is the one who wants to tell workers how to work and entrepreneurs how to do entrepreneurs, being the only employee of the family business for convenience! This is the consistency of the one who tells you what to do, and you are doing what he tells you, so with the same consistency: you are lying to your neighbor. I would like everything that President Renzi is preaching to come true, I want it for the future of the country, hoping that the economy of this country will be reborn starting from its abilities, but you cannot hide the lie when everything is simply aimed at the appearance, because, as it was for constitutional reform, nothing that is written today will have real effect on the country: there will be no more work after this job reform; there will be fluidity between jobs but there will not be one more. President Renzi will be able to go before the other European Heads of State - this time I hope not with an ice cream in his hand - and maybe take the satisfaction of saying: Well, I was able to do what they did not even in the 20 years! Nice satisfaction! Meanwhile the country plunges into the anguish of an economic recovery that does not arrive, because there are no investments that generate economy; you see only speculative investments that serve only to pay the interests of the public debt. I believe, Mr President, that, with regard to Article 18, what was staged was an excellent diversion; President Renzi must be heard: as he sells the pots, he can't sell them. That's great. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] At a time when there is an economic crisis that bites even harder, at a time when, since its government took office, the country has increased the public debt by 100 billion euros, at a time when everything it has predicted is based on a DEF that predicted a growth of +0.8 and we are currently in recession with -0.2 (with a dry percentage point of GDP less), he diverts attention to a debate exquisitely ideological with the union. A union that objectively now only represents itself. This is what is taking place today in the country and which fills the pages of the newspapers: not a debate that concerns jobs and how to make the economy resume; not a debate that leads us to reflect on having, in a supine way, accepted European policies that force Italy to suffer economic sanctions from Russia, that put our economic fabric further to a hard test; we do not have a debate on this: we talk about the ideology that distinguishes the currents of the PD, between the union, the PD maximalists, the minimalists of the PD, those who are on the right, those who are a bit more left, those who are above and those who are below. Well, in the face of all this, I say that President Renzi certainly deserves a round of applause because he is the best frying pan salesman on the market. Frying pans. President of the Senate, I believe that the thousand days we are given are very far from being the truth to which the government works. Here is the difference between the statesman, the foreman and the party leader. The statesman is also willing to accept a decline in consensus; he is also willing to accept that his personal consent is lacking in order to make reforms that then generate recovery and economic growth in the country. The head of the people, however, pursues the consent of little; he does not care about the future relapses; he immediately seeks the satisfaction from the most pushed propaganda. I leave it to you to tell which of the two figures I have just described can be traced Renzi. I do not think it is possible to assimilate it to the great figures who have distinguished the Italian politics of the twentieth century; he is certainly not a statesman. It will certainly be the secretary of the PD who, not believing in the PD, has brought it to 40%; it will certainly be the secretary of the PD who scraps it, breaking you together with that article 18 that for years you have defended as if it were the protection of a taboo of the left. Renzi is certainly not the statesman the country needs today, he is not the person who builds for the country: he is a skilled manipulator of consent, who finds himself followed in broad spaces of society, a follow-up, if we want, also very chic. It's a bit like who feels much more serious if the name of a law is in English: why not talk about law at work? Instead, we need to talk about jobs act, because it's more chic, it's more chic, it's more important, because it's more credible as an international message. This is what is distinguishing national politics today. That's what the government's doing: chasing a cheap consensus. I think there is a lot to think about, and I tell those who have been here for more years than I do; I tell those of us who know what the difference is between making politics and seeking the cheap consensus. It is very good the President of the Council when, taking Confindustria under arms, warns it: "Be careful that, if you don't do exactly what I say, it is likely that Poste Italiane and maybe even Finmeccanica will pull out of Confindustria, as my friend Marchionne did, and I want to see then how you will bear the expenses without having more the great inflows of the capitals of State, without even having more who pays you the so-called marchettas." Mr President, this is what is happening, this is the deception behind this way of making laws, presenting a delegation and calling for confidence in a delegation, without saying what is to be done, forcing Parliament to adopt a measure without knowing its contents. I am very concerned, and I take here the stimulus given a few days ago by the president of Confartigianato. If President Renzi wants to give an example, settle all the debts of the public administration, settle them all, without necessarily fixing the expiration of his saint. You want to put the TFR in your paycheck? Start with civil servants. Do it, advance it as well, if you have the resources to do it; do it if you know how to make a new law of stability without having an extra tax. We are serene, renzianaly speaking, because the law of stability will not bring any increase in taxes, everything will be postponed to next year and, when the country will no longer be able to meet its debt, we will simply end up in the hands of the troika, as has already happened for Greece. At that point the President of the Council will have concluded his fantastic work, will have delivered the country into the hands of speculative finance, putting into balance what will now remain of our companies. And here too there is another deception: enough with this matter to bring foreign capitals here! We must work to keep Italian capital here, to invest here and to make sure that we stay here to work, without forcing our companies, with absurd taxes, to go abroad, because this does not produce any economic advantage, but only speculation! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] When in fact the French come to invest in Italy, they do not do it because they believe in this territory and in this country, but because they see here an opportunity of speculation and, when the speculation is over, they will abandon our companies and our workers will lose their jobs as waste paper. But do you want to make a serious reflection on these aspects, which are the ones that should distinguish a serious policy that looks at economic recovery? No, you don't. Mr President, there is a simple, trivial proposal for a law that we have tabled, together with colleagues from other groups, which talks about banking separation, namely the distinction between commercial credit institutions, which take money from savers, and those who use this money instead to speculate. We are still here today to talk about how companies do not receive money from banks and do not deal with this simple and small piece. Why? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am not the director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), De Bortoli, who preaches on Freemasonry to President Renzi, but I am convinced that there are important interests, that he defends, that do not coincide with the interest of the country and that they persist in a speculative finance, that is the farthest there must be in the moment we are living. I say once again to PD: which left are you representing? You represent that speculative left? Be proud and consistent, if this is the degeneration you have arrived at! To my colleagues in the New Right Centre, I say: do you support these policies? Congratulations! What are you today? You're right? Are you left? Are you upstairs? Are you downstairs? You are servants: you are simply servants on the leash of the master who commands, the President of the Council of Ministers, who will decide your destiny according to the electoral law. That is what must be said and what lies behind the deception that we are living today! This is the trick that is being made against the citizens: it is made to believe that reforms are being made and instead it is simply mocking people. I hope that we will not end this experience of government by paraphrasing that phrase that Bill Clinton told George Bush in the election campaign: "Mister President, it's the politics, stupid". I don't translate it because I know that President Renzi is very familiar with English. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u37	Madam President, I take the floor to introduce the subject of sports work. I have tabled two amendments on this subject, which have unfortunately been declared inadmissible. However, I want to talk about this issue because I think it is too little known. One of these amendments would have allowed the ceiling for tax deductibility for sports sponsorship companies from EUR 250,000 to EUR 300,000, repealing the rule that allowed amateur sports associations, which operate under the 1991 Law No 398, to tax amounts for more than EUR 50,000. Therefore, the objective, at no cost to the cashiers, would have been to rationalise and simplify the system of tax discipline of sports associations by greatly simplifying the obligations. Think of what it might mean to say about sports work about the tax provisions for sports associations. The other amendment that I tabled was intended to raise the ceiling for annual tax-free fees for sports benefits from EUR 7,500 to EUR 8,200, thus making them equal to the income of paid employees exempt up to those amounts by virtue of the existing deduction. Above this threshold, considered that above these amounts can not be properly spoken of as volunteering, the discipline is divided between those who already have a main activity, with consequent social security and insurance coverage, so the compensations remain framed as occasional work and subject to the regular tax regime provided for such activity, and those who have no other occupation and for which the activity of sport has become the main one and is equated with the old co-ordinated and continuous collaborations, with consequent application of the relative tax, insurance and social security system. The obligations related to the sports relationship are then simplified. At this point I think it is appropriate to explain how work in sport is currently configured or, better, how it is not configured, becoming real and proper will. Article 1 of Law No 91 of 1981 divides Italian sport into two main categories: professional and amateur sport. You become professional sportsmen if the federation of belonging deliberates it. To date, only five sports federations (football, basketball, cycling, boxing and golf) have a professional sector. This means that only 10% of the sport (five out of 45 federations) considered the 1981 law to be satisfactory. It follows that in amateur sport we find united and governed by the same rules very different socio-economic realities: the tennis player who wins the Roland Garros in France, the great skier and the tennis players and skiers of the after-work, the volleyball team of series A and that of the parish. Yeah, that's right. To name names, the proceeds of athletes such as Federica Pellegrini and Flavia Pennetta, who do not need presentation and who do full-time sports, are governed by the same rules as those who compete and receive compensation in much lower categories and who, however, does sports only at the end of their main work, which already offers him (or should offer him) the guarantees that the Italian Constitution provides for all workers. In fact, it has not been realized that in the world of amateur sport there are now thousands of people who no longer perform such activity as a delight but as their specific professional choice of life. Thousands of students every year come out of their graduation courses in motor science (and I remember that this course was transformed into a full degree only a few years ago), but the reality is a long way behind this professional framework and these students are preparing to enter from graduates in a world of amateurs: just think of the whole world of fitness and wellness gyms. These people (as well as athletes, technicians, instructors, sports equipment workers, etc.) are now operating without any cover. There is no maternity protection. In the so-called private writings between athletes and sports associations there are the so-called anti-maternity clauses. I would like to mention the case of Adriana Pinto, who was a basketball player, the spearhead of a Faenza company as well as the beniamine of the local society. When she got pregnant, she was pointed out as a traitor to the city and the team, because that time she decided not to have an abortion. And I want to point out that Adriana Pinto's is not an isolated case. There is no social security cover, with the prospect that young workers in today's sports world will find themselves tomorrow without any kind of pension cover. I want to quote another anomaly at this point. Unfortunately there is another case to be mentioned: that of the professional cyclist in all respects, but amateur for the law, Marina Romoli. In 2010 she suffered a road accident in training and was paralyzed. Luckily, he didn't blame himself for the accident, so he'll at least have his pension for having suffered this accident. As far as accident insurance is concerned, however, it has no cover because it is an amateur for the law. Instead, he was doing his workout. I will then open the issue of protecting safety at work. Are we able to guarantee safety at work for sports athletes today? We must start talking about these issues. The amendments I have tabled seek to provide a response and protection to these needs, so that sport can be an effective opportunity for work and not just a precarious lack of protection for our young people, bearing in mind the specific nature of sport and the difficult economic moment that it is going through. Starting from these amending proposals (which I would like it to be possible to turn into agendas) it is in any case necessary to start in Parliament a path of study and sharing with the world of sport, its operators, trainers and practitioners on the subject of sports work, in order to draw clear lines of division between the various operators in sport, professionalism, amateurism and volunteering. To date, everything is in the same container. I would also like to take this opportunity to take stock of what I call the Far West of the requirements that give rise to action in the various areas of sport. For example, just remember the case of the so-called "qualification courses" that in a few months and often on payment of very high figures give the possibility of access to the sport profession with the same titles as those who have obtained a five-year degree in motor science. How can we protect the safety and training of our girls, for example, enrolled in a dance school, when it is possible for them to access improvised teachers, to all intents and purposes, without any recognized title and thanks to a simple certification course of a few months? The analogy between those who obtain a degree in motor sciences and those who attend a simple free course of qualification is to provoke further distortions in the sports system and serious damage to the workers. [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] Therefore, the need for specific attention to the subject of sports law and a reform of the legal system seems no longer to be deferred. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Puglia and Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u38	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first consideration we have to make is what the general debate is about: if we are to carry it out on the text discussed in the Committees on the merits and in the Budget Committee, it is one thing; if instead we are to do it on the ghost of the maxi amendment that is possible and on which confidence will be required, this risks being a debate on a mysterious content. And since we are senators and not Merlin Wizards, to point out or attempt to make a reasoning on how to improve the law text is almost useless. But it is worth making a reflection that is political, but also institutional, of respect for the institutional system, the democratic Constitution and how it has been and is organized the installation of powers in this country, on the systematic recourse (there are data and therefore it is useless that I repeat them: there are dozens and dozens in these years) to decree-laws, almost always spoiled of unconstitutionality, not presenting the minimum requirements of necessity and urgency. Much of the laws-laws are also spoiled for inconstitutionality: this is an example. The draft law before us does not have an area or a defined time: it is a kind of white paper given to the Government on a matter, among other things, confused in the way in which it was expressed, in a text examined, but which will be replaced by a new text. Unconstitutionality doubles, but as the constitutionality of a measure is checked by Parliament, and it is done by political majorities, the technical function of evaluation is put at the corner and we all assume the responsibility of saying that the violation of laws starts from the head. The example we give the citizen is that laws can be violated: just have the strength to do so. This is the most worrying fact of these and other events, but it is not enough: the question of trust, which must be given as a closed box, is also proposed on a text which will not be discussed, examined or evaluated, and on the basis of which legislative and administrative measures will be taken, to say the least, by the whole TIR. What simplification of the system? They will run away all the businesses and those poor fools who still want to invest because it gets complicated, it doesn't simplify. All governments of broad understanding have done so. Some 700 of the 1,200 administrative measures resulting from legislative measures have been adopted in the last three years. We are invaded by confused and contradictory norms, which we systematically correct, in an anxiety producing norms that all derive from the rooms of the highest bureaucracies and from the Government, with very serious damage to the economy, to the workers and to the country. It is such an inability not to be tolerated: those who are dealing with this matter have also dealt with the law of delegation in the field of work, the so-called "law-30." The effects are clear: unemployment rates are very high, the working population is contracting and youth unemployment is very heavy, among other things it is distorted in the way it is proposed in the debate. Above all, however, there are many adult workers, fathers of families, thrown on the street, because the economic crisis worsens. And it is not aggravated by the absence of simplification rules; indeed, we have done so much as complicated things; we have produced about fifty different contracts; we have developed an absolute precariousness of the living condition not only of the workers, but also of the enterprise; we have rewarded the income and speculation, but we have punished the production, the work of men and women who still have the taste of the risk and their ability to put in the field also their riches and their substances, while we reward those who run away from the country to do their interests, damaging the economy of all. This is the philosophy of the measure under consideration. Let us not be confused by the fogs: this is a great smoke, which hides the usual, identical roast. There are some who, greedy, must earn the impossible from the devastation of others. There is a line to be drawn between those who are suffering, the multitude of this country, and those who are enjoying, very few compared to the great mass of the Italian population (the big rich, the big investors, the credit institutions and those who control them). Everything else is smoke, while you keep saying: 'Ah, unemployment! Justice, we want justice, we are full of young unemployed people! Madam President, ISTAT data relate to young people between the ages of 15 and 24. There are about 700,000 so-called unemployed young people. In a civilized country - not this - we would worry about getting them all to graduation. What job? Between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four, we study. On the other hand, youth unemployment is preferred. Let us put justice in the field: away the old, already driven into unemployment and despair; away the fathers with children who are unable to study. This is the philosophy of the provision, of the present and of the future because, whatever you write, what you have to do is already decided: to few everything, to others nothing. This is the system that we propose to the country; otherwise we would do something else, and we would ask ourselves: how can we reward the enterprise and the capitalist who wants to put his resources in combination with work and make an economy grow? Those who, instead of selling them, build motorcycle factories; those who, instead of abandoning this country to its destiny, save it together with those who know how to put their heads, arms and their competence at the service of production. This we would do, but this is debilitated, there is neither in this provision nor in the others; it is not in the laws of stability. Let us slip into absolute decline and let us renounce to fight for the truth, not for the false; for the righteous, not for the wrong. We are the ones who do this work unfortunately; we who would have wanted to contribute: from our mouths you will never hear insults, but reflections also critical and heavy; but you will feel an appeal, even heartfelt to everyone, because we are on the brink of precipice. Take care: it looks like a bearable and light descent but when you get to the precipice it collapses, you go deeper and you rush. We are in this condition; there is no good data of our economy. Today the umpteenth Minister of the economy tells us that we will see the recovery next year. But this is yet another year in which this is repeated. This year there is a recession like last year; and we are one of the few, if not the only industrialized country to live this condition. We cannot always make those who are wrong rule. They were wrong in another time. They were there; they were the same. Those who deal with this matter have already dealt with it in previous right-wing governments. It must be said that it is enough and it must be said who has political responsibility, that is, who has the greatest consent of the country because that consensus has taken the left and not the right, and cannot be turned to the detriment of the workers. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, President, I have been working personally since the age of 17. I carried out heavy and humble work in factories, in the streets, on ambulances, during the massacred shifts in the operating power stations. In my life I have always fought with strikes, demonstrations and pickets, under the snow, sometimes without food, always for workers' rights. It's been tough years, but we've managed to get maternity, sickness, safety at work, retirement. Let us be clear; no one has given us anything, and one of those who fought with me has also died for social justice. With this job act we begin today the destruction of what remains of the world of work. In recent years we have witnessed the precariousness of all work systems. It all began with the reduction of wages following the arrival in Italy of cheap labour. Globalisation and the movement of masses of individuals have given rise to a minimum wage supply. Let's remember that at the moment, for the populations that escape from hunger and war, this is the most easily accessible country in the Mediterranean and that therefore this phenomenon is destined to worsen. This type of low-cost labour has brought down wages and created a labour market in which a mad rush to flexibility, precariousness and lower pay have created unemployment and, above all, distrust in the future. No serious policy has been put in place to prevent this disaster. Indeed, for twenty years it has taken advantage of the situation to cut workers' rights. The families, which today are forced to work precariously from 400 euros per month, have depressed the domestic consumption and have collapsed the industries of the real estate, the car, the food, the appliances and the transport. But this is due to a plethora of incapable politicians, who instead of sburocratizing, reducing the cost of labour and simplifying, have taxed to the unlikely, economically favoring the banks, the mafias and the financial market, all those subjects who take advantage of the countries in crisis. It is not by insecureizing the world of work even more, abolishing Article 18, which will have more recovery. The Nobel laureate for the economy also reiterates this today. Enough with the savage layoffs! There is no social protection of any kind in our country. Those who lose their jobs end up in the street and their children are also taken away. I invite you to take a tour of Caritas and the streets of this city, because you may not have understood how serious the situation is. What we need now is not a cut in workers' rights, but to have a true social protection system as soon as possible, as it exists in all civil states, such as citizenship income. We are going to kill all those who have died for the rights of the workers a second time. And I want to address the elected members of the Democratic Party, of which a large part have been trade unionists or have been elected by the votes of the workers, who as representatives of the workers must be ashamed: they betrayed the workers, they betrayed their mandate. But why don't you cut your wages, why don't you stop telling lies and teasing the Italians? Enough with being servants and slaves of Europe, let's raise our heads and become Italian again and not a colony of Germany! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u43	Madam President, the request for a vote of confidence seems to be a test of strength but, in my opinion, it is a sign of weakness. The Government calls on Parliament to legislate, while preventing Parliament from specifying the content of that delegation. The executive power in this way takes over the legislative power, to dispose of it as it pleases without any institutional counterweight: the Senate delegates by hearsay on television, but without those principles and guiding criteria prescribed by the Constitution. It is the anticipation of a method that will become normal with the current constitutional revision. Rules are being enforced for fear of a free parliamentary debate. The President of the Council is unable to table the amendments he has proposed as Secretary of his party. In this way, the delegation law will end up being deprived not only of some widely shared guarantees, but even of the famous issue of deletion of Article 18. It's on the media, but it doesn't appear in the lyrics. On the other hand, it seems that it does not matter what Parliament decides anymore: it will then be the Government, in a few months' time, that will write the real decrees. The important thing is now to create the appearance of a great reform. The subject was chosen by art to stage a symbolic opposition. Let's be honest: we could have saved this religious war on labour law! Not only because the country would need to regain social cohesion around a clear project of change, but above all because there is no practical reason to engage yet another Juslavorist duel. The first to be convinced of this seemed to be Matteo Renzi, only a few months ago ready to say that to discuss article 18 again was a nonsense. He had even committed himself to the people of the primaries to dismiss the matter. Why did you change your mind? An explanation would be necessary; otherwise it might raise the doubt that the war of religion is engaged to distract public opinion, to cover obvious difficulties of the government's action, to conceal the poor results obtained in the European negotiation. I fear that a method of government based on the continuous search for an enemy is being consolidated; this may serve to create an ephemeral consensus, but it does not help the country to find a course, it supports the social resentment, but it does not coagulate civil passions for change. The destructive fury this time is addressed to a non-existent target; another slap at the flies. Article 18 of the Workers' Statute no longer exists in Italian legislation because it was deleted from Monti two years ago. It is still said the hoax according to which in Italy today a company cannot fire for economic and disciplinary reasons. Last year there were about 800,000 individual layoffs; only 10 percent brought to court; only 0.3 percent cancelled. In fact, the technical government has removed all the constraints of the 1970s. He remained the reintegro only in the most extreme case, that is, when the magistrate finds the falsehood of the right cause. If the latter guarantee is now cancelled, a worker may be dismissed on charges of stealing, or on grounds of a corporate crisis, even if a trial proves that it is false. In other words, to dismiss a person it becomes legitimate to declare false in court: it is not economic flexibility, but legal barbarism, which denies a general principle of law: quod nullum est, nullum effectum producit. [[Applause from Senator Catalfo]] A threshold never crossed by Minister Fornero or, perhaps, I should say by Comrade Fornero, bitterly recognizing that the Technical Government has certainly mistaken on exodus, but has defended workers' rights better than the PD-led Government. Following our criticism, the reinstatement in the case of fake disciplinary, but not for the false economic causes, has been proposed again. This channel will become privileged to get unjustified layoffs. On the other hand, to empty a bucket of water just one hole is enough, you don't need two. In appearance, therefore, Renzi attacks Camusso, but in reality contests Fornero. It is curious that the former President-in-Office of the Council, Mario Monti, present in this House as a senator for life, does not feel the need to defend his law, which he also presented in all international fora as an instrument for the growth of GDP. Only in Italy can it happen that after two years another law on work is written, without even analyzing the effects of the previous one. For twenty years legislation has been constantly changing, without solving any problems, only increasing bureaucracy. The judiciary is attacked by the variety of judgments, sometimes too wide, forgetting that the excess of legislation has prevented the consolidation of jurisdiction over exemplary cases. What really drives foreign investors away is the hectic succession of new rules. If we honestly reflect on this Italian anomaly, the rhetoric of the conservatives that blocked the reforms of the innovators appears ridiculous. The opposite is true: too many reforms have been approved, all unfortunately wrong, and this bill perseveres in the mistakes of the past. We continue to believe that by lowering the bar of rights, growth should resume; experience should have convinced us that the devaluation of labour has contributed heavily to the crisis of productivity because it has reduced the capacity for innovation. We continue to oppose guaranteed and unprotected, while it is clear that both have lost rights over the twenty years, as the OECD now certifies. The contrast then is even more false in this bill because it keeps the reintegro for the employed workers and takes it away from the newly hired young people. We continue with the policy of the two times: "now we increase the precariousness, then the social shock absorbers will come". Since the Treu laws the promise has never been kept and this time the step back in rights is certain and immediate, while the unemployment benefit is uncertain and insufficient. We continue to denounce the brake of the union when it is evident to all that it has never counted so little in the factories. The politicians, even of the old guard, have always argued with the union leaders, but they have always prevented the approval of a law of representation that gave voice to the workers. It continues in the illusion that it is enough to encourage the present productive fabric to create work, but the recovery will not take place by doing the same things as before. There is no reflection on the failure of the tax bonuses for recruitment, the youth guarantee, or the lack of response to the ECB's loan offers. What else must happen to understand that rules and incentives are useless tools now if we do not innovate the productive structure of the country? In the first announcement of the jobs act, immediately after the primary, all these legends seemed abandoned, but now they are back in vogue; the strength of the past has taken over, reducing the enthusiasm of the novelty to a tired rhetoric. The large scraper completes the programs of the scraped right and left. Two generations believed in the announcements of flexibility combined with rights and were wounded. The promise to get out of the black hole of precariousness is too serious to be disappointed; this time the words must follow the facts. Only from this concern moves my criticism. I hear that the growing protection contract should eliminate the precariousness bag: can anyone indicate to me the paragraph that ensures this result? Unfortunately it does not exist because the new contract is added to the previous ones and the enterprises do not resort to the indefinite time if they can continue to manage relationships of work less expensive and without future; on the contrary, these have been ulteriorly stimulated with the decree Poletti of July, that it has lowered the guarantees of the fixed-term contracts and the apprenticeship; moreover in this bill delegation is extended even the use of the voucher. It has been announced the elimination of co.co.pro, but it is very difficult for this parasubordinate figure to arrive at a real employment contract; it is easier instead of regressing into the submerged VAT matches. On the other hand, the critics of the left - it has to be acknowledged - sin of normativeism, deceiving themselves that it is enough to remove this or that contractual figure in order to improve the quality of the work. There is a second generation self-employment linked to the technological transformation of our time; it is an amphibious figure that cannot be engulfed in the traditional schemes of the enterprise and the worker, but it must be recognized in its peculiarity and supported with non-conventional instruments. The Juslavoristic armor of this delegation law fails to contain the phenomenon and indeed risks stifling it. This amphibious character of tertiary work would require the activation of universalist protections - pensions, training, territorial welfare - regardless of contractual forms. Even income support must be linked to citizenship status and cannot be limited only to the transition from one job to another, as it is necessary and absolutely priority for employee work. The real flexibility is that of self-employment; for the subordinate one it would be much easier to bring the order back to a few clear contractual figures that provide a period of trial and training before the definitive assumption and forms of temporary employment more expensive and linked to real productive needs. This simplification is credible only if the most difficult reform is implemented in Italy, i.e. the obligation to comply with the law. The great part of the precariousness in subordinate work is in fact based on a practice of lawlessness and avoidance. In this proposal the Government is delegated to do everything except to organize an efficient system of controls on working conditions; it would suffice to strengthen the body of labour inspectors and to cross the databases with the fight against tax and social security evasion, with the aim of eliminating undeclared work and increasing security supervision. However, to set a good example would be first and foremost the State. In the vast majority, precarious public administration contracts are illegal, because they use temporary relationships for continuous functions and in some cases of sensitive public interest. The recent promise to hire 150,000 teachers who currently have annual chairs goes in the right direction and should also concern the many figures who are in similar conditions (researchers, archaeologists, engineers, architects, computer scientists and social workers), not only to respect the dignity of those workers, but also because the enhancement of their skills would increase the quality of public policies. Even the highest-down tenders today contribute to the spread of illegality and savage precariousness, while public procurement should take care of respect for labour rights. It is curious that this bill deals with the private market and completely ignores the responsibilities of the State as a direct and indirect employer. Among the lines of this provision there is a distrust in the future of the country. It is believed that Italy cannot be different from what it is today: it is not able, that is, to modify its traditional economic structure now put out of play by international competition. The aim is to solve the problem by eliminating rights and reducing wages, which are already the lowest in Europe today, perhaps using the 80 euros and the TFR to balance the bill. Sounds like a common sense choice, but it's a dead end. Emerging countries will always be in the best cost conditions to win competition. The only way to maintain the rank of a great country is, instead, to improve the technological level, the specialization of the productive fabric, access to the knowledge economy. But it would take a completely different government agenda. Continuing training should be focused on improving skills, while workers' demise by law is promoted here. One should focus on the industrial policies of the green economy, while the decree "unblocks-Italy" raises the rent real estate. The focus should be on scientific and technological research, which will be further cut by the law of stability. The digital economy should be focused not on words but on concrete actions that are not yet seen. Unfortunately, there has never been a change of direction. So far, there's only been steps backwards. With institutional reforms voters count less than before. With the jobs act the guarantees for the workers are compromised. These choices were not foreseen in the 2013 electoral programme that we signed as MPs of the PD. We were not elected to weaken rights. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u44	LIUZZI. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u45	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, jobs act: only hypothetically this Government, and only on its name, is at the forefront probably because giving meaning to nothing in Italian would be clearer and more understandable and, therefore, the decline in consensus would be immediate. In fact, already now counting the PD members and calculating the percentage of the drop is certainly a way to create accounting work, especially when the accounts do not return. Too bad that Renzi's performances in English have disappointed and, if it gives us so much, the result will be only and only bankruptcy. President Renzi, my English won't be the best but I'm sure it's understood: "No job, no lunch." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Vacciano]] Turning to the current debate, listening to the speeches of some who have preceded me, I think it is clear that for many, unfortunately too many, the distance from what happens every day to companies and workers is neither perceived nor understood. Perhaps you should go out and confront the real world, that of the crisis that is increasingly gripping this country: unemployment is almost 13% and youth is 44.2%. These percentages are scary. Unuseless and sterile are the discussions on Article 18 as a panacea for all evils, with the sole aim of distracting citizens from the inability of this Government to concentrate the only and only problem: work, gentlemen. What protections for those who do not have a job, for those who have never been able to work? What incentives for entrepreneurs who only ask to work, to give work and to be competitive? What answers to those who, in this war for survival, have already lost everything and often, unfortunately, did not stand up and decided to end it? (18.17) (BELLOT followed). Do you think, then, to give answers in Article 18? Less slides and more concreteness. Italy does not need an advertising marketing school for the launch of an outdated product. Already the mere fact that this reform is cost-free, can be translated with nothing in fact. Thinking of doing a reform of the labour market without allocating own resources or even using those of companies and workers, with a distorted availability of the FTT, already reveals how empty the reform itself is. No tax relief, no incentive, I mean, nothing at all. Downloading on companies the cost of the reform by providing for greater participation by companies that use social shock absorbers is an incorrect "we delegate the others that you have inserted in Article 1 with the delegation to the revision of the shock absorbers themselves. Of course, at this moment we are talking about the content of the draft law that we know about, because we do not really know what the maxi amendment will contain, so what are we talking about in practice? We intervene on what we know and not on what you have done in an antithetical way, making us jump into the dark and forcing us to work in a disastrous and desperate way. Returning to the provision, Article 4 antithetical is the choice to leave alive the so-called Poletti decree - I address to you, Minister - with a causal term contracts that have prolonged the precariousness for thirty-six months, less expensive for the companies, with the introduction now of the single contract of insertion to increasing protections, a long denomination that practically involves the void since it is difficult to coordinate the two solutions, being clearly the first most attractive for companies constantly in difficulty. We are therefore talking about proposals that are in fact unworkable or, in any case, impossible to choose because they are uneconomic for the companies themselves. Then again increase of precarious (this word that looks like your battle horse) with the insertion of a mini jobs on the fake line of the German one, in order only to distort temporary numbers of employment at low wages. It seems, in fact, that the only objective is not stability, competitiveness, but - I repeat - precarious, precarious and still precarious: no future for our young people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Article 5 provides for measures to protect parenthood and reconcile working and living times - what work? - and the introduction of tax credit as an incentive to work for women working, even self-employed, with minor children and under a certain credit threshold. For the latter I am still waiting to know the outcome of a motion and a question published on 20 June 2013 - I repeat the date: 2013 - signed by me and the Group of the North League and Autonomies relating to the refinancing of projects referred to in Article 9 of Law No 53 of 2000, an existing instrument but never refinanced: already, there is no money, yet you had the tools, you had the opportunity to revive those entrepreneurs who are still bravely on the market, who courageously still give work and remain competitive for having a government that absolutely does not give any chance of being one. Yet, gentlemen, for a failure Mare nostrum the money has been found; the money you have, and not a few. To implement hosts of desperate people that you deceive into making them believe they can find a future in this country now adrift, there are funding. You are creating despair over despair and then knocking on the door of a Europe that looks at this Government as the Brancaleone army. Maybe you should go watch the movie to see how that army worked: you're really very similar to the movie trend! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It's yesterday's - another confirmation of the Brancaleone army! - Minister Alfano's statement: Operation Safe Beaches has produced excellent results in the fight against counterfeiting. Secure beaches and defence of Made in Italy, defence of the health of citizens and the legal economy. The State attacks the system of counterfeiting: companies in crisis and immigrants everywhere to illegally sell in our made in Italy counterfeit. But, gentlemen, you don't have to go to the beach! Take a tour of Rome, turn around the corner of these streets, you will see immigrants everywhere selling everything and more, in an illegal way and among other things counterfeited, without even a certificate, a quality mark, without the security that must be given to citizens and consumers: nothing at all. But you, blind people, pass straight ahead; yet - I repeat - all this is visible around the corner. Few ideas, well confused and on the shoulders of the citizens, of the administrations: mayors now reduced to tax collectors, important cuts to local authorities, no action to release the possibility of giving employment from the Stability Pact holding firm figures that could help work, give back work, start the economy again. We always go back there, to that word you can't say in Italian: work, gentlemen, it's called work, and not job, a big word, which in the end in Europe, said in Italian for this Government, doesn't matter at all. President Renzi, I do not know if in your life you have ever stamped a card, if you have ever been afraid of losing your job, if you know what it means to look for a job or start all over again, maybe at 40 years of age: I have tried it and I tell you that maybe it would be good for you to try it too, in order to understand the fears of the citizens of this country, of the young, of the exodus and of the unemployed who do not know how to start living again. Believe me, the job is a certainty that we all want to have in order to be able to pass it on to our children, now forced to go abroad to work and to hear that we have real excellences and that more and more Italians are fleeing from the country. From a figure emerged from the 2014 Italian Report in the World of the Migrantes Foundation, the percentage of Italians abroad at this time has grown by 16.1 percent and not by choice, believe me. We are talking about almost 95,000 citizens of this country who have left: a wealth, a real productive capacity that here finds absolutely no chance of having something in return. Let us remember that it is not true that this country of ours has no capacity, intellect and desire to work: there are young people who would seek work daily, willing to do anything to enter that world and that market that you have barred and closed at the moment; young people looking for work, who want to leave the families, to have autonomy, to be able to make a family and have a future that you have denied; young people who are children of a country governed by those who are playing with their future and by a President who loves only self-celebration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u46	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u47	Mr President, the debate we have been having for several days in this House is particularly important, but at the same time it is also quite surreal. As has been said in so many speeches this afternoon, we are debating a text of the delegation law which has been examined in the Commission and which is now in the proceedings of the Senate, but which could be changed tomorrow, so the speeches we are doing on the subject could also have another direction. Certainly it would have been much more useful to have a debate in this House on the concrete objectives of government action and on the effective instruments to get our country out of the economic crisis in which it has been stagnating for years, to revive employment, to restore hope and to get out of depression entire sections of the population, such as urgent interventions that can no longer be postponed to eliminate precarious contracts. We all know that precariousness has existed for too many years, we are all aware that the responsibility for the 46 forms of precarious contracts is of many, even the center-left that has often ruled, fascinated by the worst liberal policies. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Today it is clear to everyone that those recipes have produced no work, no growth. There is no scientific evidence, if anything, of the existence of a direct relationship between dismissal and employment rate. It is not enough to announce that precarious contracts are eliminated: we want to know how and why in the law delegates all this is not there and do not tell us that you are extending the protections, because for now we are talking about 1.5 billion and, if mathematics is not an opinion, the numbers say that it is not enough to cover even the costs of the current IGC. No one can demagogy on the skin of those who do not have the job or are terrified of losing it. Insecurity affects security and the meaning of life. The stories of precariousness and social despair are many. Many of us know Martha. Some of us may have been Marta before we were here, because motherhood to precarious young people has been denied for over fifteen years. Too bad and, at the same time, luckily you have realized the social disaster that your alleged reforms have produced over the years. It is not enough to say self-fulfillment: "We were not in Parliament," because if you were not here to vote, you were certainly in other places to approve the decisions that killed the work, the stable one, the safe one. But what are the measures of this delegation to protect the work of women? The working mothers? Why didn't you include the proposal of the resignation in white as provided for by the law passed in the House? Perhaps once again that rule reveals the real novelty and the real director. We want facts, not chatter, the truth of facts and not falsehood. ISTAT data these days tell us that the unemployment rate in our country has stabilised. There are more than 710,000 unemployed between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four, an entire generation that has long been in danger of feeling hopeless. Inflation data show that we have entered a deflation regime on a permanent basis: the internal market has collapsed and there is likely to be a further slight decrease. As we predicted - ahinoi - also the effect of the 80 euros, precisely because of the financing mechanism through spending cuts, did not lead to the increase of GDP, expected by the government, of 0.1% but, indeed, brought a negative balance. It is evident from the data that expansive austerity is an oxymoron. Radical changes of paradigm are needed. France has announced the lengthening of time to fall within the European parameters and budgetary balance, explicitly confirming its criticism of austerity measures and strengthening the battle promoted by so many economists along with so many forces of civil society, unions, supported by us also by the Left Ecology and Freedom, by many MPs of the democratic party, by the promoters of the referendum against fiscal compact to eliminate from the Constitution the inclusion of the obligation to balance the budget. The President-in-Office of the Council immediately agreed, but then continued along the same path. With good peace in the austerity model, urgent instruments are needed to revive the economy, an analysis of the reference markets, technological innovation tools to be used to improve production processes and product quality. We need a series of industrial policy - our country has not had it for too long - which includes public support, on the German model, aimed at relaunching economic activities. Public guarantees are needed immediately to facilitate access to credit. The competitive deficit in which our companies are located is not due to excessive protection and workers' rights but often to the few ideas of managers, the poor quality of products and services, the lack of clear and coherent strategies and choices. It does not even depend on excessive labour costs, making all the sacrifices of these years useless. ISTAT data tell us that jobs in innovative sectors have not increased and even wages have not increased in these sectors because there has been no investment in quality and skills. The director of the Banca d'Italia, Visco, last 1 April, argued that there is a wrong flexibility. He said: "We have observed a not useful flexibility, used by companies that have not innovated (...). For a long time they have delayed reducing labour costs by exploiting flexibility. He also pointed out that in today's global market, the only way to relaunch European companies is to innovate, investing in technological innovation and product quality. The idea of reducing guarantees and rights is only an alibi that delays or cancels the possibility of relaunching. This is exactly what is happening through this other brilliant idea of putting the TFR into paycheck: it scrapes the bottom of the barrel taking today what we had planned for our old age. Italians, we know, have a historical tendency to save and capitalization and this has contributed in recent years to limiting the heavy effects of the crisis. Renzi today proposes not to think too much about the future, to focus on the present and to give a little at a time every month in the envelope pays a part of the funds that - it is good to remind everyone - are already workers' funds. We are not talking about any wage increases. We are faced with the monetization of work. So let us not forget that, in times of Fornero law, you retire very late and with very low pensions and the TFR is often used to survive, provided that no advances have been requested to cope with the crisis. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella.]] Are we sure that all workers will be aware of what it means to have the TFR in paycheck? A total sum can be invested and protected, a sum given every month is more easily dispersed, not to mention - and not even this you tell - of the different taxation systems to which the normal wages and the TFR are subjected. This proposal makes clear two aspects: the Government does not believe in the revival of the economy, the resumption of production, the expansion towards new markets and the revival of employment and instead equips itself to guarantee compensatory content at zero cost through an additional salary taken from the FTT. The economic project that the Government has in mind for the country is to try to make companies competitive by reducing real wages. It is assumed that there is no way of restarting the economy except by lowering wages and working conditions. Given the wage levels and guarantees of the rest of the world, this negative spiral is not only very dangerous, but it risks not ending. Above all, once again we are not faced with any innovative recipe but a nineteenth-century system is proposed. No conservatism, but I would say a pure restoration. Not to mention the fact that for many companies TFR is the main tool of self-financing. At a time when access to credit is very difficult, perhaps we should also reflect on this. But if that is the framework, if it is not with the reduction of the protections and rights that is relaunching the economy and creating employment, why is this outrage on Article 18? Many times in this House Germany has been mentioned, wrongly or rightly, as a model: there Article 18 is envisaged with the reinstatement and flanked by a welfare quite different from ours. We have all read the comparative study published in these days, in which it has been discovered, after years of demagogy on Italian exceptionality, that in other countries the protections are more extensive than the ideologies of precariousness that we called flexibility. Countries that provide compensation for workers instead of reintegro are an absolute minority in Europe, and also in the so-called flexsecurity models, dear to our President-in-Office, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, are expected to reintegrate and support the worker when he appeals against unlawful dismissal. In many cases it is expected that the worker will continue to work pending the judge's decision. All this is added to a strong additional network of protection in the event of unemployment, demonstrating that Article 18 is not an excessive protection justified only by the absence of other protections; in the countries of Northern Europe there are exactly both, and here that we had only the first to date, now we risk losing that too, in the name of a principle equal to the downward. Work is not only commodity, as you have thought so far: work is freedom and it is not only for living and surviving, but for being free. The link between work and freedom is very important and this is what you are hitting, because you put the enterprise at the center of your action, claiming its centrality. Freedom in work means that you are not accompanied by fear and are not blackmailed in daily practice. Needless to say, this battle, like the others created to art in these long thousand days, corresponds to a populist reflection that our Premier puts in place when he is in difficulty: he identifies at the table of enemies, engages with them battles of principle to polarize public opinion, divide those who side with him, the innovator who battles against the conservatives represented by the unions, the left, a part of his party, economists, the academic world, who reads macro-economic data, diverting attention from the busted numbers of his DEF, from the increasingly dramatic data of unemployment and GDP. But Italians don't fall for it anymore. Italy can no longer afford to waste time behind an unproductive populism and behind fake reforms such as that of the Senate (which are only of facade, which keep almost all the costs and only take away space from democracy), without having the courage to attack the real ganglia of this country, to show how to get out of the crisis and to provide companies concrete tools to companies. In this reform we have never heard of safety at work. The cuts and changes that have been made in recent years to the famous legislative decree No. 626 of 1994 have been tremendous. Today there are millions of accidents on jobs and about a thousand deaths a year. So do we want to be competitive on quality and safety, or do we want to be competitive on removing protection and rights? But if the effect for the present and for the future is non-existent we must not underestimate the profound cultural effects that all this entails: to identify the responsibility for the country's deep crisis in the unions, to make the union the scapegoat, to reduce its role and contractual power. In short, this means simply letting the maneuverer free: today it is up to the unions, yesterday it was the turn of the parties and now we are proceeding with the institutions. The debate should focus on what we have to do in practice. This summer we have all read the research that shows that the impoverishment of the middle class is now a structural fact of our economic model and is not just a factor related to the economic crisis. Concrete redistributive measures are therefore essential. At stake is the collapse of the European social model and of all basic services as we have known them so far. The cuts are now unbearable, reaching the limit, so much to put in crisis the very delivery of the services, far beyond the quality of the same. So let us begin to talk about introducing progressive taxation on large capitals and large assets, perhaps coordinated with the other countries of the European Union. We don't hear about that either. The British Labour Party, to which we are often referring, has put at the centre of its proposals for the May 2015 election campaign the mansion tax, that is an extraordinary additional tax on luxury properties, with values of more than two and a half million euros, to finance a reduction in taxes for lower incomes. And more: other moderate progressive forces across Europe are developing proposals in that direction: detaxing work, promoting public investment through progressive taxation of capital and property, highly progressive inheritance taxes that in any case continue to exempt small assets. These are progressive forces: it is the least a leftist political force could do. This frees up the necessary resources to make the necessary investments to revive our economy. We must avoid the polarization of wealth, from entrepreneurs, to workers, to young people who want to open a start-up. Today, an entrepreneur who continues to carry out his business at risk seems irresponsible, while he could safely liquidate everything and live on rent. Protecting work, investing in education and training, as enshrined in the Constitution, then becomes a priority. We have also heard you talk too many times about merit. Here too we want to ask what this merit means, because in this phase of economic crisis and cuts we would not want to become an alibi for some university professor or for some professional, to favor the son of the family friend who already knows and is so good, leaving out the best and reset with clientelism and favoritism an entire generation of young people. A reform of the labour market that does not start from objective and transparent criteria on how to enter the labour market is useless. It is clear that the interests of the middle class of the workers are the same of the small entrepreneurs and of the many young people who dream of using their ideas with a start-up without having the duty to emigrate. The sburocratization, public guarantees to access credit for private and small enterprises: it needs a real plan for the small business and start-ups that drastically reduces the cost of entry, that simplify the requirements, that allows to receive legal and tax advice free of charge from the public. Here, too, Germany can be taken as an example: a national economic support agency that helps businesses of any size to grow, to attack the reference markets, to coordinate their promotion activities. From this point of view it is the very interest of companies to stabilize the workforce and have an extended Nordic welfare that allows their workers to live with greater tranquility. To do all this, it would be enough to start with the next law of stability and make those choices in the field, of which we often listen with great emphasis the slogans: we need large investments on the sectors that can serve as a driving force for the country. So we need to invest in culture, energy, technology, sustainable tourism and energy restoration of our real estate. Alternatively, stagnation will continue, with its load of inanity and social depression. We must then have the courage not to deceive, nor to look for shortcuts, let alone to take time waiting for a recovery, which will of course be late to arrive, if we continue in this way. In recent months, regarding large and new resources to be found, we have never heard the expression "hard fight against tax evaders" in the slogans of the President of the Council, and this is a big problem for a government that says it has to change direction. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] In conclusion, in asking for permission to allow the acts to supplement my speech, I would like to remind you that this measure is not only about labour market reform, but also about the credibility of a government that seems to be taking precious months in facade battles that have not changed anything so far. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups]] , but they only gave the impression to citizens that something is being done in the hope of intercepting economic recovery. This, however - ahinoi - also concerns the credibility of the country all. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u48	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the addition of your speech to be published in the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u49	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u50	Mr President, today we see that the President-in-Office of the Council Renzi and Minister Poletti have the world of work in hand, but it is characterized by a peculiarity: work is there when companies sell their products, because by selling they manage to hire people. In times of crisis like the one we're experiencing, what happens? Companies are no longer able to sell their products: in such a case, a far-sighted Government should go down the cost of labour, so that workers can still get a job and thus reach the end of the month. Here, however, it happened that the Government presented the measure under consideration today, the jobs act, considering, with this system, that they will come from foreign investors to solve the problem of work, so that all of us will have it and that many unemployed will finally succeed in having the honorable salary. The problem, though, isn't it another one? The problem of Article 18 is not Article 18: in our country, the problem is taxes, which for companies are too high, leading them not to be competitive with all the rest of Europe and especially with non-European countries. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; The problem is the tax wedge of labour and bad justice. Foreign investors and many companies do not come here in Italy to invest in the problem of justice: if they have to have rights, they do not have the certainty that they are recognized. Let's just think about the problem that many companies have in recovering their credits: they spend years before they are granted the right to have the price of what they sold. Another problem which, in our view, is crucial - and which would cost nothing to solve - is bureaucracy. Minister, explain to me how to open a company here in Italy spend months, if not years. Perhaps there are good entrepreneurs who would like to invest, opening up a company in an area where they might be able to get people to work, but they encounter a whole series of hiccups, starting from the various authorizations and conferences of services, from all those who resort, etc. There are such cases as the famous one of Ikea, who wanted to open a company in Central Italy and waited seven years before having the authorization, something to freak out. That's the way this country is, and it doesn't seem to be able to solve the problem. In nearby Switzerland and nearby Austria in twenty-one days a company can open and leave immediately. Not here: you don't understand why here - instead - you can't do it. Mr Minister, Article 18 is not the real problem for us to restart work in Italy. We've seen it with small businesses. Small businesses under 15 do not have Article 18, yet we look at the myriads and thousands of small companies that have closed down. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] This is a fundamental fact. It is necessary to try to understand what are the real reasons why here, in Italy, you can not find a job; while other countries are leaving again, Italy is not, is standing at the stake. Let us turn to another consideration, Minister. We're here to discuss today. I do not want to go into the substance of the speech that my colleagues have already mentioned about the fact that we do not know what the measure will be, since we have not yet seen the text on which you will put your trust. But, Minister, a minimum of consideration. I repeat: a minimum of consideration. It is Parliament that gives you the delegation: at least listen to us and keep us in mind. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] Or, Minister, is the Senate Chamber already abolished and we do not count for anything anymore? We don't count for anything anymore? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Bulgarelli]] We don't count anything because we have to do it quickly; we have to do it quickly! Tomorrow there is the meeting of European bureaucrats at work and we must go there with the package. Allow me with the manifesto. The manifesto with the words: did you see it? Here we've done the jobs act and it will solve all the problems. However, there is nothing about content in this jobs act. My impression is that the President-in-Office of the Council does a bit like Alberto Sordi in the film: ==References====External links== Do you remember the phrase in which the Marquis says: I am me and you are nobody? That's it, Minister. That's how we are. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] ; we are living this situation where Renzi does, does and does what he wants and we are nobody. I repeat: we are nobody. This is appalling because, however, we have been elected and we have a duty to those people who have elected us to make their reasons heard; not that the Prime Minister is only doing what he wants in his vision! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] Because that's just it. He has such a vision that many times I have to say: but do you realize what is the reality of companies, the reality of workers, of citizens? Mr President, allow me to make another point. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] .. Yes, the expression "permits me" is ugly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u51	It's not even forbidden, though.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u52	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We can't understand why the government decided to use the bill. If the job problem is an urgent problem, why didn't you use the decree-law? By the way, it would have been perhaps the only time there would have been no constitutional problems. The measure is urgent: urgent decree-law, because the problem of work is urgent. No, the government wanted to show that it is magnanimous: I refer to the bill, so I submit it to Parliament; I want to have your opinion. No, you haven't. You've done what you want. The same "Finncial Times" is Renzi's wand because it defines the jobs act as a series of vague proposals and general intentions: guidelines without a clear intention to arrive at a single and more universal form of employment contract. It is the "Finncial Times" that says so. Then there is another consideration: this bill will be followed by the legislative decrees implementing it. But all of us can see and have proof of the difficulty of enacting the legislative decrees. How many still lack of legislative decrees in all the previous measures, which have not yet been enacted! And do we really think that, given all the arrears, these are gonna get out? I hope so, but the concern is strong and the doubts are much more so. From an economic point of view, the measure has left me puzzled about two issues. The first concerns the strange word you have included in the text, where it provides for the harmonisation of the deduction regime for the dependent spouse. What will happen with harmonisation? If the deduction for the dependent spouse is removed, workers with an income of between 8,000 and 20,000 euros will be removed about 1,000 euros in one year and income between 20,000 and 25,000 euros will be removed about 700 euros in one year. Figures - allow me, Minister - which vaguely remind me of the 80 euros, of which Renzi has filled his mouth, saying: Did you see that? I'll give you the money! Workers, I'm the only one who gave you the money! Now, with this fine word - harmonization - tac: money will be taken from income. It is easy then to say that the 80 euros will become structural: I'll give them to you on the one hand, but I'll take them from the other! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] What has changed for the worker, in addition to the fact that he has to pay more local taxes, why does this Government continue to cut funds to municipalities and regions? The second question concerns the National Employment Agency. Let's focus again! This National Agency will include the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, it will be supervised by the Ministry and there will be the involvement of the social partners. But in order to agree on all these players, it will be months before something profitable for the labour market results! One final consideration and I conclude: jobs act. An English title to make this important measure seem, to make it look like a resolver. It's in English and people don't understand. But it just seems to us that the mountain has given birth to the mouse! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u53	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u54	Mr President, all the Members who have spoken so far have pointed out that there is no text to work on, as if there were no dead people to cry on. In the opening of the intervention, I would like to take back what Senator Divina said last week, my teacher: that our old men maintained that if you start buttoning a shirt by wronging the sequence of the first buttonhole, then the whole shirt will be buttoned badly. Well, our old men are wise, also because President Renzi of clumsy paired buttonholes and buttonholes knows it and not to laugh! It follows, Mr President, that my colleague was right; if an island is mistaken, the whole design is lost. If you start off on the wrong foot, you are mistaken the sense or approach of even a law. It is popular wisdom and, in this regard, I give a little advice to everyone, although perhaps a little too much advice, I would rather give a suggestion, which is much less than advice. I suggest going to see a beautiful video of Gilberto Govi, Genoese comedian, who interprets with wonder what Senator Divina explained in his speech last week. Mr President, there is no politician, there is no one from the last two or three governments who has not been involved in the reforms to restart the economy of this country; none of them has ever thought of not doing anything about growth and the relaunch of the industrial system. None of them have ever dreamed of not putting their hands on the idea of reducing taxes, acting on the banking system, dealing with justice, energy policy and schools. By the way, congratulations: in the last seven or eight months we have renovated all schools. Now they're all beautiful, neat and safe. All with their formulas, their studies and tricks, maybe someone even with some dreams. But then we are confronted with reality, the inability to read on which side the world is going, the difficulties of Europe, this blessed or cursed single currency, the unique thought and immigration. Perhaps we have not yet understood where we are going to end with immigration: its problems and internal and external balances to this blessed country, although we have one of the most important offices that could be occupied in Europe. And then you tear your clothes up trying to understand what model to relate to: the German one, the American one or, again and perhaps it is better, to which not to relate and not to take as an example (Spain, Greece and other African countries, probably). President Renzi said this morning that we need a climate of confidence in this country. I wondered if he was making fun of himself: how many trusts have he put in this House by now? I don't even remember them anymore. Trust; how can you have it if the question of trust is put on a delegated law and if you receive the unions, Confindustria and other people a few minutes before placing it? If I have understood correctly, tomorrow in Milan the Conference on Economics will begin, while we may still be voting for this confidence. It has not yet been possible to comment on this major amendment because the text is not yet of our knowledge, but, apparently, it is not even of your knowledge. [[Applause from the Divine Senators and Bignami.]] Senator Latorre said that it is desirable that confidence should not be used, but if a obstructive attitude is produced in Parliament, then confidence will become an instrument of self-defense. Now I understand why he became President of the Defence Commission. But what obstructionism? It was probably forty-eight hours and three days in the Chamber to complete the work. Minister Padoan said that there is a failure of budgetary policies that are too strict. This is reflected in the lack of growth, and it also explains the reasons for it: growth estimates have been excessively optimistic, growth has had to move further in time and some causes have not yet been well understood. I don't know who made these estimates; maybe someone else. Senator Uras was right: at the end of the year, very positive estimates are always made. In fact, in the document of economy and finance all estimates are revised downwards. GDP, projected to grow by 0.8%, was estimated at -0.2 to -0.3 The deficit-GDP ratio should be 2.9% compared to 2.6%, and this 2.9 percent, slightly below 3%, makes the antennas a little straight, because it seems blatantly tarocked for the occasion. There was also talk of the TFR in paycheck. It is equivalent to the annual income divided by 13,5, i.e. approximately one salary. There has been talk of anticipating 50% of the FTT matured for at least one year and then maybe extending this measure to three years, which happens to correspond to about 1,000 days. Businesses are not at all excited about this, because they should immediately pay that money. In companies with fewer than 50 employees, the TFR of which according to the 2006 reform the worker chose not to avail remains in the company, and the same companies use this figure to finance themselves. This is an accumulation of around 24 billion per annum, 40% of which is found in small and medium-sized enterprises. With the assumption that half of the liquidation would be paid, there would be a hole of about 5 billion in the already empty coffers of these companies; it follows that companies cannot be called into debt to support the consumption of their employees, in particular at a time when banks' credit is increasingly difficult to obtain. Clearly a little money is useful to the worker, but with the same workers you have to be extremely frank: that money at the time of retirement will no longer be there. We will spend today the wealth that should guarantee a retreat from work more serene, I would say more protected, certainly more certain. In the first eight months of 2014 the revenue from small and medium-sized enterprises collapses: -3.5 billion from IRES and less than one billion from IRPEF, dear Mr President. President Renzi, we are in the European Semester and no one noticed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] Europe's spotlight was considered one of the key moments in its administration, a political thermometer that did not even have a fever line, a beat, not even a whisper. Instead, this is becoming the French semester, because the President of that country has reiterated that his budget law will provide for a deficit-GDP ratio of 4.4 percent, to reach 2.8% only in 2017. France will therefore take three net years to bring the ratio between the amount of government expenditure not covered by revenue and gross domestic product under the 3% quota provided for in the EU Treaties. Treaties never so openly disavowed by an important country like France, which has openly declared that no further effort will be required of France, because the government takes budgetary responsibility to put the country back on track. To this President who does not like me particularly I would say a medal to courage, which our President (for whom I have more or less the same sympathy) has not been able to do nor will he ever do. However, France has accustomed us to this kind of attitude even when it has tried to adapt its national interests to the rules of the European Union, when continental competition was damaging the interests of its businesses. This on the parameters, Mr President, is a very serious rift that could put at risk the now worn-out architecture of Europe and the euro. Chapeau, François. It will be very interesting to see how the meeting between Hollande, Renzi and Merkel ends. It is the first meeting after France's challenge on the accounts to be respected and Renzi, as a good Christian Democrat, said that France is right and at Merkel he said that we will respect the accounts. There's something wrong with me. Let us then try to summarize: tomorrow's confidence, this morning's meeting with the trade unions, Confindustria and the banks; in a separate place, there was a meeting by the whole PD critical wing to this measure to see what to do. Then maybe, tomorrow, during trust, a few late planes will arrive, not always being on time, and someone will be sick. So, my dear Renzi, I do not know if you will be able to go on like this, with a maxi amendment that to the left of the left cannot go well, but perhaps has made a great noise for nothing. Is it serious to go on like this? I don't think so. A handful of senators don't vote for trust and the government falls. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] As I said, so much noise for nothing: everything will be entrusted to the implementing decrees. And this morning - everyone should remember this, even if other Members have already done so - four times there has been no quorum in this House. Aria grama, President. But I also see tactics: here was not a nice tube of the maxi amendment. You took your time, you didn't let us talk, and you threw us out half a day. Then we talk about work and in Bergamo they say: "My nanny oïa fan". Let's move on so we're okay. No fear, President Renzi: neither you nor your Government will fall, or at least it will not fall now. They will let you go on until an electoral law is ready that will be good for you as well as for those who are ready to stamp it in case of need. Well said Senator Uras: we are waiting for an OP on PD by Berlusconi. Sometimes you get to buy one party before you build another party. Mr President, is Article 18 and the amendments that are intended to be made to it also applicable to all those voters of primary schools who have not come to the polls in the reddest, most organized and most disciplined region? For them, Mr President, are there plans for a reinstatement? We will see if there is any possibility of tabling any amendments, but it does not seem to be, much less to see it adopted. We will see if anyone on this question who I put to you will at least present an amendment or an agenda. Mr President, as far as the uprising of umbrellas in Hong Kong is concerned, it is clear that this is not the same case as Ukraine, but it still looks a lot like us. If the Chinese Government were to send the army to restore calm and to quell the protest, how will Europe move us to take the same initiatives against Russia and, therefore, the embargo? You know, President, with Russia, there are hundreds of millions of euros in damage. An embargo on China would make us extremely comfortable, very comfortable. Other than the changes to Article 18 and TFR in pay envelope to revive the economy! You'd be doing those duties the League's been talking about for 25 years. He said well Celentano: "He who does not work does not make love." That's why our country has zero population growth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut eM5S groups and Senators Campanella and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u55	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, let me say that the announcement of confidence in this bill, with the ensuing general debate on a text that appears to have already been passed, seems to me to show a level of contempt for Parliament never reached by a Head of Government, if not by Dr Berlusconi. Now, the political contingency in which we are finding ourselves seems to me very similar to the final stages of a bullfight, to that moment when the bull, after being wounded several times to break it, eventually tired and confused is killed (even if it is necessary to remember that sometimes it is the bull that has the upper hand). The jobs act is proposed as the blow of grace to the Workers' Statute, Law No. 300 of 1970; a law that has not been given by anyone, was born after years of struggles of the workers organized to give a grid of rights to employees, and with those the dignity of work, so much dignity to be able to look to the face of the owner of the factory, or of the call center, or of the hypermarket today, and defend together from the situation of disadvantage in which it places them the need to work under the dependencies of others in order to live. The guarantees conquered by the workers have always been attacked, since they have been obtained, and in recent years, in the tension towards the famous structural reforms, yearned for by the times of liberalism, have been amputated of important pieces: the Treu package has defined new precarious cases of work; the Biagi law has exploded the forms of precariousness, what the entrepreneurs call flexibility (with that law there were more than 40 positions and different measures of flexibility of the worker); then the Fornero law that has still increased flexibility, and has already faded Article 18, putting it in a position not to harm too much, with the drastic reduction of the cases that give rise to the reintegration of the workplace and allowing the employer, who falsely - and, I repeat, falsely - motivates with economic reasons the dismissal of an employee, to get rid of it, to get rid of the worker hunted with false reasons: enough to pay. This, attention, where the worker, unjustly fired, finds the courage and the money to try to defend his right, which is now annihilated more than weakened. But this reform, in addition to the overcoming of Article 18, of which we have so much talked, with the elimination of the institute of permanent work as we, we of our generation, have known it, and its replacement by the permanent contract to increasing safeguards - excused, growing from where? - also provides for the possibility to demand workers and to control them at a distance, as in the movie "Modern Times," do you remember? So I turn to the last colleagues and colleagues of the Democratic Party (other colleagues in the majority are in full coherence with themselves and with the policy they have always pursued): excuse me, you are thinking of dismantling the system of guarantees for work, so instead of a few guaranteed jobs, the benevolent market will offer so many more modern jobs. Do you really believe that? In recent years jobs have become increasingly precarious, but they have not increased, rather they have decreased. They have decreased for relocations, because production has been reduced because of the reduction of domestic consumption, in turn reduced for the reduction of the income of the workers; decreased because investments from abroad to our country have been reduced, but not for the guarantees at work, as because justice malfunctions, public administration malfunctions, organized crime is present and vital and so is corruption. However, despite such serious and urgent problems, the Government draws attention to the guarantees of employees, removing all discrimination between stable and precarious workers, turning them all into precarious workers. "Contratto a tutele crescendo" is a sort of ircocervo: a contract that with time becomes more and more stable, but starting from what level of guarantee and to reach what other level of guarantee? It is not known, nor is it clear from the text of the draft law delegation: among other things, it is such a broad delegation, that it really needs a great deal of confidence on the part of Parliament towards the Government, since in practice it is like saying: "Go, do, we have faith in you." The only things we have learned from the television chatter of the President-in-Office of the Council. At this point I would like to ask my colleagues in the Democratic Party whether they are reminding the industrial reserve army of the unemployed - perhaps too old a concept. I have no problem recognizing that you can change your mind, after so long and with so many experiences, and that even ex-Marxists do not remember this concept, but at least explain it to people. In fact, when I see someone among you who struggles to explain it on television to the citizens, I see him practicing - more or less happily - in a series of rhetorical suggestions, without giving any concrete explanations. It explains what you will get with the type of changes you are trying to make - the magnificent and progressive fortunes, would say someone once - but not how, nor at what price. Among other things, the frankly unpleasant thing is to contrast the interests of the precarious - which the Democratic Party itself has contributed over time to create - to the interests of the permanent workers who, by the way, for now with their salaries supplement the insufficient incomes of the children, whose jobs have already been modernised. I ask my colleagues in the Democratic Party what they are doing: did you wonder how much of the new wealth produced today goes to work and how much, instead, to rents, speculation, management organization? Have you wondered how these quantities have moved in recent years and how much? The children of the middle class were initiated to a precarious life, with a income worse than that of the parents, and in this the crisis had nothing to do with it: either it was a variation studied at the table or the ruling groups that led this country took him off the road, either by malice or by guilt. It must be said, however, that in recent years those who have been close to politics have not been damaged. We know from the agencies that the government has chosen to put the question of trust on this other masterpiece. There is, today, a problem, not for us, that we already consider this Government dangerous because we consider it irresponsible, but for the colleagues of the majority, who share with us the opposition to the jobs act, but who feel bound by a pact of loyalty with their own party. At this point I ask myself a question: to whom should first loyalty go? To the ideas that led us to make politics or to a party that is traligning and no longer has any resemblance to its initial project? The answer, whatever it may be, comes from within and brings political consequences: please make them the best for our fellow citizens today and for those who will come. The rights that are now meant to be cashiers would not appear for free. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u57	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u58	Mr President, senators, representatives of the government, the urgency we feel is that of a country that can no longer wait, exhausted by too many years of crisis, by unbearable differences between those who, the vast majority of our society, have lost ground, wealth, chance of success and the few who have been able to advance away from rents, position and speculation. There are enormous inequalities - we know that - of income, but also of social protection and opportunities. I have no doubt what our part, our point of view should be. First of all, it must be that of the excluded, of those who are not in a position to assert their talent for themselves and others. We were told that we would live a liquid modernity and instead this is the time of the ghettos, of the insurmountable walls that prevent us from being the protagonist and to make ourselves valid to those who do not have by their good fortune, good birth and good family. In our country, what is by far the land of creativity, if you have a good idea or a good project but not a capital or a heritage you find almost no one willing to finance it. Ours is the country in which businesses, especially small artisans, linked to territorial communities, are among the most taxed in Europe, while taxes on financial incomes are among the lowest. Well, the government, with last year's IRPEF decree, has reduced IRAP, a tax that affects mainly companies that want to grow, and to do so by finding cover from the levy on financial transitions. The problem is here: to choose who to stay with; to force the issue of new exclusion at the heart of the political agenda and, therefore, the issue of inclusion for those who do not have a job or have it in black or is precarious. There are workers who are never mentioned, like those who have VAT matches, who hide subordinate work without any protection, such as university teachers, the exploited of the economy or the cognitive economy. There is an unbearable cost to our democracy that takes away credibility from politics and institutions. It is the amount of vital energy that is wasted, unused and unable to express its potential on the constitutive ground of citizenship, on the ground of work. Today, in our country and in our Europe, millions live this condition, which is dramatic, of childhood and subalternity and which is also a condition of existential failure, because it is intolerable for those who are forced to close a company to which they have dedicated all the years of their lives, just as it is unsustainable to lose employment for those who are fifty years old and do not have the tools to start again and get back into play. It is mortifying to be twenty-five or thirty years old and to live intermittently with collaboration contracts of a few months in a vicious circuit of precariousness and unemployment, which feed on each other, without voice, without rights, without protection and without the possibility of mature retirement. That's why it's time to change. It is time for politics to stand on this side, on the side of those who do not have a job, or of those who have a precarious job. It is time to rebuild around them a welfare system that is universal, capable of innovation and social inclusion, both together, because innovation without inclusion does not go anywhere and risks worsening the crisis. Moreover, we still have the legacy of these twenty years of so-called second Republic which have been bankrupt and which have burned huge expectations. The decisive imprinting was when a contract legislation was adopted that introduced a lot of atypical work. Around that work we did not put a new system of universal protections, forcing so many workers to the rank of poor workers, without union or political representation. The weight of the crisis in recent years has been thrown entirely on the workers. I remember well 2008 when the government of the right, just resettled, canceled, with a sponge stroke, the instruments against the resignation in white, leaving a flood of workers and, above all, workers at the mercy of a shameful practice of feudal style. This is the urgent need to intervene, to close a cycle and to lay the foundations for restarting. And among the guidelines of this delegation law, thanks above all to the work of the Democratic Party Group, there is a rule that prevents the resignation in white. It is a reconquest on which to rebuild also a pact for the job and for its civilization. This is the discontinuity that the Renzi Government must be able to give to the many who asked for change on May 25. There was in that vote a demand for protagonism, emancipation, but also for protection and protection. There was a time when there was a job and he was carrying it all his life. Then came the great transformation of globalization, of the digital revolution, of the international division of the labour market. That model is finished and another one has arrived: asymmetrical, segmented and, above all, marked by a structural precariousness. Discontinuity is to stop pretending that this has not happened, and to deal with the fact that this new model has caused loss of the social value of work, of the role of workers and widespread resentment towards politics. Discontinuity is to clean up, secure, rewrite this model, extending protections and rights, without removing them to those who do not have them, reaching a universal allowance for the reintegration of work and education, which reform social shock absorbers as a whole. Extend maternity, the right to figurative contributions, have specialized employment services in Italy. In short, a functioning work system, based on quality and merit. This address is on the trail of the proxy. Now it is up to us and the government to emerge and become shaken by a mechanism of equity and competitiveness. Here, Minister, there is the constituent feature of a government that on this ground, even before that of constitutional reforms, can rewrite a republican and citizenship pact, giving solid foundations and social background to the third Republic that we want to build. Here is the opportunity for delegation, which is a great opportunity to strengthen and strengthen the trust of many, which is indispensable to share and to realize hope. That's why I'm saying, trouble making mistakes! Woe to commit false steps that could render the provision useless or even harmful. That is why it is important to listen, first and foremost to the social partners. That is why the meeting was important this morning. Because we must renew and re-establish representation, not demolish it. That is why some content needs to be strengthened and specified. Here is the significance of three amendments that I have tabled together with many colleagues, who insist on three key points of this reform of ours. The first is the simplification of contracts, the deforestation of too many atypical contracts; and, on the basis of this, giving the contract indefinitely the prevalence it deserves, making it the pivot of the new system, so that it is beneficial, economically and fiscally, for workers and entrepreneurs. In addition, make sure that demand does not penalise workers, but is the result of agreements in companies. In the same way, very important attention must be paid to the specific issue of how to rethink the protections in the framework of the new insertion contract, strengthening the possibility of reinstatement in the event of discriminatory or disciplinary dismissal. Here there is a fundamental point, first of all, by making a right that today, very often, exists only on paper. We need to rewrite balanced, certain, simple rules that help companies (which today are very often forced to remain small) to grow in innovation and quality. This is a decisive battle to create jobs and jobs, to maintain the country and to the credibility of the government. But we will only grow again by creating jobs, creating the conditions of a system that attracts investment. This is why they delegate work and the law of stability (the law in which we will decide where to take the money and to whom to allocate it) are together, indissolubly: because they will serve cover for the new inclusive welfare, as well as commitments that have been made; because they will serve public support for investments that create work; because they will serve targeted and selective industrial policies. And then because it will serve to win in Europe the battle against austerity and the battle to put aside the fiscal compact; to realize those 300 billion investments that President Juncker promised on the basis of our solicitation; not to fail the second auction of the ECB, so that it does not enlarge the portfolios of government bonds, but meets the needs of work and gives oxygen to companies. All this means putting work back at the centre and has great significance for politics, for its autonomy, for the left and for its rooting. This is the challenge: what matters is that at the end of the journey, in the writing of the last of the decrees delegated, we can say that we have extended rights and safeguards to more workers than today, possibility of a good occupation to more people than today, without wars between the poor, standing on the side of the fathers and children, of those who work without hours, without cover in case of illness, without paid leave; on the side of the workers of the large multinational company unfairly fired for disciplinary reasons, on the side of the company that invests in quality and services and on the side who want a job worthy of his expectations. It is a difficult challenge, of course, but winning it is our task and I am convinced that we will succeed. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u59	Colleagues, I warn you that the request, signed by the prescribed number of senators, for the inclusion of a subject in our timetable, not for tomorrow morning's sitting, has been received, but obviously on the basis of the willingness which the Minister will give us. We'll discuss it at 8:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u60	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have listened with interest to the speech by Mr Verducci, to whom I acknowledge the intellectual honesty and conviction of his ideas. I invite him to turn around a little bit among the people, because perhaps the reforms that he appealed as feudal are just the ones that Italians today regret. Having said that, the only certainty we have in these hours, Minister, is that you and the Renzi Government are writing one of the darkest pages of democracy in the country. You have staged this comedy, a grotesque scene, in the hands of Italians, in spite of Parliament and democracy: that is the truth. You have the boldness, indeed the arrogance to ask for confidence in a provision on which you were in turn delegated. You're really clumsy. We wondered: where did all this haste come from to approve the delegation law on labour reform? Maybe Renzi wants to introduce himself to Milan tomorrow by the teacher Merkel and say: "Teacher, I did my homework". This will do. In fact, Mr Minister, Europe is in no hurry to hear the job act or to make the meeting (which is in fact relegated - that is clear - from a summit, even informal, to a conference), to make it clear that there is not much, on the contrary, there will be nothing in the decision-making plan, as we have seen in the two similar events that took place first in Berlin and then in Paris: moments of confrontation in which the twenty-eight countries of the European Union have produced nothing but good intentions, good words, but zero substance. Let me make one thing clear: we believe that tomorrow's meeting in Milan is announcing high tension, and not for work, not for that. The debate is likely to focus on flexibility, which was not on the agenda. By pulling away, France has launched an open challenge to German rigour and compliance with the rules, announcing that it will fall within the 3% parameter in the deficit-to-GDP ratio by 2017. The comparison, tomorrow, risks getting glowing, with Germany putting the stakes in the ECB's action for growth. We trust in the French revolutionary spirit - we are reduced to this, that it is clear! - and, in any case, we are also concerned about the statements made this afternoon by the President of the Bundesbank, Mr Weidmann, who said: 'No to monetary policy held hostage by policy'. Oh, but... Für mich es ist eine groβe Scheiβe, but I do not translate it, because we are in a protected time zone. I believe that we have all understood that at tomorrow's meeting in Milan, wanted in a solitary way by Italy, strong of the presidency in turn, the Premier will do everything to ensure that the conference does not appear an empty container and to come out with a blessing from the partners on his national work. This is the reason for the acceleration of the jobs act: to give meaning to life, to your political life. The approval of the partners to the reform of the work is obvious: what do you want Merkel, Holland, Van Rompuy and Barroso to say (also considering that the latter two are actually already emptying the drawers), in front of a Premier who will tell them that he has had a blank delegation from Parliament to make a reform of the work to scream? Good, good, go ahead and then come tell us what you have done and what results you have achieved! and they will laugh at it, according to our point of view. On this issue, ladies and gentlemen of the PD and others, we are in solidarity with the spirit of frustration that pervades you, because, despite you, you must support government action. I see frustration not so much about the substance - which can legitimately be divergent, there would be more - but about the method, which leaves us really perplexed. Then I have the following reflection: I wonder what would have happened if this attitude of the Government towards Parliament and this road had been proposed a few years ago by another Minister of Labour, whose name I do not mention (I just remember that he is President of a Region): full squares, threats and so on. Another thing that leaves us very perplexed is the attitude of the Head of State about the way in which the Government proves so arrogant and unscrupulous in asking for confidence in this measure. I remember the words of Napolitano, who, wandring MPs and senators, thundered: Too many omissions, failures and irresponsibility among political forces (...). Conveniences, tactics and instrumentalism have condemned to infertility or minimalistic results comparisons between political forces and debates in Parliament (...). If I find myself faced again with deafness like those against which I have fought in the past, I will not hesitate to draw the consequences before the country. Well, we cashed in, Mr. President of the Republic. Politics cashed in at that time, because maybe he was right. We would not like to disrespect you, but it seems to us that at this moment on the measure under consideration and also on the vote that sees the Senate meeting in common session with the House there are all the conditions to draw the consequences that you yourself referred to. If this is not the case, we will classify it as a silence-consensus, dear President of the Republic. And we want to believe the President of the Republic, who said a few minutes ago, in addition: "It is a bitter reflection for me that my repeated, objective and uninterested solicitations were not immediately worthwhile, so that no one could fail this essential proof of the sense of the institutions." Mr President, let us understand why at this point we no longer understand anything about this situation (and not just this). The real drama, in essence, is that when the country asks for a kidney stroke, the blow will be there. There will be a blow for the Italians, but it will be of a different kind. I can't read because we're still in a secure time zone. Since the beginning of the legislature, the North League has made concrete proposals to give a decisive boost to the world of work. All too often, however, Minister, our political side is hastily and biasedly labeled by our political opponents as a political force which, in a selfish way, only wants to penalise the Mezzogiorno for the benefit of the North. Bullshit. That's bullshit. We have made the serious proposals, in a serious and sensible way. Minister, as far as labour costs are concerned, taxes must be lowered. I bring you the example of the Provinces and the Border Regions with the Swiss Confederation, with the Canton Ticino, which is attractive from the point of view of taxes because there the tax pressure varies between 20 and - at most - 25 percent. For Lombardy, Piedmont and the Border Provinces, this has become a system to desert everything we have built in 100 years. That's not good. Minister, we have also made concrete proposals on the issue of the tax wedge, which have not been heard. Then there is the question of justice in work. Who can ever come to invest in our country if to face a small problem finds the disaster of the world of justice and gets scared? How do you propose to a German, French or Swiss (not least) to come to Italy to invest, given the situation of labour justice? They're running away. To open a VAT number and start a company in our country there are red tape to carry out that takes weeks and months of work, when our competitors, even outside Europe, that I mentioned before, do everything by e-mail in ten minutes, a quarter of an hour and are in place with justice, with technical-formal issues in the field of work. You probably don't even know these things and you haven't even considered them. The truth is, Minister, that in border areas we have gone from 30,000 cross-border workers to 64,000. There will be a reason if the situation is over in this way. Our proposals, as I said, have not even been taken into account, not because of a legitimate and democratic diversity of views, but because of a democratic vice, which, in fact, has silenced the democratic confrontation, making it sterile and - worse still - mortifying for those who have to do so. The dramatic situation in the country requires that we wait no longer. The slogan time is over. Smoky politics has come to the end of the line. I feel like I've been through this before, which reminds me of the Monti era. This is a strange country, because from the stars you can end up in the stables and find yourself full of something I can't say, given the time. Mr President, that is the truth. I'm trying to decompress, but maybe you haven't quite understood the drama of this moment. I repeat: this Government has not understood the dramatic nature of the work in our country. I shall conclude by giving a political reflection which is a wish for the Italians: day after day, standing among the people and their problems as we do, it becomes increasingly evident that, by thinning the smoke you produced, the Italians will have understood and, dear President of the Council, we have the feeling that they will invite you to stay calm. We'll talk about it again, but I'm convinced that's gonna be the story. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u62	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u63	I would like to inform the Assembly that a second request for inclusion has been received, not on the agenda of the next sitting, but on the timetable for the current session, of an urgent statement by the Minister of Health on precautionary measures in the first case of ebola in Europe. I propose that we explain the two requests for inclusion of the items not planned, and vote on them not before 8 p.m., as announced. Since there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u66	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, with the necessary number of subscribers, we have presented as a 5 Star Movement parliamentary group, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for the urgent hearing of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano, to be included in the planned timetable for the work of the Chamber already approved and in force until 16 of the current month, so that we can be informed of events which have occurred and are urgent concerning the lack of the images recorded by the surveillance cameras placed within the office of the Prosecutor General of the Court of Appeal of Palermo, Dr Roberto Scarpinato, on the days when the intimidating message was delivered to his offices to the detriment of the magistrate himself. The request is made for the availability of Mr Alfano to be verified and for his information to be included in the current calendar of weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we too have tabled a request under Article 55 for urgent information to be included in the timetable by the Minister for Health on the question of the possibility of ebola virus infection. While experts only a few days ago said that the chances of infection in Europe were very low, there was the first case. Countries such as Spain, for example, were not included in the assessments, but countries such as Great Britain, which recorded a frequency of air travel and exchanges with West Africa much higher than in other countries and instead there was the first case in Spain, it is possible that there is a second one and there are three other suspicious admissions. Mr President, I think there should be information from the Minister for Health, so that he comes here to report on all the preventive measures that have been put in place before there is a climate of alarm that can be very worrying, as we have seen in the past, and also create very serious problems. By the way, Brussels is asking Spain and all other countries for explanations. We hope that the reference center, which for Italy is the hospital Spallanzani, is putting in place all the protocols. However, I believe that it is absolutely necessary for the Minister to come and report, in order to give certain news and to prevent the spread of an alarm that could also be very serious, with consequences from a social point of view not indifferent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u70	So there is a request for urgent information from Minister Alfano and a request from Minister Lorenzin. It is clear that where this request is to be approved, its inclusion in the timetable is conditional on the Minister's willingness to report. Colleagues, I remind you that a Senator per group may speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u73	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, my Group has signed Mr De Petris' request. The President-in-Office of the Council has decided that tomorrow we will have to vote on a trust that will either take up or leave it, and it seems that there is a bit of a disturbance in our ranks too. Only today have we had scientific news of how, for example, the Ebola virus is transmitted. Having a minister to come and reassure Parliament with some more information is very important. Until yesterday we didn't even know the mode of transmission. Fortunately, we know that it is not transmitted by air, but only by organic liquids or contact with them. However, this was not an institutional report, but a general report. My Group therefore supports Mr De Petris' request to have the Minister here as soon as possible to make information available and to give assurances not only to the House but to the whole country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u74	There are no other requests for intervention. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly of an information report by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano, on the events which have occurred and which are urgent concerning the lack of the images recorded by the surveillance cameras placed within the office of the Attorney General of the Court of Appeal of Palermo, Dr Roberto Scarpinato, on the day on which the missive intimidation was delivered against the aforementioned magistrate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u75	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u76	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.59 p.m. and resumed at 8.19 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u77	The session is resumed. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly an information of the Minister of the Interior, made by Senator Petrocelli. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, that's not gonna happen. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, I hear many times that the doors were open. During the vote with a show of hands, the doors must remain open, under penalty of kidnapping. [[Applause.]] After that, if there is a chance of doing the counter-test, we do it, since we have another vote, but we cannot deny the evidence. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to include an urgent statement by Senator De Petris of the Minister for Health in the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u78	Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u79	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, I'll take the session off.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-325.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, October 8, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.22 p.m.
