ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u4	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u10	CHITI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor at the beginning of the sitting to make a reflection and make a proposal, as well as to make an assessment, in my own seat, that is, in the Senate Chamber; I anticipated a few points last night in a statement so that it was not lived by my fellow Members as, so to speak, a lightning strike, but this is the place where to move forward and consider it. It is not a new proposal, in the sense that on other important occasions we have found ourselves practicing it; it is not only the result of my evaluation - or if you want one of my thoughts - because there has been a sharing with my fellow senators who are part of the majority, but there have also been some exchanges of views with other colleagues who share some points of reflection on the constitutional reform that is being discussed. This proposal is a matter of concern, which I am convinced is shared without exception between us: a constitutional reform is not achieved in a climate of such exasperated contrasts, of wall against wall, of frontal contrasts. A reform of the Constitution, in fact, is not just a set of votes, amendments or articles; before that it is a capacity for listening, dialogue and mutual respect because we are moving around an issue that is what holds our differences. Political differences can be maintained if there is a sharing of some common rules and approaches between citizens. Otherwise, if we fail to stop this climate, I am convinced that the outcome can not only be a tearing down of political relations in Parliament (which is certainly never positive, not even between majority and opposition or even in a cross-cutting way), but also the blocking of normal legislative activity, which is not acceptable for those who support the government, nor for those who place themselves in opposition. In fact, the country, the relationship with the citizens, the same minimal but elementary understanding of what is being accomplished here, which is always decisive in the life of a democracy, but which today assumes a central importance to which none of us can escape, since the relationship of trust with the citizens is largely to be reconstructed. It must be made clear at every step we take, at every act we take within Parliament. In this context of exaggerated contrasts, of the absence of a constituent climate, the reasons for both those who support the reform and those who propose even profound changes are lost (as you know, they are among those who continue to propose even profound changes); the reasons of both are lost. I believe that those who hold roles of majority and government must feel even more obliged to commit themselves to determining a climate of civil and constructive confrontation. These are unwritten rules which, however, are vital in a democracy. With thousands of amendments and announcements of leghold traps, which are hard to do, what I think is likely to be a confusing confrontation, not a climate that will allow for a high debate, responsible decisions, as requested when discussing issues of updating the Constitution because the Constitution is not a way of saying, it is not rhetorical. The Constitution, indeed, belongs not to the MPs or governments in office but to the Italian citizens. My proposal, the proposal shared with colleagues who support the majority of the government at least and which - I repeat - has nothing new because it simply relies on the sense of responsibility that exists in each of us, is to focus the debate on the major issues that support the reform project. I have tried to enucleate them from my point of view, it is not said that they are these or that they are formulated as follows: the way in which senators are elected; the number of Members, the immunities, the election of the President of the Republic and the guarantee institutions that must be safeguarded; the powers of the Senate in relation to certain fundamental rights of citizens or to bioethics; the referendum and the laws of popular initiative; the division of competences between the central state and the regions. Of course, I do not ask - and I could not do so with myself - to give up one's beliefs, or to those who believe that this reform is already well-acquired and fair, or to those who think they are making proposals for change. The proposal is not to disperse into thousands of amendments, often similar to one another, but to use the time available before the summer break, set after 8 August (when the Conference of Parents could also decide to examine issues that will be identified and shared), to illustrate, on the basis of the fundamental amendments, the positions motivating them and then receive the answers from the rapporteurs, if they consider it appropriate to give them. The rapporteurs have an important role to play as they can propose rewordings, make evaluations. If that is not the case, we will give up the dialogue between us, the exchange of information, and we will confine ourselves to a plethora of very brief illustrations and a list of opinions which could be imagined. After a discussion with the rapporteurs and with the Government itself, we would then proceed to vote on the amendments which were retained because they were considered fundamental. Let us be serious: the fundamental amendments to each of the themes that will be identified may be some tens not several hundred, for each of the essential issues. The articles of the Reform Act would therefore be voted on and the final explanations of vote and the final vote would take place on the first week of September. What is behind this solicitation and this last consideration? Nothing secret. Nothing non-transparent. I think that mediations in the light of the sun that take into account non-arbitrary needs and allow a climate of political civilization are not a legacy of the past, of a policy that is defined as old, mocked as compromise. Count the credit. Comparison and timing of decisions, constructive dialogue and capacity to take responsibility for a choice can and must stand in balance, not in antithesis all the more on the Constitution, on what we define common rules of our democracy. This solicitation is also based on the need to reflect and try to put our comparison back on the right track and above all on an assessment that seems clear to me and that I consider proven by the comparison that has been there in recent months. We are not one of those who wants reform and who does not want to proceed to it or to update our Constitution. There are different ideas among us on how to overcome equal bicameralism, reduce the total number of parliamentarians and make our institutions work more effectively. Among us there are different assessments of how in 2014 popular sovereignty wants to express itself in the life of the Republic, but this is what it is about. Well, if this is the case, no one - in my sincere opinion - can assume the responsibility of sending a completely opposite message, namely that there are those who do not want the reform and assume only the idea of a blockade. I do not know whether the comparison here, now or at a later stage, will bring together or at least bring closer to those different convictions which I have referred to. However, it seems to me useful for democracy not to degrade the differences in factions and not to give the impression, beyond the intentions, but to represent those same differences in a debate that respects the different positions, especially when they are alternatives. Finally, we come to the last point I wish to make, because it seems important to me and I have recorded it as such. The Government has opened up something that has been decisive for me since the very beginning - in fact, we have placed it right from the start - and on which I have insisted also on the intervention carried out in general discussion. The last word will be and must be of the citizens through the referendum confirmation and we will have to establish the instruments - and I say from now on that those possible are only political - for it to take place. In this respect, I have the feeling that the explanations of vote and the final vote will take place in the first week of September, not in other ways. Whatever the pronunciation of this reform, I think it is everyone's interest to allow citizens to perceive the seriousness of the work and of the parliamentary confrontation and to have correct information, attention and conscious participation: it will be theirs, in fact, according to the various motivations and beliefs, at the time of the confirmed referendum, to say the last word on this reform. That, Mr President, is the meaning of the proposal that I have tabled - or rather, that I have tried to put forward - and I repeat that I have not done so solely on my behalf. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI, SCPI, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u13	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have listened very carefully to Senator Chiti's speech, which I believe is also of particular importance in this debate and which would not have been possible if, in recent months, all of us, even when different opinions were expressed, had not always remained that thread of connection and attention to the general interest, which we have always tried to guarantee and maintain. I must say that I share the concerns expressed by Senator Chiti: the concerns for a debate that would start in an unreasonable confrontation, for a debate that would eliminate constructive confrontation and stand in a wall against a wall. I also share the concerns about the political and parliamentary effects that such a debate could cause, or I fear it would certainly cause, consequences of the strengthening of political relations between us and outside us; consequences on the progress of parliamentary activity, and not only, in relation to the very important constitutional reforms that we are now examining. I agree - and I have already said this on several occasions - with the fall of Senator Chiti's speech, namely the need for the debate to return to focus on the major issues which are the subject of the amendment of our Constitution and that the comparison may also be between different opinions - on some radically different points - but be done in a constituent spirit, that is, with the will to listen, knowing that in the end democracy allows only one method of choice, which is the vote and the definition of majorities and minorities. This is the only method that democracy knows. Of course, in order for this objective to somehow find a point of parliamentary fall, we need a thorough review of the amending policy - I call it that - which is what chaired the first phase. Therefore, we must go in the direction of a very substantial reduction in the amendments, in accordance with the spirit and indications now expressed by Senator Chiti and according to an organization of the work that we will naturally define in the place where this must be done, but which will certainly be inspired by the indications of Senator Chiti himself. As you can see, we are dealing with a reform that will define the constitutional arrangements of our country and will probably affect for decades the conduct of legislative activity, and not only. That is the reason why we need a frank debate, but also a debate on ideas and proposals, without the excitement to which we would certainly and necessarily be led if we were to examine, discuss and vote on the amendments in the number in which they were tabled today. There is, of course - let us not forget, we cannot forget this, Senator Chiti also referred to it - a time problem, made necessary by the importance of the issues and the timetable, and I would say also confirmed by the same timetable approved in the Group leaders and by this House by a large majority. I think we should feel committed to this timetable, so I respectfully welcome Senator Chiti's suggestion that the vote should end, however, by 8 August as calendar day. This is possible, and it is possible to organize our work so that it may be so. Then, if the final explanations of vote were to go to the first days of September, I would not consider it a traumatic element. Of course, this approach requires general sharing on the part of all of us and, always on the part of all of us, an appreciation of the concerns that Senator Chiti has mentioned so far, to which I also refer, asking the House for a complete and consistent indication, without which everything would become much more difficult. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u16	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, as a result of this speech, which preceded me by Senator Chiti as the Holding Company of the Per l'Italia Group, we can only welcome the proposal put to our attention. It is an invitation, therefore, that is also accepted because in this way we give the opportunity to build a debate that, although opposed to arguments on some articles, certainly becomes cooperative and so, as an adjective of its own, a constituent debate. In fact, the debate will rightly focus on some issues that can really be defined as problematic, amended (to use a sufficiently current expression) from everything that obviously did not have any truly amending purpose, but had an opposing purpose according to the instruments that Parliament allows. It is clear that, through the presentation of ideas and proposals, the possibility will be given to recompose those rights, which belong to the majority, with those that are equally proper to the minority or the opposition. I also welcome, on behalf of the Group, the concrete possibility of being able to carry out the debate by 8 August, on the understanding that the possibility, as Senator Chiti suggested, of making explanations of vote, with a final vote, at the resumption of parliamentary work can remain. Today, in the context of the ongoing debate, there is certainly a favourable point, because in this way we give the opportunity to really focus on sensitive, constituent issues, on which to give time and space, limited to the timetable set, in order to really build a reform that then gives meaning to the action of Parliament, in particular of the Senate, and not only in the years to come. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u19	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank President Chiti for the sensitivity he has shown in the previous speech. I thank him because what he has said in this House today is a common feeling. We read it in the press, we talked about it in the corridors, but I believe that dealing with the debate in this House is a courageous act, on one hand, but also a necessary clarification that is due to the whole of this House. I am not saying this to claim paternity, but already from our first speeches, already in my speech in general discussion, I had represented that, apart from the improvements that had been made in the Commission (and I feel I must thank the Government here, but above all the two rapporteurs, President Finocchiaro and President Calderoli), a great effort has been made, but it was not a definitive effort. There were more groups, but also colleagues who belonged to some groups, who had positions that were still to be discussed, evaluated, supported, analyzed, de-carnified. In fact, we are talking about a constitutional reform that is supposed to have a value of 10, 15 or 20 years, I hope as long as possible, because the longer it stays, the more it means that we have done a positive job. Wow if the reform were to be implemented and, within one or two legislatures, those who come after us would put their hand in it. I do not think this is a wish that we should set ourselves. In fact, the effort of these hours must be aimed at discussing those points that President Chiti has pointed out and that see us to a large extent at his side. I believe, however, that the government and the two rapporteurs must make the greatest effort. We cannot move forward with the discussion of 8,000 amendments; it is not serious, it is not dignified. I believe that it hurts not only us, but above all those outside, who look at us and of this reform - I have to tell you the truth - not yet. It is up to us to make him understand the benefit of our work and I believe that the show we have given so far is not positive. I say this by assuming, first and foremost, the responsibility for what I say. We must return to the serious issues, we must return to those four or five points which still deserve serious and constructive deepening. The government has stated in the press that it is willing to see improvements. Then, perhaps, in the time we have left - it is a request that I make to all my colleagues, including those of my Group - we need to review what are the amendments that we really want to talk about and discuss. When I read that the House of Deputies should be called "Gilda" or "Duma" I think it would be a good sign if those who signed those amendments were to withdraw them immediately. So let's focus exclusively on the parts that still deserve further study. We have already said that there is a referendum; I agree with President Chiti when he says that the last word will be for the people. It seems to me that the government has largely joined; so let's do it right away because that would calm many of us. Then there are the other passages. Certainly not everything President Chiti asked for can be accepted by the speakers and the Government, also because there is an agreement. It is useless to say: the Nazarene still represents a point of reference that we cannot and must not scratch at all. I shall conclude, Mr President. The good thing is that this constitutional reform is not only done by the majority in government but by the majority in government and all those who believe that both constitutional reform and electoral law should be revised. This is a big step forward and I believe that we must applaud President Renzi, who had the intuition to sit the leader of the opposition. I believe that this is a new and positive fact and an opportunity - which we cannot miss - that will have to see the vast majority of senators converge on the points that deserve further and definitive deepening, even if so much has already been done. Perhaps the length of time that President Chiti asks for, which I think is also in the ranks of colleagues who have preceded me, could be a good way to calm this climate. In fact - I am opening and closing a parenthesis, Mr President - to bring the Bureau together for the secret vote and to bring together the Conference of Leaders for leghold traps, kangaroo and so on is not a good thing. Constitutional reform needs to be discussed and it is clear that we need a moral suasion against those who, for example, have tabled 6,000 amendments. However, it is not with the trap system that we can avoid what a Group, legitimately, believes to do. I hope that these hours have served everyone to review their positions, which are to focus on serious matters (because there are still so many serious things to deal with in this measure), eliminating all those things that really make us say, outside this House, that we are wasting time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u22	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, the New Right Centre has always had two points of reference in its political and parliamentary action. One is that of the need for the reform of the Senate and the related one of the relationship between the State, Regions and local self-governments. I would like to say the need for reform itself, because, after so long awaiting it, it is a fundamental tool for bringing citizens back to their institutions. The other point is that this reform must necessarily be placed on a public policy agenda that does not allow it to be postponed until September, because, in September, as we have repeatedly mentioned, we will have to complete institutional reforms with the essential electoral law and, at the same time, we will have to devote ourselves above all to economic reforms. Mr Chiti's proposal is in this context - on the contrary, it contributes - because the final vote on 2 September certainly allows a reform to which we give that meaning so essential for the recomposition of the nation after so many processes of disintegration and because it allows us to commit September, as we have said, to the essential objectives above all of economic policy. This proposal, however, makes sense if it finds a broad consensus; it only makes sense if everyone agrees with it. The method proposed correctly by my colleague, Mr Chiti (the method of focusing attention on the points of correction of the text adopted by the Commission which are proposed by the individual groups) only makes sense if it is implemented. Therefore, I think that, if Mr Chiti did well to put his proposal, transparently, in the debate in this House, it is then appropriate for each of the Groups to speak and to speak on this working hypothesis, with the aim of making the reform soon and we would say well, in the sense of concentrating as much as possible the time we have available on those contents which are considered to be more direct in the process of examination than of the reform itself. We are therefore available and very happy to contribute to everything that can contribute to achieving this goal: to do quickly, to do well. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u25	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, I fully agree with the premise put forward by President Chiti. How can we not want a full, conscious and thoughtful parliamentary debate? How can we fail to discuss matters that are so important for the next decades of our Republic's life, free from conditioning, narrow limits and snares that derive from choices and positions that even take place outside this Parliament? Therefore, on the part of the LAG Group there is full sharing in a change of path, of attitude, but also in a change of mood and - let me say the loud word - of propaganda. The reasoning carried out today by President Chiti belongs both to the Parliamentary Assembly and to the Government; it is a full, clear reasoning: let's end with this almost muscular test to show the country whether the government's action on Parliament is stronger or whether Parliament's action can strongly influence that of the Government. A clear debate - and here I see three Renzi government ministers represented - aimed at involving this area. The muscle tests were attempted on both sides: a government propaganda that aimed to show Parliament's House as a conservative, resistant to change, as an expression of the will not to close with the past to open splendid windows on a bright future; on the other hand, an action to defend this House with the submission of thousands of amendments; these, we know, President Chiti, are not all essential for the reform (my Group represented almost 1000 of them) but they are part of an action that legitimately Parliament has put in place compared to those who had a vision of constitutional reforms a bit too dirigistic, a bit too similar to a practice of ordinary administration of the government of the nation. Therefore, in giving the LAG Group full availability to a new climate, taking a concrete, active and active part in the discussion of the fundamental issues of constitutional reform, I stress that there are amendments that have different body and intensity and there are key issues - some of which we recognise as such - which must have the possibility of a serious, broad debate, which can be independent of the constraints of belonging and the image of a muscular struggle between groups. We certainly adhere to this. We are not in a position to say what the time is and we cannot go into the matter - indeed, there are bodies called upon to regulate the life of this House - but we want to see the game, if you will allow me this terminology, the cards of all the players interested in this game. This is a fact that we feel absolutely necessary. I should like to end by thanking President Chiti, who certainly did not take this initiative to settle fraternal disputes within his party. I do not think that the position expressed today by President Chiti is instrumental in stitching internal political oppositions. I think it is a very useful position, if we can grasp it in the right spirit, for further parliamentary action in favour of the constitutional reforms of our country. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u28	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, very few words because I am speaking on behalf of a group which has tabled no more than a dozen amendments, although there are many more aspects that we would like to change. Any proposal that allows us to discuss the subject rather than individual flags of one part or another and thus to make our work more dignified and useful, we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u31	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would especially like to thank Senator Chiti, for the spirit that inspired his speech and for the concern that he felt in his words, because I believe that we all realize what a crossroads we are at or at least should be aware of. All of us were candidates last year in the political elections, promising deep reforms to the Italians. This has united both those who today support this majority and those who were candidates for the opposition of the great groups, like us, who had ruled this country; but above all it has also characterized the position of those who, as I have mentioned in recent days, on the inconclusion of politics, on the protest and on the reasons for the non-reform had built their strong parliamentary representation. Well, the moment comes when in this being profoundly different in the solution of the problem and in the indication of the paths on which to govern and guide the Italian people there must be at least the sharing of a spirit that is truly of change, that cannot be characterized, as it has been in recent weeks, by the accusation to the Government and the majority of wanting to overwhelm and wanting to give an authoritarian turn to the institutions of the country. Today, from the very inside of the majority, even some voices that had been critical of the initiative of the Government and the majority take charge of understanding that that bow of accusation to the President of the Council, the Government, the majority parties and the great political forces that support it, of wanting to give an authoritarian turn was wrong. And then we must start from here, that is, from recognizing the mutual good faith in finally wanting to change the Republic in order to enter concretely in the second Republic, overcoming that way of correcting the behaviors (which then become material Constitution and sometimes violence on the formal Constitution) that we have seen in recent years, which is the result of the fact that we did not know or did not want - or who was there did not know or wanted - formally change also some parts of the essential Constitution. We believe that this first strong change of the Constitution still has empty holes. We still have to understand the form of government and we already know that with electoral reform we will not solve some problems of governance and representativeness in a consistent way to the constitutional design, which is still the result of mediation and compromise with respect to the objectives we set ourselves. However, precisely because we have to give signs of change, we believe that the stakes originally indicated in the draft government law, then substantially corrected by the work of the Commission, must be the pillar on which to reach consensus, but at the same time giving the availability, which the majority must also give, to be able to modify and correct, discussing it in this House, in the light of the sun, according to the proposed timetables, in order to find a shared solution. I am referring to issues that are still open, which are important to give greater serenity to those who are strongly critical of the reform; issues that concern the way in which the President of the Republic is elected and the audience that will elect the President of the Republic or the constitutional guarantee bodies, the issue of the final referendum that, I remind you, we had already voted last year when amending Article 138 of the Constitution, when we had imagined a different path of constitutional reform that had obtained a two-thirds majority in this House. In short, there is the possibility, on the one hand, of demonstrating that the architecture we have imagined for what really has to be the second Republic is not changed and, on the other hand, of saying that on the solution of the issues that can become a ground for comparison, of course, there has been a majority but they are not the product of a logic of confrontation between the winners and the winners, which certainly would not do well for the continuation of the democratic history of this country. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u34	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are at a time when I already hear the sounds of trumpets from someone singing victory with reference to what seemed to be parliamentary obstructionism: we stopped parliamentary obstruction; finally, parliamentary obstruction realized that it had to take a step back. This is not the case; first of all because there has never been parliamentary obstructionism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We have been talking about content for weeks; it is not with Senator Chiti's intervention that we start talking about content. We have been putting constructive proposals on the government's table for weeks, to which we are waiting for answers, and so far, colleagues, the answers have not yet arrived. If, as the previous speaker rightly said, we are at a crossroads and there is a draft path that we are about to take trying to go in a certain direction, before we go in that direction we want answers, because without concrete and serious answers I stand still at the crossroads to decide where to go. Do not sing victory; do not think that we have withdrawn the amendments. I can already imagine tomorrow the President-in-Office's big face with statements like: I won; the bad guys and the bad guys withdrew the amendments and I was good and I held on to it. It's not like that. I want the face of the President-in-Office of the Council on the front page who says he wants to sit at the table and think about the future of the Italian Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Mussini]] Otherwise, we're not even leaving. President-in-Office of the Council, if not, I also give up my leave. President of the Council, I cancel my holiday reservations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]] Don't sing victory. There is little time for the President to start the fireworks because an agreement has been reached. There's no deal. We want concrete proposals; we finally want concrete answers - perhaps - and then we will decide on the path. If not, thank you and goodbye. Above all, I was afraid of a passage from Senator Bruno's speech when he reminded the Democratic Party and the President-in-Office of the Council that there is the Nazarene Pact from which we cannot deviate. Let's put it all on the table at this point and do it in the light of day. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Otherwise, we move forward without problems: there are those who think of the method, those who want reforms like us, those who want to make concrete proposals and those who want to go to the fight; there are those who want to talk about alternatives to the proposals of this Government, instead of the majority of the Government, and those who will continue to say that we are "cadregari." I am not; the League Group is not made of "cadregari." I think there aren't any in this senate of cadregars. There are colleagues who have made concrete proposals, who should have had an answer and who have not yet received it. One step has been taken, but the path has yet to begin. We look forward to concrete answers from the President-in-Office of the Council on the telephone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u37	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, what Senator Chiti is asking for is virtually a mixture of what has emerged in recent days from the debate in this House. My Group, with the tabling of 200 amendments, has raised a very simple question: we do not recognise ourselves in the constitutional reform as it was written by Renzi and Boschi. And by rewinding the tape backwards for a moment, we do not recognize ourselves in the path that led to the bill Boschi. We did not recognize ourselves in the identification of the essays, we did not recognize ourselves in what former minister Quagliariello did, a volume that described the path that led us to this bill. We have been excluded from that path, although it is the country's second political force. In the so-called group of essays we did not have a representative of the demands that came from millions of citizens who had voted for the 5 Star Movement. Today we have feared a danger for our country and this signal we do not want to withdraw. We are willing to discuss the issues on the subject from the first moment, but we are afraid of the path that Senator Zanda, however, wants to impose from the top of his majority on these reforms. Senator Zanda gave an indication, at the last Conference of the Leaders, that there were a few hundred acceptable amendments and I regret to have to acknowledge in Chiti's proposal a substantial adherence to the idea that Mr Zanda has of the correct parliamentary dialectics. We have 200; we do not withdraw one, we will not withdraw one. We are prepared to continue with the current timetable and to work seriously on all our amendments, which we will support until the end, from 9.30 a.m. to 24 p.m. today and until 8 August. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is not a question of the seriousness of parliamentary work, it is a question of the difficulty of the stakes that the same majority has put to this debate, from the first moment, by rewinding the tape, with the essays, at the last moment, today, where perhaps there is a real difficulty in the majority to hold up the normal work of the House, which they themselves voted in the group leader, from 9.30 a.m. to 24. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The 5 Star Movement Group did not back down from the first moment, it will carry forward what was decided in that Group Leader with majority voting. Well, we are ready to support the debate in this House, but do not do as most of the press has already done, which had already taken up the proposals made by Senator Chiti yesterday evening, which are certainly positive from the point of view of comparison, but they are not positive from the point of view of overcoming the blockade that exists in the dialectic on this bill, which is a block that comes from afar, from not having brought into the confrontation, at the time when the President of the Republic appointed the wise men, the voice of 25% of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And so, Mr Zanda (I am addressing you above all, because it is you who launched the stone of a few hundred amendments), our hundred amendments from here do not move: we will also work at night, because it is not possible to close 8 August, as you confirmed today, and postpone the final vote only to 2 September, when there would essentially be a blackout period. We might as well vote on August 9th, because there would be holidays in the middle. Then where is the period of reflection he would also need, and which he needed months ago, this reform? It is not the reform in which we recognize ourselves. All right, for the parliamentary dialectic, we are "constricted" to deal with it with the amendments and we will do so with our 200 proposals for amendments, and they are certainly not the ones that need to be withdrawn with this type of approach. So let us go, if necessary, to the Conference of the Leaders. However, we will defend the timetable for dealing with what is to be dealt with even with hard working hours. That's what we're paid for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we clearly understand the spirit of Senator Chiti's intervention, that of a Senate that has a serious debate, as we have long argued, which concerns a non-trivial passage about the future constitutional structure of our country. We also understand Senator Chiti's call on the issues of merit and on this point I would like to be very clear: the issues of merit we have always put in the initial seat, that is, in the Commission, with punctuality and with hope (because each of us always has confidence in the parliamentary dialectic) that within the Commission, in the dialectic between different and all legitimate positions, we could find more advanced points. Therefore, we have transferred the substantive issues to the amendments. I would like to point out that as far as we are concerned there are no imaginative amendments or mocking amendments, as someone has written. Sorry the Minister smiles, there's no smile. I challenge you to find, as far as we are concerned, a mocking amendment. [[Comments in the Chamber]] And precisely because it is about merit and we have faith in dialectic, I would like to say something very clearly. I read that Renzi said that if the problem is one more week, it can also be done. Well, for us the problem is not an extra week, I say it very clearly. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] For us the question is of high mediation. I wonder whether this House is in a position (and, of course, we are prepared to do so) to enter into this matter. I believe that the wall against the wall is overcome with the ability to have the concrete opportunity to discuss the issues that are known to all. It is not a question of having general answers, but of having high mediation precisely because we are dealing with constitutional reform. I don't have to worry about having an extra week. This is only about the ability of this House to get into the substance and to reach uncrystallised positions. The dialectic, in fact, is not the crystallization of positions that confront and clash, but it is the ability to take steps forward and - I stress - also in the light of the sun. Of course, here we always have a stone party on which it is good that once and for all clarity is made, otherwise none of us understand who is able to change or accommodate different positions. And the stone feast, which was recalled a while ago also in the intervention of Senator Bruno, is the Nazarene's covenant. Can we face this debate without ever understanding who in this House is now able - if the leader of the majority party, if the opposition party, if that of the other oppositions - to reach positions that exceed those crystallized because there is always a call to this blessed pact? I asked to acquire it in the course of the Commission's work. If we were still in the Commission, I would ask for Berlusconi's hearing because perhaps we would be able to have more clarity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] And I certainly would not have mentioned it if there had not been an explicit reminder here. Instead, I think that everyone in this House should make a pact: to be free. Everyone free (the Government, the majority, the opposition) to be able to confront himself on the positions and, in the merit of the positions, find the possibility to take a step forward. This is the work we have done all these days, in these weeks in the Commission. I repeat that for our part there is a very wide availability, if you really want to get into the matter, discuss, make proposals with the possibility of making changes. We do not consider it interesting to grant another week because, as far as we are concerned, we can work until 8, 9, until 10. The point is not an extra week, but merit. We want to understand whether this House reaffirms the fact that we really want to make progress and that we want to do those high mediations, which Senator Chiti mentioned. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Munerato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u43	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, it seems to me that the deep and attentive silence that accompanied Senator Vannino Chiti's statement and President Zanda's speech make us understand that it is in our readiness to restore a real constituent spirit. Therefore, without adding anything to the words of satisfaction expressed by the President of my Group, I would like to make a proposal on the order of business that will help us not to disperse what is contained in the accent of truth proposed by Senator Chiti. I believe that a Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups should be convened, but I also believe that the Conference should be preceded by a reasonable time offered to each Group for a serious assessment of the amendments tabled, if we really want this work to be accompanied by a constituent spirit that sounds like a kind of disarmament. I want to explain. It is clear that those who have tabled appropriate amendments, as well as those who are waiting for political answers, need to understand how much we can really trust each other. So let's really give ourselves a couple of hours, the time and the way to fully understand how the availability expressed so far by everyone, each in his own way, can be consistent and not simply a facade solution. Look that there really is no extra week at stake or less week. Instead, we need to understand how close a pact can be between all the members of this House and to be a constituent pact in the interests of the nation. Believe me, this means that taking charge of what Senator Zanda asked, namely the desire to remove amendments of a obstructive nature, must also be accompanied by the desire to hold a serious debate, without taboos or shrines that can guard untouchable hosts. That is precisely why, Mr President, I would ask you to allow the Groups, each Group, a couple of hours before the convening of a Conference of Leaders, which could constitute an effective step forward in resolving our problems, since those problems are linked to the nation's civil coexistence pact, the Constitution, which we are all in a responsible position to amend in the best possible way. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u46	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, I also asked for the floor so that I could make a simple point to my colleague, Mr Petrocelli, who has called me into question. I believe, however, that at this moment this specification also has its own meaning, which excludes the reconstruction of a historical event. Of course, Mr Petrocelli cannot know this, but I would like to point out that the appointment of the so-called sages of the working group was made by the then President of the Council, Enrico Letta. It was not of course a partition between political groups, but the consultations were done at 360 degrees and, in the specific case, it was myself - and I also kept a computer track of it - to ask the exponents of the 5 Star Movement to report a rose of names. In that case, the political choice - absolutely legitimate and respectable - was made not to mention any name, of which I took note with displeasing, but with respect, because that was also a political choice and at that time that Commission was considered by the 5 Star Movement as an error. I wanted to say this because, as far as I am concerned, my Group and I also believe that the spirit of our membership of the Government is concerned, the subject of reforms and electoral law must be made available to the whole House and to all political forces and every effort must be made to make it understood. This obviously applies also to the present occasion. I should like to conclude with a notation which does not go into personal matters and which recovers an element of the debate: I believe that Mrs De Petris is right in saying that a free debate in Parliament cannot be bound by external agreements, otherwise it is not. Like all members of the majority, I received a letter yesterday from which we unequivocally grasp the desire to overcome the schematism of an external pact. I believe that this is an opportunity for the majority, but it would be a mistake if the opposition did not take it as well. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the senators Luigi Marino and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u49	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am pleased that this morning it is basically devoted to a proposal that we had tried on more than one occasion to move forward both at the Conference of the Leaders and in this House. Senator Chiti has identified some points that seem absolutely exhaustive to me regarding the issues that should be the subject of our debate more precise and that I would like to mention: modalities of the election of the Senate; number of Members; immunity; audience of election of the President of the Republic; referendum and more precise and precise distribution of competences between State and Regions. Senator Mauro - in my opinion - also pointed the way. Mr President, if we were to meet now at the Conference of the Leaders, we should give a technical version of how to begin the path indicated by Senator Chiti. I have the impression, however, that the technical method alone cannot solve the problem, but there is also a need for a political will to enable this House to move on to a more precise and precise analysis of the topics it has just mentioned, in which the decision must be political, in the willingness of the groups. The two hours of time, imagined then, could allow all the groups of nuclear subjects and, therefore, to give up basically thousands of obstructive amendments that would not allow us to deepen our reasoning. Once we have verified the willingness of the Groups to activate this path, at that point, in a constitutional and constructive pact - as Senator Mauro rightly described it - it would be worth bringing together the Conference of Groups which, at that time, even on the basis of what has remained on the table - would have remained, however, all the central arguments and there would no longer be unnecessary and unusable amendments to the purpose I have just stated - it could understand and verify the path from the point of view of the presences in the Chamber. It seems to me that we are basically taking this opportunity. The Leader of the 5 Star Movement also said that from the beginning they believed that 200 were really their amendments and that they would want to focus on them. I have not studied in depth the three tomes that contain them to know exactly what subjects those 200 amendments were referring to, but I suppose they refer to all the most important points in our analysis and the constituent path. So, Mr President, I would say that at the moment, in this House, the political willingness of the Groups to activate this path, as was clear in Senator Chiti's speech, but less clear in the speeches made later. Once this availability has been collected, I think it is worth bringing together the Conference of Leaders, in which all colleagues can understand and imagine the path to be taken. It is probably the work of the rapporteurs in these two fundamental hours because, yes, they are in a position to imagine what the limits must be and the fence within which to formalize the reasoning to be explained in this House. The combination, therefore, of the willingness of the Groups and the work of the rapporteurs could bring within the Conference of the Leaders that central topic, that real path of analysis of this constituent pact that we try to formalize in the Chamber. I do not see - I have concluded, President - what other roads can be pursued within a page that I imagine, and I hope, is clear and not hypocritical, because at this point it is worth all the Groups to return, declare and clarify what their areas of availability are. If we want to continue to examine the amendments, in the way they have been done so far, so that it is argued that there are no mocking amendments, but some are, it is not really worth continuing along this path. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u50	For the humorous amendments, since they have been referred to here several times, I would like to point out that they were declared inadmissible, as they were put forward by the case, at the sitting on Wednesday 23 July 2014. That's what I'm saying to be precise.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u53	Mr President, why does Senator Zanda speak twice? PRESIDENT. - The debate is As a Holding Company, Senator Zanda is entitled to intervene on the order of business. You can intervene too, if you so request. That's not the problem. The problem is another one! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, you may not have realized that a new calendar proposal has come to fruition, on which you can intervene again. I don't think that's the point. I therefore give the floor to Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u54	Mr President, Senator Chiti's speech started from very clear premises and concerns and came to very clear conclusions, which we have heard with respect and which we have also opened up, which the House has been able to hear. It seems to me, from the debate that has taken place, that the conditions set out by Senator Chiti for a solution which - I must say - seemed very fruitful to me and which could have produced very useful results for our debate, but there are no results. We have known the position of all the groups and have heard the confirmation of the amendments tabled by the groups which have tabled a number which I consider to be reasonable of amendments, but we have also heard speeches from those who have tabled some 7,000 amendments and who have not stated that they want to reduce the number of amendments. Therefore, at this moment we are still in the middle of a debate which sees almost 8,000 amendments in the field. At this point, frankly, I do not see the reasons, either for a suspension or for a new conference of the Leaders to reorder our work in the face of a clear decision by the Groups and an express desire to continue according to a rhythm and a way that, frankly, I do not understand. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] So, Mr President, I would ask that our work resume as calendar. Yesterday afternoon you were chairing the Conference of Leaders and will certainly remember my opposition to the suspension of work at the end of the vote of confidence on other measure. Nevertheless, I did not vote against the timetable and we had many hours to work last night, precisely by accepting the request to leave time for preparatory work. It seems to me that today there has been a chance of turning our debate and our work into a turning point, but this opportunity is not being taken up. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to continue to work according to the timetable set by the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u57	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I propose that the Conference of Leaders, as proposed by Senator Mauro, should be done because I have not heard anyone say, contrary to Senator Zanda, that he would never withdraw the amendments. I have heard everyone say that they want to reason with the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is why, at this point, I am asking you officially, Mr President, to give the floor to Mr Boschi, so that she can tell us if she is willing to reason. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Minister, just say three words, "yes, I'm available," or say "no, I'm not available." We do not ask so much, just to be able to hear from the voice of the Government whether it is possible or not to discuss. That is what we are asking at the moment, Mr Boschi, for your word, for the possibility of hearing it in this House and hearing them say, in front of everyone, whether we can sit down and discuss or not. Senator Zanda, that's the core. Is the government willing to deal with concrete proposals, or is it not available? Because if it's available, let's think; if it's not available, let's move on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u60	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I think we should always listen to each other when we speak in this House. As far as we are concerned, I think I have been very clear, in the spirit of what President Chiti said. I recall not by chance his expression on the high mediations, to say that obviously we are not here because we simply want to conquer a few more days and arrive in September, but because - as you, President Zanda, recalled - we are facing a constitutional reform and it is the interest of the country what we are pursuing. So we believe that the merit means to face and have the availability not of three more hours of discussion on the elective Senate or referendum, but to pursue the possibility of changes that are the result of this parliamentary dialectic. For this reason, I think that the meeting of the Leaders is useful, also in order to have the possibility to understand - the Government, respectful of the parliamentary debate, does not intervene - if indeed there can be the intention of a high mediation. When we talk about high mediation, this means that we move from our own positions and we really do a job on the merit that can lead to appreciable results for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u63	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, in order to be even clearer and to make an effective contribution at this stage, we too have tabled about 1,000 amendments and we have not made the statement, as Senator De Petris said, that we do not want to withdraw them. In fact, I had to say last week that, where there had been a willingness of the Government to discuss the main points of the matter, I, who are signatories of as many as 200 amendments (not aimed at obstructionism), would have been willing to withdraw them. So I wanted to clarify this position. But, beyond the infancy and the winged words I have just heard, there is a speech to be made that I would allow myself to define clarity, otherwise we run the risk of turning around the real problem. First of all, I agree with Senator Centinario's exhortation that the Minister should give a sign of life and then say a few words in this House, telling the House itself if there is such a willingness. Otherwise we do the end of Diogene who, as is known, accustomed to not getting an answer, spoke with the statues. Instead, we would like to have a sign of presence and a sign of active participation of the Government. I'd like to say something that's straight for me. Sandro Pertini, in his speech when he was elected President of the Republic, had to say something, which I hand over to Minister Boschi. He said: But if to me, socialist forever, they offered the most radical of social reforms at the price of freedom, I would refuse it, because freedom can never be bartered. [[Applause from the LAG, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] We in this House want the elective Senate. If there is this willingness on the part of the government, let's move on, otherwise we bring in the umbrella and spend the whole summer. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]] Also because, Minister, the problem is not ours: the problem is of President Renzi, who must finally start working again in August. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u64	They asked the rapporteurs to intervene in the constitutional reform bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u65	I call Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I would like to inform the House and all the parliamentary groups (which, of course, they already know about the meetings, talks and exchanges we have had over the past few weeks) that the rapporteurs have continued to work (even if, of course, in an atmosphere which was the particular and unhospitable atmosphere for comparison with obstructionism) to develop, first of all, the in-depth analysis of the points that have been the subject of my replies and of Senator Calderoli, in order to identify, in the large number of amendments, the heart of the issues that were raised. It is obvious that it is a work which is uncomfortable (so unproductive) when 7,800 amendments are applied to parliamentary work and it is obvious that if - let me use this term - it is not a constituent spirit (I do not want to say this word), our work, as advocated by President Chiti, could be done fruitfully for everyone if it were to be brought back - let me use this term - not in a constituent spirit (I do not want to say this word). We'd go back to doing our job. In this sense, if the Conference of the Leaders were to focus on collecting some positive suggestions that have come in this round of opinions today, we would ask that we have a space to cultivate these insights. Among other things - and I say this to my colleagues in the Commission - there are very sensitive and highly evoked issues in the debate, such as those relating to the instruments of direct democracy, which, during the survey, did not have a real deepening, because we have focused more on other aspects of the reform. If we had even very little space, we could call on experts to look into the issues that have also divided the positions of political forces during the debate. That is our attitude, of course a positive attitude. I would like to add another notation. If we really were to succeed - the Conference of Leaders in this case will be essential - in regaining the possibility of working physiologically, we could also affirm another kind of principle that I - but I also believe all my colleagues in this House - are very concerned: any changes to the Commission's text (because of this we are now discussing, Mr Petrocelli: not of the original text, but of the Commission's text) could ripen here, not only because of a symbolic fact, but also because of an exquisitely political fact: the Senate that reform itself, beyond the scope of the reform, has a very significant political value. The Senate is absolutely capable of reforming itself and doing it well and in depth, with courage and generosity. It would therefore be right for the reform to assume, right here in the Senate, its greatest fulfillment. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u67	I call Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u68	Mr President, I fully acknowledge the words of my colleague, co-rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro. The rapporteurs were - perhaps stubbornly - the only ones who believed that the work we did in the Commission and, despite everything, even at the next stages should be continued. The Commission has made a major change to the original text. Someone wondered why I made my contribution to the Commission. It is very simple: it could not be otherwise because, in view of the replacement of some members of the Commission and changing the composition of the majority, the numbers were those and anything else could only be changed in this House, and we are here to continue that path of change. However, Mr President, let me say that I do not say a constituent spirit, but a spirit of willingness on the part of everyone, especially on the part of the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rossi]] , because I am tired of working, of weaving - as they say - the canvas by day, finding myself in agreement with the co-rapporteur, with representatives of the government, with the technicians, with 80% of the political forces with respect to a certain change, and then I find myself in front of the government that does not want. No, that's not how it works. All right, there is the Government's proposal that is a legitimate thing compared to a starting point, but with respect to the other changes, it must be the Assembly that decides them. I believe that the Government would do well to refer to the opinion of the House and to that of the rapporteurs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and SCpI Groups.]] That is why I am asking and I think it is absolutely useful to convene the group leader, but on two conditions. Firstly, that the rapporteurs have the time to be able to work effectively, as President Finocchiaro has already requested, and secondly, that the opening tables be real. It cannot be simply said whether the Government's opinion is in agreement or not. Things must be explained because, if I can accept the architrave of indirect election - I have never wrapped my head, it is a different way of thinking about it so I can choose for one or the other solution and I can also convince myself of one thing or the other - when we discuss all the other details with 161 people who think differently, even if they are wrong, this is democracy and we cannot say a "yes" or "no" that completely blocks everything [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So if we want to continue seriously, let's take a look at the situation. I believe that on that occasion, Senator Zanda, there may be the willingness or not to withdraw a large number of amendments and each political force will assume its responsibilities, but in the face of answers from the Government that at this point can no longer fail to come. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u69	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u70	Mr President, I believe that the government must intervene, not because it is so much urged, but also to restore the reality of the facts and the path that has seen us working together, the Government and the Senate, in these four months. I believe that the attitude that the Government has had in the three and a half months of work in the Commission, in which we have had the opportunity to work alongside the two rapporteurs and the members of the Commission, and the changes, even substantial, made to the initial text of the Government by the work carried out there, are proof of the government's willingness to find meeting points. I would remind all of us that the work in the Commission has seen not only an active role of the Government, but also a favourable opinion of the Government on the amendments of the rapporteurs and the amendments we have shared in the Commission. There has never been an opposition between the Government and the rapporteurs or between the Government and the broad majority, beyond that of the Government, which supported the work in the Commission and which led to a text approved there with such an extended majority. Today it is not simply a question of discussing the government's "yes" and "no" but of the "yes" and "no" of a majority voting that text in the Commission. Therefore, it is no longer simply the basic text of the Government. I can repeat here what I have already had occasion to say on several occasions, even in the group leaders, in the presence of Senator Centinario and Senator De Petris, who today called for a speech in this House. I would like to reiterate what has already been said in those fora. The Government, as always, is prepared to find further points of contact also in the work that will face the House in the next few days and points of openness and mediation, as has always been done also in collaboration with the rapporteurs. The government can't be blackmailed, so to speak, obstructive. That is why I welcomed the proposal made by Senator Chiti, an interesting proposal, which went in order to schedule our work in a different way so that we could concentrate on the points considered to be important and essential and deal with the debate in this House in the right time and with the possibility of finding points of meeting. Probably not everything will be possible to find a meeting point between majority and opposition, so it is not just about the government and the Senate, but about the majority and the opposition. As is the case for any measure and as is the case in the democratic game, there are a majority and an opposition seeking points of convergence, after which it is not conceivable and there is no democratic country which is a minority in Parliament which states its reasons to the detriment of the majority. This is normally the case and will also be the case here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u71	Colleagues, if there are no other speeches, I immediately invite the Conference of Leaders. A decision will then be taken in relation to the possible suspension, including in order to organise the continuation of the work. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 11.11 a.m. and resumed at 12.14 p.m.) The session is resumed. I inform you that the sitting is suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.14 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u72	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 24 July the votes on the amendments tabled in Article 1 continued. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u75	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak only to ask you kindly - even if it is deductively understood - whether, for the benefit of the House's report, you can give news of the outcome of the Conference of the Leaders, a meeting for which we have stayed a long time today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u76	You're right, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u77	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). That is the only reason why I am asking you, in order to give continuity to a debate, which has developed in the second part of the afternoon sitting, which is particularly complex and delicate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u78	I must say with regret that both the Conference of the Leaders and the suspension that followed resulted in a negative outcome, so we are taking the vote again. It was right for you to specify that, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u81	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to make a request similar to that of my previous colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. VOLPI (LN-Aut). However, let me point out that each Parent Group will probably have its own version of what you have described as a negative outcome, because the Conference of Leaders does not have a positive or negative outcome, a more general situation occurs in it: I would therefore ask you to report briefly. It is not to make controversy, but it seems to me very important to have an objective opinion, which I believe only you can give us in this case, about the proposals put forward with regard to working out some preparatory steps to understand the feasibility of the proposals themselves, which seemed to me specific, albeit different. I would therefore ask you to give us your own version, as you are the President of all the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u82	Thank you for having invested me in this task, Senator Volpi, but the conclusion gives the synthesis of how all attempts at mediation and even suspension have been in vain. I think I have done everything I can to help as far as possible, but I must note with regret that we must resume the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from Senators Crosio and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u85	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u86	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). The electronic vote had already been requested for the whole of Article 1, this verification of the support therefore renews the request already made. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words 'Chapters I'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1 and amendments 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'from 1 to'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.5 and amendments 1.6 to 1.27 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u89	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I rise on Amendment 1.29 for the sake of clarity of voting. Since the amendment contains very different issues, we propose that separate parts be voted on as follows. The first part to be put to the vote is the one from the introductory phrase: "Replace Chapter I with the following until the whole first period, which ends with the words: "They are elected by universal and direct suffrage." The second part from the words: "The electoral laws" until the end of the period. The third part is paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5. In addition, Mr President, for the sake of clarity of the votes and to avoid repeated votes on the same subjects, since the first period of the second part, the period relating to gender balance, the electoral laws guarantee respect for gender balance, is also related to matters dealt with in other amendments, on some of which the rapporteurs, in the expression of opinions, and in particular on amendment 1,1713 (text 2), Senator Fadeli and others, and on the subsequent 1.0.24, 1.025 and 1.0.26, have declared their favourable opinion in a reformulation proposed to the House, we ask that the relative part precisely to the introduction of rules ensuring respect for gender balance be voted on first.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u92	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, at least from what was the illustration made by Senator Ghedini, I believe that your proposal cannot stand. In fact, if a person makes the first part vote, which goes from: " Replace Chapter I to the word: "direct," I wonder what the next period is going to be, because the incipit is "Replace Chapter." The following is added: If this should be rejected, the next period lies in the middle of the sea, in the sense that we do not know what we are going to replace, add, put, modify. Therefore, the incipit of substitution must necessarily remain; otherwise, an amendment would be transformed different from that which is the spirit in which it was tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u93	First of all, we must decide on the request made by Senator Ghedini, bearing in mind that, for one part, both rapporteurs gave a favourable opinion on amendment 1,713 (text 2). Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Excuse me, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The problem is the request for a split vote, first of all, on which I would like to ask... Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr President, I am not saying that I am in favour of or against the split vote. I said that the split vote, as proposed by Senator Ghedini, is going to reverse the beginning of the amendment, so the second part alone cannot live. Therefore, I believe that the correct division is the one that begins with the words: "Replace Chapter I to the word "direct" and then proceed with "electoral laws" and so on. Compared to the second question put by Senator Ghedini, voting on the election period - electoral laws guarantee respect for and gender balance and the representation of linguistic minorities - even if they were rejected - would not preclude the amendment on which we voted in favour. With regard to the different order of votes, referring to Rule 102 (4), the reversal of the order is always in the President's readiness. Practice has never seen a reversal with reference to a constitutional bill. We do not have a precise provision in our Rules of Procedure but, by analogy with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Rule 85-a, with reference to Rule 85, is specifically said that this power of the President of the Inversion is not allowed in the case of a constitutional bill. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Yes, however, this rule does not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u96	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, I think that the request made by Senator Ghedini for an early vote on the rapporteur's amendment is appropriate because of the political importance of the matter, because we agree on a text on which the rapporteurs have already, by rewording parliamentary amendments, expressed their amendment and because otherwise we would risk, not from the procedural point of view - there is right Senator Calderoli - but from the political point of view - it is one of the considerations which can therefore be adopted in the interests of clarity of the votes and direction of the House - in the secret of the urn to overwhelm with one principle.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u97	As the subject proposed by Senator Ghedini is a reference to the order of votes, on this invitation to speak and, if necessary, to submit this anticipation of the order of votes to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u100	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the arguments put forward by Senator Calderoli are absolutely legitimate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you, first of all, to deal with the first point, namely the point of order of voting. CRIMI (M5S). No, the second argument... president. No, we have to go by order. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. CRIMI (M5S). If Senator Ghedini was wrong and first spoke of voting for separate parties and then introduced the reversal of the voting order is his problem, because the first problem he posed was to vote for separate parts of this amendment; voting for separate parts would be broken down by a part that does not stand alone. Then came the question of the other amendment 1,1713 (text 2). Let us not fool ourselves, Mr President, I ask you kindly. It's been a year and a half since we've been here, and we're not the first day's rookies anymore. Let's not make fun of each other. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We know what the purpose of this procedure and of this maneuver is. The aim is to ban the secret vote on this amendment, the elective Senate [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator De Petris]] , for which it is known that both in Forza Italia and in the New Right Center that in the Democratic Party there are so many stomachaches [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Therefore, Senator Ghedini must say clearly: I want to avoid voting in my party with party discipline and instead vote according to freedom on the elective Senate, because this is the order given by the government. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] That's what we're doing. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] It's technical evidence of dictatorship! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator De Petris. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u103	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I call on all - and I address myself to Senator Ghedini - to avoid forcing which I consider absolutely inappropriate in the first place because it first introduced the fact of voting for separate parts, and it cannot be artificially thought of separating the first paragraph, dividing it and breaking it up in order to be able to vote on individual adjectives. Secondly, having introduced the question of even anticipating - and therefore reversing the voting order - the vote on amendment 1,1713 in the wording proposed by the rapporteurs is absolutely incredible. Then say immediately that you want to immediately anticipate the final vote of the whole text and let's do it first. What is this way of moving forward, if there is even the question of an amendment by the rapporteurs, which is in its 750th place? In our view, this is because from the point of view of voting order it is - in my view and in our view - absolutely unacceptable. Senator Ghedini and the others must understand that we do not tackle the political nodes by once again coordinating the will of the Senate and the individual senators, preventing them in the end, with what risks being simply an artifice and a trick, to be able to express themselves freely. I want to know one thing: this Senate, do individual senators have the right or not to express themselves freely on the nodes that are at everyone's attention? So far we have had very few votes, and at the moment there is an extremely important vote: Mr President, we cannot tolerate the questioning of the possibility of following an order - which is certainly not what has been given, but the order of tabling amendments - in order to make operations which effectively prevent the possibility of free expression of senators. This, Mr President, is absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u106	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are about to proceed to the first secret vote. I would ask you, before I begin my speech, to confirm whether Amendment 1.29 is one of those for which the secret vote has been accepted. Is that correct? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is one of the amendments which concerns the secret vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Is the secret vote on this amendment allowed? I'll ask him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). So Amendment 1.29 will be the first secret vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani, I invite you, as I did with your fellow senators, to indicate to the Presidency your opinion on the voting order on amendment 1,1713 (text 2). CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will take very little time from you and my colleagues to say that the indication of the amendments that the Presidency has accepted by secret vote respects what is requested, proposed and provided for in our Rules of Procedure and what is stated within the Constitution with regard to the indisputability of the vote of individual senators and parliamentarians. It is clear that it is your job, Mr President, to represent this right as well, and it is equally clear that the method which is manifesting itself, on the contrary, will make responsible for the vote that will be given by the individual senators, who will of course be called upon to respond to it. Unfortunately, Mr President - we saw this when the senators in the Commission were replaced - today we know that those who will take a stand on this amendment will suffer from their Group - that of the Democratic Party in this case, and I do not want to say that Senator Zanda already has the notebook to take note - the political weight of his decision and we know that this will certainly happen. I would ask you, Mr President, to protect the senators, remembering that the right to secret vote in this case is the same as the right of citizens when they cross when they go to vote for the elections. It is a freedom and in this case it guarantees our democracy with respect to actions that can instead compress the will of the individual senators. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u109	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I appeal to your high office to accept Mr Ghedini's request, who has already received the support of the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro. I believe that the worst thing in parliamentary work is formalism, and I believe that even more so, in the vote on a constitutional law, the House must be placed in a position of clear choices. The individual periods of the amendment correspond to several themes and the same request for advance proposed by Senator Ghedini allows the Assembly to appreciate the gender parameter in electoral laws, separating it from that of the linguistic minorities not better defined. The same secret vote must be limited to the subject only - and only if the matter is considered sensitive in this regard - by making it an exception which cannot, through formal mechanisms, extend to other profiles and other contents, for which it is good for the Assembly to express itself transparently and it is good for the citizens to know the behaviour of each senator in this regard. I would ask you, therefore, to put us in a position to vote separately on the individual subjects, in accordance with the secret voting criterion you have indicated. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u110	Senator Sacconi, on the advance for now I have enucleated the subject. I asked you to speak on the advance of the amendment in the voting order requested by Senator Ghedini. I wanted your opinion on this, Senator Sacconi: on the point of order of voting for amendment 1,1713 on which both rapporteurs gave a favourable opinion, calling for a rewording which has been tabled as requested by them. SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I began by saying that I shared Senator Ghedini's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Bisinella points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator, Senator Candiani has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u113	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Senator Ghedini has made three requests, which seem to me to be all three to be supported, under our Rules of Procedure and even a minimum of parliamentary logic. The first question that Senator Ghedini raised is that of the split vote. Amendment 1.29 is particularly complex: it provides for regulations for totally different and independent subjects, which must be judged independently of each other. To make an amendment in this way, by combining different subjects, forces a separate vote, making it, in my opinion, mandatory. The second question concerns the secret vote, which has been requested for the part of the amendment regulating guarantees for linguistic minorities. Anyone who examines the text of the amendment can see how this is a very marginal discipline compared to the rest of the amendment, which concerns all other issues, which are very different in scope and, in my opinion, much wider. The part that must be put to the secret vote is only the part that can be done by regulation, if the presidency of the Senate considers it appropriate and necessary. With regard, then, to the question of respect for gender balance, frankly it seems perfectly normal - it is part of the practice of the Senate - that in these cases, there are other amendments, having already been an expression of opinion by the rapporteurs and, therefore, being possible to reach a complete and definitive discipline of a subject, this criterion is being followed. If, as Senator Calderoli rightly points out, this should impose coordination work (because otherwise the various parties would not stand by themselves), I believe it is part of the Presidency's role to do this work so that each of the parties - voted when it is to be voted - can stand up and have its own meaning. I think, by the way, it's not a hard job to write. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u114	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on Amendment No 1,1713 (text 2). CRIMI (M5S). The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The advance concerns amendment 1,1713 (text 2), resulting from the rewording, requested by both rapporteurs, with the favourable opinion of the representative of the Government. The text of the amendment as reworded is as follows: In the paragraph "Art. 55', after the first subparagraph, insert the following: "The laws laying down the procedures for the election of the Chambers promote the balance between women and men in representation." I put to the vote the request in advance in the order of vote for amendment 1,1713 (text 2). The Senate approves. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1713 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u117	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this rewording is absolutely imaginative, in the sense that you have taken an amendment at random and have written what you wanted. Let us read what is written here, since the amendment is mine and I can also accept the rewording or not, and perhaps President should have asked me first... President. Senator De Petris, the amendment on which we stand is 1,1713, the first signatory of Faith and other Senators, the last signatory of Spilabotte, of which you are not a signatory. On this amendment there was an invitation to withdraw and a proposal for the rewording of the rapporteurs, Mr Finocchiaro and Mr Calderoli. It was presented, according to the request of the speakers and with the agreement of the Government, to insert the following wording: The laws establishing the methods of election of the Chambers promote the balance between women and men in the representation of the Chambers. That is the amendment we are voting on. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, if this amendment had only been addressed to the House of Members, it was an account, but I would like to understand how this rule, even so reworded - given the rapporteur's proposal on the text on the composition and method of election of the Senate - can be applied to the new Senate. We all know, Mr President, that the electoral laws of the regions are different from one another. There are electoral laws that provide for dual preference, which already provide for gender balance, and there are others that do not foresee it, so much so, dear President, that we currently have some regional Councils, which have recently been elected, where the representation of women is reduced to one unit, or does not exist at all. Therefore, either you assume the responsibility to say that the legislative power of the regions in electoral matters will be cancelled, so that the electoral law will be unique and equal everywhere and will be done by Parliament, or I would like to understand how you intend to apply this wording. I understand that you had to do "the job" to anticipate this amendment, find a solution and block the previous one, but I would honestly like to understand, President, by going to the substance of the issues, how this wording can ever be applied. Moreover, since it is one of the points we have discussed several times, I would like to know whether we are coming - the rapporteurs can say this and propose it to this House - to a hypothesis of decision that cancels the power of the Regions to legislate in electoral matters, so that Parliament is called upon to enact the only electoral law for regional elections; otherwise we are voting for a generic reaffirmation of principle that will never have full application in the type of Senate as proposed. [[Applause from Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u120	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank Senator De Petris for allowing me to explain the reasoning behind which Senator Calderoli and I have decided to present this rewording, which, moreover, takes into account several amendments proposed by the colleagues, and therefore those at first signed by Fedeli, first signed by Maturani and colleagues from other groups (now I do not remember exactly). Just starting from the considerations of Senator De Petris, with whom we also had a discussion, we tried a formulation that refers to the laws that determine the methods of election of the Chambers. We chose the plural precisely because we wanted to affirm this principle once and for all, rather than repeating it again in Article 56, then in 57, in 122 and therefore in the transitional discipline. This, on the basis of one consideration: it is true that the electoral systems of the Regions are different and therefore we will have to refer to them when we pursue gender balance also in the composition of the Senate, but already Article 122 in force - and it is a forecast that remains intact in the text that we are examining - provides that a law of the State establishes the fundamental principles to which regional electoral laws must conform. Consequently, with this amendment we intended to establish among the fundamental principles that are normally provided for in the law under Article 122 also the principle of gender rebalancing, which in this way becomes one of the fundamental principles to which, therefore, according to the law of the State, individual electoral and regional laws will have to conform. Senator De Petris is right in saying that all this requires a path and that it is possible that, according to the current electoral laws, the first composition of the Senate, should this reform be approved and enter into force before the adoption of new electoral laws, would be decommissioned in terms of gender representation, but it is also true that with this formulation we place the prerequisites for and in regional electoral laws, and then in the elections that will take place for the individual regional councils, the principle of gender representation balance is observed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u123	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, we denounce the embarrassment with which we are faced immediately with an important and fundamental issue of principle and also of politics, with a procedural forcing imposed on us by the Democratic Party's majority group, which, when calling for the "unpacking" of amendment 1.29, notes that that part of the amendment which refers to gender balance saw the issue overcome with a better wording in this amendment. For this procedural forcing, we therefore have to express ourselves on the merits of an important, political issue, strongly warned by citizens and society, having to argue immediately despite being opposed to the same forced action. I find it very undemocratic, on the part of Senator Ghedini, to have forced the oppositions to have to address with embarrassment an issue that deserved to have a proper place of discussion and discussion, at the appropriate time and following the chronological order of submission of the amendments, order which had its own logic also in relation to the parts of Article 1 that we are examining. Having said that, we too have raised the issue as a Group because it is true that it will then be the responsibility of the individual regional laws to regulate this aspect, but the hope is that a fundamental principle of unity will be observed, which must also apply to regional electoral laws. However, this will not guarantee - and I agree with my colleague Mr De Petris - that then, in the way in which the new Senate is composed, this principle will be observed, because the system of election is indicated in principle, but then it will be up to each and every regional law to address the issue. So nothing solves, and it's good to emphasize it. On the substance, we agree with the rewording and therefore express our support for the political question and the principle that is being affirmed, with the reservations that we have highlighted and denouncing the forcing that has been put in place. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u126	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in relation to the rule put to the vote, reference has been made to Article 122 of the Constitution, because it is Article 51, which is part of Part I of the Constitution, which affirms the principle of promoting all actions on gender equality in elected positions. In Part II there are only rules of specification, so today we do not go to establish a principle as if it were a new thing. The true constitutional principle is set out in Part I and is the promotion of all positive actions aimed at ensuring equality between men and women in access to all elective positions, including the House and the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u129	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as President Azzollini would say, this amendment is an ultroneo because, as Senator Caliendo has just explained, it is of no use. That is why I find it regrettable that we are using such an issue which, as Article 51 states, is already promoted by our Constitution. It would have been different, Mr Ghedini - and the rapporteur, Mr Finocchiaro, to put the same question - if the rapporteurs had proposed to the House in the text not the promotion but the guarantee of equality, obviously referring to the electoral laws of each of the regions that will have to take charge of this true reform of the system of representation, so not the one we have discussed so far, but the one that renders justice in this society. [[Applause from Senators Baptist and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u132	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, we want to be on the substance of the subject. We have signed this amendment with conviction and we will also vote for it with conviction. We would like the House to say yes or no for once, on this issue as on all others. We have the impression that you're a little wrapped up in reasoning that has absolutely nothing to do with it. On gender equality we have always shown an extremely crystalline position. We are rewriting an important part of our Constitution and we are pleased that the principle is clearly stated in the Constitution. So let's stick to the concept of what it is and let's leave aside sterile polemics. We vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the NCD and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u135	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in full agreement with the substance, I would like to ask whether the wording is as precise as possible, given that the wording in the rewording 'promotes the balance between women and men in representation', which is a bit old-fashioned as gender representation has been mentioned in all speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Malan and Gatti.]] I wonder if the rapporteurs do not want to reconsider using this expression instead of the expression 'women and men'. I'm going back to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u136	There is a reformulation that has already been accepted. So let's vote for this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u139	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, in reply to the exception raised by my colleague, Mr Palermo, it would seem curious to put a diction in Article 51 and use a different diction in Article 55. It is okay that it is a reform, but I would maintain an identical diction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u140	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1713 (text 2), tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Palma.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.29, for which separate votes have been requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u143	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, before we voted for the proposal to vote in advance on Amendment No 1,1713 (text 2) on the basis of Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure when the decision should have been taken by you without asking the House to speak. There is now a split vote... president. Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, if I take it back on the Rules of Procedure, but I made use of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, not 102. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. All right, but now, since there is no unanimity in relation to the separate vote on this amendment, first we have to vote on the separate vote, then we will vote on it. However, I would ask you, Mr President, as you put the individual parts of the amendment to the vote, to specify what you put to the vote, because I have not yet been able to understand the second part of Amendment 1.29 from what is being read.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u144	I put to the vote the proposal to vote separately on Amendment 1.29. It's approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I read the first part of amendment 1.29, which was requested to be voted by separate parties: "Replace Chapter I with the following: "Chapter I - Reduction in the number of Members. - Art. 1. - (Amendments to Articles 55, 56 and 57 of the Constitution on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament) - One. In Article 55 of the Constitution, the following is inserted after the first paragraph: "The members of the two chambers are elected by universal and direct This is the first part of Amendment 1.29 which will be put to the vote with a clear vote. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, to the words 'universal and direct'. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u147	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, that is the nodal point. Now, quite frankly, let us say this: this is the fundamental point of this reform, the starting point for everything else; the point that has been set aside in the Commission for months. It is the point that has been put aside until the last day, until the last moment because there is obviously some perplexity on this point. We know that there is some perplexity in the various souls within the individual parliamentary groups. Now is the time to "get your balls out," forgive the language. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Manconi (PD). Don't do it, don't do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, please. CRIMI (M5S). Sometimes it takes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can use synonyms that do not necessarily involve our debate. CRIMI (M5S). President, for what is going on in here, there are no more useful synonyms and no more euphemisms, and this is just the beginning. We have said this: we have all tried them in the institutional form; now we no longer respond to actions that are no longer institutional. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We turn to all those who have spent these days and the last few months saying that it was right that the Senate should be elected: here we have to vote, and the vote will be obvious thanks to an escamotage. Among other things, I still have to read - because not yet published - the shorthand report on Senator Ghedini's speech because I am not convinced that she requested what you put to the vote, Mr President, namely the reversal of the voting order for the amendments. I'm gonna go read the shorthand again, because if you put something to the vote that wasn't requested by Senator Ghedini, you're gonna take responsibility for it, President. So, I repeat, this is the time to show the Italians if we want to continue on the road to indirect elections. We have already done so with the Provinces, with the Metropolitan Cities, now with the Senate; tomorrow it will be the Government and the day after tomorrow the President of the Republic; in the end it will be an oligarchy. This is what we are trying to do: a set of people, the new nobility! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This goes to profile: we will have barons, accounts, kings and queens; we are going in that direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We already have King Renzi posing as king, King George too, we are in place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I call on all those who have spent the last few months in this battle and who have expressed their disagreement: it is time to vote; it is the crucial moment. This amendment provides, also thanks to the split vote, two simple lines in which it is said that the members of the two Chambers are elected by universal and direct suffrage. It is the crucial point; it adds nothing else, it is simply this. So, you have to answer if you want the Senate elected by the citizens or if you want the Senate elected by those regional advisors the most investigated and arrested in Italy. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] In addition, another request for arrest came to the House. Well, that's what you have to say; you have to tell the citizens if you want a Senate elected by a further caste. That's the nodal point. Do not vote for a Senate of elected indirectly by the Regions. Vote for a Senate elected by citizens! BUCCARELLA (M5S). From the citizens! [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] CRIMI (M5S). Vote for a Senate elected by the citizens. Put your face on it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u150	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, it is your prerogative to admit the requests, as you have previously done in relation to a split vote, as it is also your prerogative to admit or not to admit the amendments when you assess whether or not they are modifiable. This, in a sense, has already approached Senator Calderoli in his first speech. The remaining part that would survive when the first part of amendment 1.29, from the word "Replace" to the word "Direct" was not voted or not approved by the Assembly would be as follows: The electoral laws guarantee respect for the gender balance and the representation of linguistic minorities, corrected by the approval we have just made of amendment 1,1713 (text 2), of which Senator Fedeli is first signatory. The remaining problems are these: the modifying scope of this second part at this point where it engages? I am asking for this because the amendment would remain out of place, even though Senator De Petris - and I would like to draw attention to this - might not accept this request for a split vote, and as the dominus of the amendment, I do not know how the Presidency could fail to accept its will. In fact, Senator De Petris might insist that the split vote is fine, but since the understanding of the second part is always to add a modification to Chapter I (if not to reduce the number of parliamentarians, aimed at pointing out that electoral laws guarantee respect for gender balance), the separate part with the exception of the clarification can not be voted: "Replace Chapter I with the following: Chapter I (...)" and after approving only the words: The electoral laws guarantee respect for gender balance... to the point. In this way, if this were not done, I believe that the Presidency would violate the understanding of Senator De Petris and the will of the amendment, i.e. the modifi cation and improvement of the proposal and the other problem of the President. The drafting offices and the president - who is the expert expert - at this point, if this part were approved, where would they attach it? What is the article of the Constitution that, at a certain time, should contain the words "The electoral laws guarantee (...) " and so on? Or should a separate article be written, in which it is ordered that the electoral laws guarantee (...)............................................................. I am of the opinion, Mr President, that Senator De Petris cannot accept the wording of her proposal, which had a first part, which may or may not be adopted (having regard to the request to vote separately), and another which may not be approved or approved, i.e. contrary to what may happen on the first part. In this sense, we must respect the votes. However, Mr President, I would like to ask you to give one of the answers, not now by then, in the sense that you could decide to see first what happens in this House with the approval of the reform of the Constitution and then figure out where to attach this article, i.e. whether to add it or foresee it separately. I would, however, also like to know what is being voted on to have such an answer first. It would have a better reading, I repeat, if instead of replacing the Cape I with the following vote, the reduction in the number of Members was taken for a different vote and the part was voted: Replace Chapter I with the following: Chapter I - The electoral laws guarantee.........................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u153	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think that the role of rapporteur on a constitutional reform text is not a play and cannot be lent to partisan actions, but must have the political and institutional weight it has. Mr Calderoli reminded this House of one of the most trivial things: as long as this Constitution and this Rules of Procedure are in place, we are still obliged to respect this Constitution and this Rules of Procedure! By proceeding to the vote which you, Mr President, somewhat pilatesquely - I am sorry - left to the decision of the House, ergo of the majority, you are allowing something that the Rules of Procedure do not allow: by expelling the first part, that on the vote by universal suffrage, the second part would remain which - as Mr Calderoli pointed out - is linked "to the clouds." What does it mean to read: Do electoral laws guarantee respect for gender balance and representation of linguistic minorities? What are the electoral laws? Report to what? We have removed the core; it remains a nothing tied to nothing, which we do not know how to read. Our Rules of Procedure do allow us to vote separately, on the only condition, however, that each of the remaining parts has its own logical meaning, as well as a regulatory value.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u154	I do not want to interrupt you, Senator Divina, but you are anticipating a discussion that will have to take place later and I would then regret not being able to give you the floor, because you have already spoken. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let me just finish, Mr President, otherwise the speech will remain in the air. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I will leave it to you to finish, but since we are considering the vote on the first part of amendment 1.29, if you stick to the subject of the vote we are about to take, which is precisely the first part of this amending proposal, then these considerations can certainly be made when we move forward. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, don't pretend you don't understand: this is not a problem relating to the first part of the amendment... I do not pretend not to understand, but I am telling you that we are voting for the first part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u155	The problem is that we cannot vote for the first part. That is what Mr Ferrara has just said and what Mr Calderoli said earlier: if the second part is not standing, he cannot even hold the reasoning of Senator Zanda, according to whom he is then in the correction phase. We don't fix anything anymore. Mr President, stick to the Rules of Procedure and know that we will not do a battle, but war, in here, when you trample on the Constitution! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Already the quota cannot be foreseen for constitutional reform; now we are treading the Rules of Procedure because a part of this House, which is subjugated by a President-in-Office of the Council, wants only a quick Parliament. We do not want a quick Parliament, but we still want a free Parliament! [[Live applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups.]] VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u156	She asked Senator De Petris to intervene, but I don't see her. URAS (Misto-SEL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you speak, Senator Uras, then Senator De Petris, who is the author of this amendment, cannot speak. URAS (Misto-SEL). He's coming, Mr. President. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Sorry, Mr President, I asked to speak at the end, because first I would like to hear the various assessments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But we are already at the end, Senator De Petris, because there is no one who has asked to speak anymore, so if you want to speak right now you can do so. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] Excuse me, in the meantime, they have asked Senator Ricchiuti and Senator Mineo to intervene, otherwise a moment ago she would have been the one to conclude on this point. [[Senator Palma's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u158	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u159	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I am going to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.29, tabled by Mr De Petris, Mr Barozzino and others. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups. Comments.]] The aim of this amending proposal is to reduce the number of rooms. [[Brusio]] elected by universal suffrage. I would like to comment on the aspect of the number of Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u160	Excuse me, Senator Ricchiuti, we are trying to maintain an order in the debate: we are still on the first part of amendment 1.29, so if you want to speak on the third part, with reference to the number of Members, you will do so later. RICHIUTI (PD). I must speak on the direct election of Members. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then intervene on the first part of the amendment, on universal and direct suffrage, because we are standing there. Thank you for your cooperation. . RICHIUTI (PD). My speech is about reducing the number of Members. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then I would ask you to intervene later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u162	Is your speech always the first part of amendment 1.29, which was submitted to a separate vote? MINEO (PD). Absolutely, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. MINEO (PD). Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to say with kindness to Senator Crimes that I do not believe that anyone in this House needs to perform anything. Instead, it is a question of defending a fine principle of our Constitution, namely that the members of the two chambers are elected by universal and direct suffrage. I ask you, then, if you can derogate from this principle: yes, of course, if only one House is meant to represent the nation as a whole, as is the case in Germany with the Bundestag, with an election among other things proportional, and another House represents the interests and views of regional governments, the Bundesrat. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission's text, which the rapporteurs have brought to this House, there is no longer any reference to regional governments in the distribution of the new Parliament. Those that may have been government wishes have been set aside. Here, however, we are talking about a Senate that is elected not by universal and direct suffrage, but by regional councillors with a mechanism, among other things, very complex. At this point I believe there is no justification for not giving all voters the right to elect the Senate as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u163	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to say - and I finish my speech - that the example of the French system is absolutely improper. In France, there are very, very many large voters - some 175,000 - and that formula was incorporated into the Constitution in 1958, to prevent the French Parliament from being too Parisian and Jacobine and to take into account also the small French of local realities. On the contrary, it is a Senate that would be the expression of regional parties: a caste that elects another caste. Therefore, I shall vote in favour of my Group and defend the principle of direct universal election of the two chambers. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u166	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I will return for a moment to the division that has been made. Amendment 1.29 was divided into five paragraphs, the first of which dealt with how people were elected: by universal suffrage, which is one thing and by direct suffrage, which is another, guaranteeing linguistic minorities and gender equality. It is, therefore, a homogeneous set of considerations of how people were elected. The other paragraphs concerned the quantity. On the contrary, an artificial division has been made, in which the first paragraph has been broken, which I sincerely cannot understand, except by imagining that it was necessary to separate the direct universal suffrage from the rest on linguistic minorities. I think it's a forced force. Moreover - in my opinion - it is a bad sign to say that, if only this first part were to be voted, both Chambers should not be elected without universal suffrage and direct suffrage. They're two different concepts. I know that Rule 56 would remain as it stands, which guarantees direct universal suffrage for the House of Deputies. But in an amendment to vote against universal suffrage, which is what guarantees that there will no longer be elections linked to the census, as was the case in the past, I think it is a problem that we have to put to ourselves in a certain sense. This is the surgery I wanted to do. In my opinion, the distribution requested by Mr Ghedini is wrong. In any case, we must vote for universal and direct suffrage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u169	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is clear that, despite the attempt to unpack it, Amendment 1.29 - I am talking about the first part, Mr President - had its clear purpose. It is clear to everyone that, since it was born in the spirit of producing a reduction in the number of Members, the fact of ensuring the representation of linguistic minorities and gender equality was closely linked to the overall proposal to reduce the number of Members and of course the reaffirmation of the articles of the Constitution on direct election by universal suffrage. However, since the wishes of the presenters are being changed through unpacking, Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 1,29, 1.30 and 1.31. [[Applause from the M5Se Group by Senator Minzolini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u170	Excuse me, Senator De Petris, but I did not mark the amendments you are going to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u171	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I withdraw amendments 1.29, 1.30 and 1.31, and move on to Amendment 1.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u174	Milo (GAL). Mr President, I wanted to see how we proceed in our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u175	Let's keep going. Milo (GAL). In chronological order or jump? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is a number of amendments. That's not new. Apart from a few requests to reverse the voting order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u178	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as I said before, I was waiting for the shorthand report because I wanted to be clear about what Senator Ghedini asked for. Well, you put something else to the vote. Senator Ghedini, as indicated in the shorthand report (then she will correct it tomorrow, if she wishes, or we will also watch the video to see if she has said so or not), after recalling the rapporteur's favourable opinion on a rewording proposed to the House, said: "We ask that the part of the amendment - which is related precisely to the introduction of rules ensuring respect for the gender balance be voted on first." Clearly, Mr President, it is our imagination - that is to say, we can suspect - that this was already agreed and therefore that you already knew what would be required. So you put to the vote what Senator Ghedini didn't say. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u179	If no one intends to take charge of the withdrawn amendments, let us move on to amendment 1,28, on which the secret vote was requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u182	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, since it is quite clear that we are voting on the same subject, I repeat the same request that I made earlier. I made two requests earlier. The first was this and I repeat it now: I call for amendment 1.28 to be voted on separately and for the first part to be voted on by the words: 'Replace Chapter I with the following... until the first paragraph, which ends with the words: 'they are elected by direct universal suffrage'. This was the first of the two requests I made earlier. The second was the advance vote on amendment 1,1713 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u184	On this request? SACCONI (NCD). I would like to endorse the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. How? SACCONI (NCD). I have asked for the amendment to be accepted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is Senator De Petris' consent there? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No, I don't. (
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u185	[[Comments from the Mixed-SEL, NCD and PD Groups.]] De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). We're at the farce. URAS (Misto-SEL). Let's be serious. We're changing the Constitution. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u187	Senator Volpi, I do not know why you intend to speak because there is no debate on the proposal for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u188	However, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u189	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I understand that Senator Ghedini does her job, that she has the responsibility of the House for that part and that she therefore makes the demands. I would ask, however, that the intelligence of oppositions should not be insulted. That would be a good thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u190	So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a request to vote on Amendment 1.28 separately. So let's vote for the first part... [[Senator Mussini points out that she wants to intervene.]] Please, Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr President. I would like a clarification. Senator Ghedini continues to ask for a separate vote on this amendment and to refer to the amendment that has already been voted on, concerning respect for gender balance. The reference paragraph, however - as Mr Orellana said just now - is not only about gender balance, but also about the protection of linguistic minorities. I therefore cannot understand how we can make a logical operation for which we are asking for a split vote, then going to confuse the ideas, isolating a part in which the protection of linguistic minorities is not actually foreseen and therefore has never been voted. I would add that I find it really embarrassing what is happening at this moment, when we are proceeding with blows when just this morning we asked for a high mediation: what I am seeing here is really everything but a high mediation. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] I am seeing an attempt to intervene with tools and tricks, rather than leave a decision on such an important subject to the famous mandate for which we are here serenely and freely to the conscience of each of us. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u194	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, since my request is being interpreted, I would like to repeat it in the hope of being clear. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] CRIMI (M5S). Get Zanda to talk better! [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u195	Let Senator Ghedini speak. Senator Crimes, you spoke, now let the others speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u196	CRIMI (M5S). I didn't talk about that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He spoke earlier. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Quiet, please. Senator Ghedini, you have the floor. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). I would just like to reiterate my request and our request to vote for separate parts of Amendment 1.28. The first part goes from the words: "Replace Chapter I with the following... to the whole first paragraph, which ends with the words: "They are elected by direct universal suffrage." The next part goes from the words: "The laws for their election" to the words: "Linguistic minorities." Finally, the third part includes paragraphs 2 to 5. That was the same request I made for amendment 1.29 which was then withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u199	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, just one minute to support Mr Mussini's point. The first part of the amendment - 'Members of Parliament are elected by universal and direct suffrage', and so on - should be removed from the next part, in which, however, it is written: "The laws for their election ensure respect (...)" The reference to: "they" if separated from the preceding part, grammatically does not refer to anything: to the election of whom? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] Hence, from a grammatical point of view and linguistic and syntactic logic, this period cannot be separated. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u202	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I wanted to make the same point as Mr Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u205	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is clear that one sentence reads: The laws for their election ensure respect for gender balance and the protection of linguistic minorities in the national language does not mean anything. It is therefore completely inseparable from the previous period. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u206	I put to the vote the second part of Amendment 1.28... [[Vivacious protests from the M5S, LN-Aut and GAL groups and Senator De Petris. Senators Calderoli and Ferrara Mario indicate that they want to intervene]] URAS (Misto-SEL). You can't vote for something that makes no sense! M5S, LN-AUT AND JOINT-SEL CHOIR OF VOICES. You can't! You can't! You can't... president. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 16.25 a.m. and resumed at 16.38 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u209	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I am also speaking to bring peace to this House. I think it is right to know what the senators are voting for in order to carry out our work properly. There has been a proposal for a split vote and the request is legitimate. However, paragraph 5 of Article 102 of the Regulation states: "in several parts each having its own logical meaning and normative value." Then I wonder, as I ask again with respect to what I have already asked before: if the words are removed from: " Replace Chapter I with the following: "to the others: "and direct", the next sentence that we should vote on is the following: The laws for their election ensure respect for gender balance and the protection of linguistic minorities. Well, I wonder who they are, since the 'their' refers to the first part of the amendment. Will the applicant or you, Mr President, explain to me what is right and where this sentence is to be placed: perhaps on the title of the Constitution, since the reference to Article 55 is not even written? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, you're right, but first we vote on the request. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The request must be reasoned in a logical manner. Excuse me, Mr President, the Rules of Procedure prescribe when separate votes can be put to the vote in this House. Either you explain to me what is logical in this proposal, or I unfortunately withdraw the compliments I gave you on the courage on the issue of secret voting, because here, by majority vote, our Rules of Procedure are deleting the secret vote! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u210	Senator Calderoli, you can withdraw anything you want, but I say to you, as I said in the speech that was read in this House, that I admitted the secret vote for the protection of linguistic minorities and that I would use all the necessary tools that the Rules of Procedure allow... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] I said that even though they are an innovation... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] I said that the secret vote is allowed for the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Live comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Any link with other parts of amendments which require a clear vote cannot be right to include a secret vote on parts for which it is not permitted. [[Live comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] The secret vote was admitted for the protection of linguistic minorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u211	Mr President, I may not be able to make myself understood because of myself, so I would ask you to follow me with the text before me. If an amendment says'suppress this', 'add this','modify this', these are additional or amending amendments, etc. If you vote on the first part asking to replace the Head I with the following: and then, with a separate vote, vote . The laws for their election ensure respect for the gender balance and the protection of linguistic minorities, explain to me what this last sentence is based on? Adding? Replaces? Edit? What? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u212	The reason for this is the one who proposed it. My motivation, though... [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Senator Calderoli, I repeat that I have granted the secret vote for the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] That must be clear, because using the secret vote for votes that must be clear, as long as it is possible, I do not allow it. Then, I read the sentence in question: The laws for their election ensure respect for gender balance and the protection of linguistic minorities. Meanwhile, respect for gender balance is absorbed in the previous vote. , rapporteur. No, ma'am. Excuse me, there was a disquisition that lasted years compared to the difference between the expressions "women" and "men" and "genus" which are different. In fact, Mr Palermo made a request and we did not accept it. So we don't talk about the same theme. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not the problem, the problem is what that sentence is attached to. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. That's right, what you're hooking up to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know very well that, following the adoption of a law, if the amendment is adopted, because if it is not adopted the problem does not arise... Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. But I have to vote on it now, not in the end, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We now consider it, in the sense that the coordinating powers, which are then born when it is approved... Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Are you kidding me? Does he write the Constitution with coordination? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you read the amendment to Article 55 of the Constitution, Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Who said that was referred to Article 55? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is said in this amendment... Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. But which one? But where? FERRARA Mario (GAL). No! Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. In the first part of the amendments, we are dealing with Articles 55 and 56 of the reform: do we draw from it that we are dealing with Article 55? [[Applause from the LN-Aut eM5S and Senator Bocchino groups).]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It says: "In Article 55 of the Constitution... the following is inserted. , rapporteur. Where's it written? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the first part. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. But what if she fails? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the coordinating power, Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Are you kidding me? FERRARA Mario (GAL). He's not here!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk. [[Senators Uras, Martelli and Ferrara Mario indicate that they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u215	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I apologise, but I believe that direct dialogue of this kind between any Member of Parliament and the President is totally inappropriate. I think the president... [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senators Malan and Ferrara Mario. Comments of Senator Candiani]] I think that the Presidency should be respected by the House in its free and responsible determinations and that there can be no continuous attempt to stop its activity. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Senators Uras, Martelli and Ferrara Mario indicate that they want to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u216	Thank you, Senator Sacconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u219	VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. There was Martelli, President! Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer a question to my colleagues all, and in particular to Mr Calderoli, for a preliminary ruling. We have to decide how we are to act on this amendment and also on the subsequent amendments, because we have to agree on what we want and what the rules we want to enforce are. There are two options. You mentioned the first: we can use the co-ordination powers of the rapporteurs and it seems quite clear to me that the reference to Article 55 in this case would make it very clear; Then there is the parliamentary dialectic but, in short, from the formal point of view I see no problems. If, however, we want to go all the way and follow Mr Calderoli's logical reasoning, I invite him to consider the fact that, since there is no logical consequence between the first and second parts of this amendment, in the case of the abolition of the first part of the same automatically the second part will be precluded, neither will that part for which the secret vote was requested be voted. We have to decide which way to choose. [[Applause from Senator Angioni. Protests from the M5S Group and the Divine Senator).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u220	I put to the vote the proposal to vote for separate parts... [[There are protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Senator Martelli shows the Rules of Procedure and points out that he wants to speak.]] CHOIR OF VOICES FROM M5S AND LN-AUTS. You can't! You can't! FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). They're right! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These stage choirs don't seem adequate to me, absolutely.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk. [[There are protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! No! CIOFFI (M5S). Who is it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When any Holding Company requests to intervene, it has the right to have the floor. FERRARA Mario (GAL). I asked for it first! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do we have to finish this crazy thing or not? VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! [[Live, repeat protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u222	I would ask the quaestors to speak with the parliamentary assistants and I would ask the group leaders to bring their own groups back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u223	[[Senator Martelli's comments. Live, repeat protests from the M5S Group.]] URAS (Misto-SEL). Throw us out and vote for it yourself! Call the Army! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If anyone doesn't want to attend the rest of the session... [[Senator Airola's protests are alive.]] . - Let's talk. AIROLA (M5S). Please, please. WOMAN (M5S). Martelli was there before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A group leader asked for it first, and then everyone who asks for it will have the floor. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true! AIROLA (M5S). It's just him, basically. [[Senator Martelli stirs up the Rules of Procedure and points out that he wants to speak.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u224	Senator Martelli, please sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u225	MARTON (M5S). He's been asking for the floor for an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda, I gave you the floor, please. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, thank you. [[Whistles and repeated protests from the M5S Group. Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u226	Anyone who does not allow us to speak in this House goes outside. I'll make a call to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u227	MARTON (M5S). You! SANTANGELO (M5S). It's you! It's you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are now beginning to identify who is disturbing the order in this House. [[Reiterate protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor on a serious matter which takes very few minutes. In a democratic parliamentary republic, the interruption of the work of the constitutional bodies is one of the most serious behaviors that can be carried out. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta. Live, repeat protests from the M5S and Mixed-SEL groups. Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]] I want to say to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement that if they think they are changing the order of the proceedings of this House or if they think they are intimidating the Senators of the Democratic Party they are wrong! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta. Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] And I want to tell them that they can scream as much as they want, they can whistle, they can insult, but we will do our duty until the last minute! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio. Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] SIMONI (M5S). Shame! ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I ask you, because it is the functioning of the Senate, the first House of our country, to use all the powers that the Rules of Procedure make available to you to put an end to an intolerable gazzarre! I must say that I am very sorry to see a whole group of Members at this level of excitement, without control, screaming that we do not understand! [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Santangelo shows everyone the Constitution.]] None of us understand what they're saying, no one understands what they want! President, we want to work in this House and we want to work in peace, we want to discuss... CIOFFI (M5S). That's right! ZANDA (PD). ...talking to us, working out the arguments. We are talking about the Constitution and we are not at the stage. Please help us work as we want. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Di Biagio and Fravezzi. Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u228	Since I see that many senators hold the Senate Rules of Procedure, I would stress that we must vote on the proposal for a separate vote. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Then you will have the opportunity to speak on the vote of the party. [[Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]] I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote... [[Lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). (The sitting was closed at 9.00 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) I asked her for the floor, but she didn't give it to me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposal can be made by each senator... choir of words by the M5S group. You can't! You can't! DIVINE (LN-Aut). (He approaches the Presidency and shakes a copy of the Senate Rules of Procedure.) That ties you first! First the President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Calm down, Senator Divine. The Shareholders' Meeting shall decide by show of hands without discussion. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] That is the Rules of Procedure. The Assembly is sovereign. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). (It is approaching the Presidency's desk.) I'm a group leader, but you're stopping me from talking! BOTTICS (M5S). President, let the Leaders speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already explained this: first we vote on the request for a split vote here as well. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Do we want to resume or do we keep doing this? In order to respect the Rules of Procedure, there are two group leaders who, if they make the request to speak without raising their voices, will have the floor: one is Senator Mario Ferrara, the other is Senator De Petris. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] You have to let them talk. [[Senator Petrocelli points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Petrocelli is also here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, Senator Petrocelli, if you ask to speak, it's one thing, but in order to speak, you need to be heard, and so I ask you to tacitize your Group. Otherwise it will not be heard at all. Please, Senator Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u229	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. In your assurance to the House that the Heads of Groups requesting the floor may have it, allow me to urge the Offices, if they have not already done so, to do what I asked for. Your concession should not come now, after there has been a protest, but at the time when I checked that the ticket relating to my request for intervention had been placed on the desk. This means that she felt that she did not give me the floor: this is a serious enough fact that I must communicate to the House in my perception and that I hope it will never happen again. What I would have liked to say (perhaps in a calmer way and without the nervousness that is accumulating could somehow affect my speech) is that you have already tried to put a proposal to the vote. As Senator Calderoli has already meant, the proposals must have the chrysms of acceptability in order to be put to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] You, in order to put the proposal for a split vote to the vote, must make it clear to the House without a shadow of a doubt that this proposal is admissible. This does not seem to me to be the case and, at a time when it is not, you only have one option: to bring the Committee on the Rules of Procedure together so that we can decide on this. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bonfrisco.]] There is, however, another decision that must be taken now and forever, concerning what its powers are, pursuant to Article 103 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, from which it draws strength the coordinating power assigned to the Presidency and which I shall read to the House for those who less than myself or others deal with these aspects, since it specifically provides for the following: Before the final vote on a bill, the President, the representative of the Government or each Senator can draw the senate's attention to the corrections of form - not of substance, Mr President - and the changes of coordination that appear appropriate, and "coordination" means that one thing goes before and one goes after, that this is put here and there - and above those provisions already approved that seem to be in conflict with each other or irreconcilable with the purpose of the law. (i.e. when by mistake - and it happens so many times in the laws of stability, ex-financial - there is a rule that comes into conflict). What we are talking about is not in any of the three cases: you, at the moment, are arrogant of the ability, the prerogative and the ability, plus the power, to write the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The President of the Senate does not write the amendments, which are written by the senators instead! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] The Senate votes - and this is also addressed to the Government - in democracy, which is such a system for which the people elect their representatives, who, as elected by the people, are free to vote. That is not why they must be conditioned by the majority, who will have their rights, but they cannot have the arrogance to tell us how and when we have to vote! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] How much less can this arrogance belong to the President of the Senate, who should be the guarantor of democracy, blessed God! Yay, the nation! [[Senator Ferrara Mario puts a copy of the Constitution on the table. Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator D'Anna. Senator Centinario points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u232	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I hope that in this House there will be respect for all the Leaders when they raise their hand to intervene, because we have been wandering around here forever trying to get the floor. Since, in this particular case - as you know - this is an amendment of mine, I think it is appropriate, precisely for the order of business in this House, for you, in order to restore a civil climate, to give the floor to all the Leaders, because we still have the right to speak. You see, Mr President, it is clear to everyone that Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, does not need to be interpreted: it requires that, when a separate vote is required, this can be done only if each of the parties has its own logical meaning - I stress: logical - and a regulatory value of its own. Now, Mr President, the forcing in wanting to separate the two periods is evident to the most. We are simply asking for the application of our Rules of Procedure until it is changed; I am saying this because, as you know, the precedents are then heavy to manage and with these choices we are going to change it heavily. From this point of view, we believe that the two parts of this amendment cannot therefore be completely separated. Since I am the author of the amendment and because we have already voted for the respect of gender balance with anticipation, I believe it is in my power to propose a rewording in the following terms: Members of Parliament shall be elected by universal and direct suffrage, ensuring the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u233	This is the rewording. ( [[Senator Centinario points out that he wants to intervene.]] I would ask if anyone would like to speak on this. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'll speak to the group leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u236	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I asked to speak 17 minutes ago. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I tell you with great tranquility...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u237	If the House...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u238	[[Comments from the M5S Group]] PETROCELLI (M5S). The House is the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...it would have been heard already. PETROCELLI (M5S). If Mr Martelli had been allowed to speak, he would have said what Senator Ferrara Mario has already mentioned in a very specific way, remembering that he had been the subject of a precedent, in which he assessed himself before the eligibility and after the split vote. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] Now the issue, as well as being technical, is obviously political and on the political issue brought forward by President Zanda I want to dwell for a moment. All right, well, he can threaten the House... CARDINALI (PD). What the hell? PETROCELLI (M5S). I agree that he threatens the House with what he has said, but I would like to focus on one of his phrases. He said that this House wanted to work in peace: "We want to work in peace." But this House, even if it should work in peace, has the right in its parts to speak. We have the right to express ourselves. President Zanda's request to be able to work in peace must not lead to a condition of eternal peace at all. This House must not succumb. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Peace to a certain extent, President. But if we do not proceed as other precedents have already guaranteed, and if we continue to allow Senator Ghedini to read his task and do so in a wrong way [[Protests from the PD Group]] In other situations here, we certainly cannot guarantee peace. We intend to work seriously, but let us not say that we must work here in silence and exchange peace with silence. This political part does not allow it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.Senator Fornaro's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u241	[[Applause from Senator Volpi.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am smiling because, unfortunately, we have now realized that your gaze is on the other side: as soon as Senator Zanda raises his eyebrow, you have the floor. The moment Senator Centinario, who I think has the same rights as Senator Zanda's Parent Company, comes out like a marina... president. Senator Centinario, if the sight would allow me to see the eyebrow moving, I would be very happy. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Look, President, I'm also capable of just raising my eyebrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I don't see him. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). But I'm gonna shave my arms, and I'm gonna shave my arms right now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I always hope that the whole Presidency, including the Secretary Senators, will work together to point out to me who wishes to speak. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I wasn't saying goodbye to your collaborators or doing anything else. President Zanda compared a part of the Senate to the stadium and said he wouldn't want this to be a stadium. President Zanda, the problem is that when you are at the stadium and there is a game, the referee is impartial. The referee is not impartial right now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Companione]] Do you remember the face of all of us Italians when referee Moreno, during the match of Italy, was not impartial? At this point, therefore, I ask our President for impartiality, impartiality as President. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] I praised you at the Conference of Leaders, if you remember, for your impartiality. I would ask you to do the same in this House. I ask you not to be the one under the President-in-Office of the Council. You are the second office of the State, President [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] and not only represents President Zanda. To my colleague, Mr Russo, who said that if you split up according to Senator Ghedini's proposal, the second part of it cannot therefore be voted on, I would remind you that the second part is not that it cannot be voted on because everything must be kept, we explained it earlier. The problem is that I can't say the word coup and you fooled me, but all the professors you have there and who are on your side don't realize that the word "they" refers to the previous text? Does it take President Centinaire's ignorantton to explain this to you? You understand that because it is Italian, otherwise we start to speak our own language, our own dialect is perhaps people will understand why we cannot understand in this House. Gentlemen, the word 'their' refers to the preceding paragraph and must therefore be united. If you want to understand that, well, if you don't want to understand it, it's a lack of democracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you are talking about a text that has already been modified, because the word "their" no longer exists, according to Senator De Petris. So in the new text the word "they" is not there.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u244	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I do not know if I have missed anything or only the leaders can speak in this House. I hope not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On behalf of the Group, we must order... OF MAY (PI). Since it is a parliamentary debate, I believe I can speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact, he has the word. IN MAY (PI). That is simply why, Mr President. We can also put aside political issues, but on the issues of the Rules of Procedure, I do not believe that we can compromise. Then I would ask you, since we have two parts at stake here, that perhaps you should convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PI, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] This would serve a little to poison the souls in this House. Finally, I note, however, that a majority who is afraid of the secret vote of the two: either it is not a majority or has its Members blackmailed. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u247	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, by pointing out that it is our specific interest and understanding to ensure that the secret voting institution continues to apply to matters for which the Constitution provides and is not emptied of meaning through abuse, we continue to insist that the concepts mentioned also in the reformulation just presented by Senator De Petris are distinct concepts. In fact, it does not relate to the way in which Parliament is elected by universal and direct suffrage the protection of linguistic minorities for which the Constitution specifically provides for the secret vote. These are two forecasts that can and must be kept separate. Therefore, also in the new wording of Senator De Petris I ask her to vote for separate parts of the first paragraph starting from the words: "Replace Chapter I with the following: "Universal and direct suffragio"; then "Providing the protection of linguistic minorities" if I did not misunderstand the proposal of Senator De Petris; finally the part with paragraphs 2 to 5. I would point out, however, that if this distinction were not considered admissible, since the residual reference to the protection of linguistic minorities is clearly not prevalent in relation to all the subjects covered by the amendment, the principle of prevalence should apply. [[Applause from Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u250	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it will only take me a few seconds to say that if I were an ordinary citizen and I happened to look at the work of this Parliament, I would be led to think that this country is at a loss and that we are unable to get it out of the situation in which it finds itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u253	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order. Senator Ghedini is wrong because we are not called to decide on the matter here: we are not called upon to do this, but to decide first - indeed, you, President, are called to decide first of all - on the detachability of this amendment, as Rule 102 rightly states. It is up to you to decide this, Mr President, and there is no way out of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the legal substance of the part to be expunged. I would remind you of a precedent in which you, Mr President, told me that you could not put to the vote the proposal to proceed to the split vote because the Presidency considered that there was no legislative autonomy of the part that I wanted to expunge. The Rules of Procedure therefore speak clearly and there is no way out. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] You must first decide on the admissibility of the proposal in terms of the Rules of Procedure, and it is the Rules themselves that tell you that, if there is no legal basis, it is not possible to vote separately, regardless of the substance. We could in fact turn the argument of Senator Ghedini and say that the basic amendment had been written with its consistency and with its legislative logic and, as such, its preservation would have prevented the break-up. Finally, it is the adjective "universal" contained in the text of the amendment that protects linguistic minorities: only with the adjective "universal" are they protected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this is about merit, while we have to debate something else, which has nothing to do with content: it is the legal consistency that is not there. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u256	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we believe that your suggestion that we should never be instrumental should be accepted, but the acceptance that we make of this suggestion cannot be unilateral: the strongest in this House must not be instrumental. We are defending the right of linguistic minorities to be represented, in a framework of election of the Chambers, not of this House, but of the Chambers. In many cases, this is a subject which we also propose with amendments signed by members of more than one group. However, there is one question: these amendments, precisely to protect linguistic minorities, go through the secret vote. And then you cannot be instrumental when you are strong because, if you are strong, you cannot be afraid of the secret vote on linguistic minorities and their right to participate in the election of the Chambers! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Minzolini and Mussini.]] That is why I think that, in addition to technical reasons, there is a political foundation and that we cannot accept this continuous acrobatics, in the idea that the only thing that must be rejected here is the right to the free expression of conscience of each of the members of this House! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Nine hundred secret vows are expected: what do we want to do? Nine hundred times this pantomime? Have the courage to face the problem now! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If you're there, beat him! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u259	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to try to accept Mr Uras' invitation not to be instrumental and to try, if I can, to speak to us in the language of truth. I am a senator elected to a college in Trentino, Valsugana, where there are three linguistic minorities: the Ladin minority... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). So how did he get elected up there? [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u260	Senator Palma, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u261	TONINI (PD). Yeah, I was elected up there. I don't understand what's wrong. I said: the Ladin minority, the Mochen minority and the Cimbrian minority. I am very much in favour of the principle and value of linguistic minorities and, therefore, I will certainly vote in favour of a rule which provides for the protection of linguistic minorities. On the other hand, I strongly disagree with the idea that we should continue to vote for the Senate by direct universal suffrage; I respect the opinion of those who, on the other hand, say that we must continue to vote for it by direct universal suffrage, but I do not share this choice. It is clear that the amendment has been constructed intelligently, but, if it is claimed to vote on it in a unified manner, it puts the President in front of a choice between violating the Rules of Procedure in substance (as the Rules prevent the principle of direct election or not of the Senate from voting secretly) and forcing the Rules of Procedure in the form, seeking a way out through drafting. These, if they want to be honest, seem to me to be objectively the terms of the matter in the field. I'd like to tell my colleague Di Maio... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] . I apologize, Senator Di Maggio. I would like to say to Mr Di Maggio that I do not intend to hide in the secret vote, because I want the citizens and my constituents, to whom I promised that I would work and fight for a Senate other than the current one (in fact, a Senate of the self-governments, which goes beyond the principle of election by direct universal suffrage, which would remain the fundamental principle of the House), to know how I voted, in perfect coherence with the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes this obligation, namely that each of us can respond to the citizens of how he voted on this crucial point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I demand the right to be able to say out loud and out of my head how I behaved in this vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I would like to remind you that in other circumstances, even when the Constitution prescribed the secret vote (there is only one case where the Constitution prescribes it and it is that for the election of the President of the Republic), the friends and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement have made a campaign against the secret vote, just when that principle is established by the Constitution! The Rules of Procedure protect my right to vote on universal suffrage in a clear way, as they must protect my right to vote against the vote by universal suffrage of the Senate and in favour of the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Martelli shows a copy of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u264	SCHIFANI (NCD). Mr President, it is my conscience that leads me to speak and I do so after having thought about it for a long time, following this debate. I am reminded of difficult moments in this House - particularly with other colleagues when I was the leader of the People of Freedom - when she, Mr President, was strong in an interpretative formula that had to give her the Junta for the Rules of Procedure, without innovating the Rules of Procedure itself which governed the hypothesis of the secret vote on the decadence of one of our Members, Silvio Berlusconi, unable to innovate the Rules of Procedure because the procedure would have been very articulated, she gave an opinion under which she changed the interpretive practice, allowing us to vote in a clear way on the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi, where, among other things, there were all the prerequisites for talking about the conscience of Members. Let us not forget that every time we are called upon to accept or not to accept the resignation of a colleague, we are voting in a secret way because it must be our conscience that decides. This is a principle that we have always respected. Well, on that occasion - allow me, Mr President, with respect for this House, because I am loyal to practice and I believe it is the heritage of all of us and of the history of this Senate to adhere to a practice, even lexical, respectful of all the Italians who voted for us and, therefore, of a language of which we must respond to the Italians - we had access to a hypothesis I had the choice of a majority, strong in its interpretation. There was a moment of tension. Today, almost by overturning the parties, we are called to push, to make sure that the idea is passed that we should secretly vote on a principle that postulates the need for total clarity. And I am sorry that all those in this House who were fighting for the clear vote on Silvio Berlusconi's decadence are fighting for the secret vote today. Then we must be respectful of the coherence of all of us. We must remember that when it comes to conscience it is right to vote secretly, when it comes to talking about politics, about choosing our future institutions, we have to respond to the country, we have to say clearly what we want. Do we want to change these institutions? Well, we have to tell the Italians with a clear vow in front of everyone and not with a vow behind which to hide the ambushes that the Italians do not like. Well, as the secret vote was avoided at the time of Berlusconi's decline, I think that this Parliament, Mr President - apart from the technical regulations, beyond the procedures for merging or not the periods, the phrases said or not said - must make a political choice. We are called before the Italians to say whether or not we want to change the institutions and not paralyze our activity. The country looks at us, we're consistent. And I turn to those colleagues who, months ago, felt differently about the admissibility of the clear or secret vote when it came to declaring a person's forfeiture. No, our history requires coherence and courage to say what I am saying! [[Applause from the NCD and FI-Pdl XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u267	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, they are speaking not on the regulatory issue but on a personal basis. I believe that the Senators of the Democratic Party also deserve respect from other colleagues like Senator Di Maggio. There is no one in this group who is blackmailed. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] Mr President, let me say, since the Italians are following this debate - and you, among other things, have been defined as the referee Moreno, and I would have been slightly offended, since the referee Moreno after having lost the game to Italy has also been arrested on drugs issues; however, everyone is free to declare what he wants, but I would have been offended - that I am no longer available, and I think I speak on behalf of many of my colleagues, if not of the totality, to hear from the benches of those who think otherwise than we would be blackmailed, and it is not clear who: by the President of the Council? That is unacceptable. Use other arguments. We are ready to vote in the light of day. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u270	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the day began with a call from Senator Chiti to reduce the obstructionist amendments and to focus on six or seven subjects, which would have allowed this House to discuss in depth the issues that are most under discussion and on which perhaps there is still no unanimity - probably an in-depth debate would have allowed room for improvement - and a country that I do not know if it is seeing live in our work, but certainly has a sense of what is happening here. We now find ourselves unable to do what Senator Chiti had imagined as the path of this day and probably also of the next ones, because there was no decision: the Government seems to have failed to respond to the requests of the oppositions and these seem not to have met the demands of the Government. Let's pretend that this unsuccessful attempt today can be re-proposed in the next few days and we hope that in the next few days this can happen, once the problem has dissolved whether the egg or the hen was born first. However, the problem we have now is the result of your decision, Mr President, because, if we can perhaps resolve the issue of amendment 1,28, we will probably have to deal with the same problem, given the long list of amendments on which the secret vote is scheduled; that said, on page 804 of the file of amendments there is an amendment with which this account cannot be made. Then we'll stop that day. I am referring to Senator Candiani's amendment (1.0.22), which is inseparable. Any virtuosity Senator Ghedini can imagine for that amendment, we will not dissolve that node that day. And then, Mr President, I have the impression that this House must take note of an irresolvable situation. Senator Tonini is right, Senator Schifani is also right: we take a serious decision, we take note of our impossibility to continue the path in the terms in which it was proposed, with the amendments as designed and with the decision that you, Mr President, have taken to put to secret vote the parties that under the Rules of Procedure can be put to a secret vote. At this point, or you are fully responsible for saying that the consequences, even literal, semantic, regulatory, content and terms of applicability of your decision can be brought to the extreme consequences, in the sense that this is and can be done, or we decide once and for all that we do not accept that there are secret votes on a constitutional review process. We, with great clarity and great transparency, manifest our awareness and our conviction of the issues that are on the agenda and we take charge of them with respect to our conscience and in front of the country. However, to continue in this debate, which will be repeated in exactly the same terms in the coming weeks and months because it does not come out of this situation I do not see any point in it. I therefore appeal to the sense of responsibility of all, first of all to yours, Mr President, who took this decision probably without assessing the consequences. I do not think that when you took the decision you did not check the amendments and how they were designed, nor that the offices did not tell you that it would be difficult to vote separately on the amendments as they are written, especially one. Therefore, or let us loose that node in the seat which you consider most appropriate, your Presidency or, as someone has said, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and let us make sure that the decision is taken in that place once and for all, or knowingly we decide that everything is voted with a clear vote, because I think it is the only possible and understandable passage both on our part and on the part of the public. [[Applause from Senators Marin and Bianconi. Senator D'Anna points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u273	[[Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u274	Excuse me, I have the secretary senators who help me in the difficult task of establishing the order of intervention. That's the order they gave me. I call Senator Volpi. D'ANNA (GAL). I'd booked before Volpi! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, but they gave me this order of intervention. D'ANNA (GAL). I mentioned to your staff and sent the parliamentary assistant! What do I do? Do I have to send a traveling pigeon? Awake! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please do not address those who work with me in this way, because it is also an offense to me. Have a seat. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] Please, Senator Volpi, intervene. VOLPI (LN-Aut). When colleagues allow me. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] Senator D'Anna, you cannot know if Senator Volpi asked before or after to intervene. D'ANNA (GAL). I asked before. I warned the clerk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, you have the right to intervene. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, obviously President Romani has made an assessment... [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] Senator D'Anna, allow Senator Volpi to intervene. I'll call you back to order. It can't go on like this. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Allow me to make a few remarks which I think make sense. I have listened to the speeches of my colleagues and I thank Senator Tonini who allows me to disagree with him for how I imagine the election of the Senate. I have no problem voting clearly what I think. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] I apologize to my colleague, but I would like to be able to speak, Mr President. We have come to this debate in this House after special situations have arisen. I call them "particular" because I think they are, and maybe they are special. The request for a secret vote, regardless of some interpretations, makes sense even a little'special because of what happened. Mr Candiani made a logical point earlier on. We are not afraid to vote clearly, Mr Schifani, but I think we should forget the Berlusconi affair and remember that of the Commissions. I believe that, as a free senator, I must be in a position to assure other senators, perhaps more conditioned, of being able to express their opinion. And I'm not talking about blackmail, because I would offend senators and a party like PD, but it's also true, President Zanda, that some have happened. Will you give me notice? Is it true or not that senators in the Commission have been replaced? [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] Although it is permissible for a Group to say that representation in the Commission must be proportional to the representation of the party in that House, I believe, then, that our duty is also to imagine the state of mind of those senators who, in that condition, have been replaced. So, Mr Schifani, is there a vote of freedom because we are all able to express it or should we say that everyone must be able to express it? I am genuinely convinced of that. Some may also think that we have tabled the amendments on purpose. That said, President Zanda, the attempt that President Sacconi made earlier was quite miserable. Here we all play our cards, but that doesn't mean that on some principles we have to let it go! Mr President, allow me to make an assessment. I do not call you back to the Rules of Procedure and ask you whether or not a sentence is together, but I say to you: let us try to keep Parliament together in relation to the Constitution, because we are not looking at a simple measure. I cannot be told about drafting about words that the constituents had weighed one by one in the Constitution, while here it is said that we will then go to formal coordination. That's not possible! On the contrary, anything is possible, but it can also be undignant for Parliament to imagine that it is derogating itself in a serious debate even with respect to a single word of the Constitution. Unless we forgot all our personal stories - and I wouldn't like to list all the friends and acquaintances I know the story of - to be children of nothing today! If someone here thinks that he has become a child of nothing I, President, am not in it: I am a son of a political history, I continue to represent politics and I would like to leave something that made sense, and not nothing! I therefore ask the dignity of everyone, but also of the Presidency, to allow this to be done by means of rules that allow everyone to express their vote with serenity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u277	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I do not dispute the issue of bookings to speak, but I should like to point out that I had been asked to send the parliamentary assistant to send her my request, which, as I have seen, has been addressed to her collaborators. You see, one of the most recurrent accusations that have been made to those who have amended the bill of constitutional reform of the Senate, both by the President of the Council and by authoritative press commentators, even the one on the right, was that we had represented ourselves as a handful of defenders of our own armchair and that through the institute of obstructionism, therefore the specious recourse to the Rules of the Senate, we wanted to delay the future and progressive fate of the great Renzi, called the rover before and the reformer after. Today, contrary to what I have heard very politely from both Senator Tonini and Senators Schifani and Romans themselves, the real truth is coming out (allow me this cacophony), that is that the whole game is played on the electivity of the Senate. It is true that there is malice in that amendment, but there is even more malice, dear Tonini, if not a pretense hypocrisy on your part. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] in saying that you did not understand that we want the secret vote because in dissent in a Senate of nominations and with a reform that will be nominated of the nominations, you are afraid to express yourself apertis verbis. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella. Comments of Senator Tonini]] ). This is a shame! On February 14, 1954, if I am not mistaken - and I call Senator Chiti to correct me - the 20th Congress of the Soviet Communist Party took place. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. It was 1956. D'ANNA (GAL). I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with PCUS congresses. ( [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] ). Krushchev there had to report the crimes of Stalinism. As he denounced these things, from the bottom of this immense audience of delegates, a voice rose: And you, Comrade Krushchev, where were you in Stalin's day? Krushchev turned towards Tonini ( [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] ) or to this person and said: "Who said that? Get up, let me see who you are? No one stood up, then Krushchev said, "I was then where you are now." The truth then is that, lively, thanks to the so-called obstructionism and the so-called opposition expressed through the amendments is coming out in the eyes of the press and public opinion the true nature of the clash between those who want the Italian people to be able to choose the senators, and then the Members, and those who deny it strongly. What Senator Schifani says is worth nothing: I might object to him that I wanted the secret vote for Berlusconi and I would still like it now; it is he who has something incongruent in his behavior, not me. But why the secret vote? What is this saying: Let's assume responsibility before the nation? But why, when elections are held, do people vote outdoors or in the secret of the urn? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella and Simeoni]] This recurring clown of the secrecy of the vote is a guarantee for the voter. TONINI (PD). It's not in the Rules of Procedure! D'ANNA (GAL). The secrecy of the vote was one of the hinges that were introduced to defend the voter from the repercussions of the powerful, dear Tonini! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed and Mixed-ILC Groups]] We are about to vote on a reform which will put the life of Parliament in the hands of two, three, with the nominations of these people, and with 25% of those entitled to vote, will give it all the power. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] I'll make you the proposal, which I am palmarès in this areopagus of great politicians: cassate, Minister Boschi, what you have written, introduce the word "elective" and we are finished, we all go to the beach! Or do something else: leave things as they are and write that the President of the Republic elects himself by universal suffrage, because if one of the guarantees fails, this people will have to do something, that does not put, dear Esposito, outside the door of Berlusconi or Renzi or Grillo, [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] to be the most faithful and obedient to be recompensed. What is paraded before us and the Italian people - not for me, who have an age for which I do not care much - is that you will bring here Reggician courtiers, invertebrates, people who do not have the courage to say what they think and to argue it! [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] We should all be ashamed, both those who propose the secret vote and those who propose the secret vote as an expedient are afraid because they know that, only out of subjection and piousness, with the clear vote many people would vote for a proposal that is indecent and improbable like this one that is expected. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u280	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we are now accustomed to the hypocrisy that often exudes in this House, and not only that, but we knew it even before we entered here. However, after hearing Senator Tonini discover today, in July 2014, the importance of the clear vote, the importance that citizens know what their elected representatives decide and vote in the Chamber, perhaps it is appropriate to remember that up to now the only political force, the only Group that proposed the amendment of the Rules, already last year, is the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am sorry for Senator Tonini, who is obviously the victim - let's also say - of an obsession with the 5 Star Movement. I always follow you carefully, Senator Tonini, and I notice that four out of five surgeries have us as an apparent target, but this goes in our favor (also the slip on Di Maio is very symptomatic). Senator Tonini, I invite you to relax for a moment and see things with greater objectivity. Speaking again about the secret vote, which, I repeat, to you and to your party, obviously has always been good up to now, perhaps it is also worth reminding Senator Schifani and my colleague Romani that the too often recalled case of the decadence of former Senator Silvio Berlusconi concerned the interpretation of an article of the Rules of Procedure - although President Palma makes a sign of refusal, it is so - that is the application of the third paragraph of Rule 113; therefore a situation completely different from that which was the subject of attention and evaluation of the President when he admitted the secret vote for that series of amendments. What we always say - and besides saying we do - is that laws must be respected when they are there. So it was for Berlusconi: without changes or regulatory forcings, but according to the correct interpretation the clear vote was decided; Today, in the current Rules of Procedure, that we want to change - and only we, as colleagues from other parties think - the assessment has been made on the eligibility of the secret vote. Moreover, although we have appreciated the sympathetic intervention of Senator D'Anna, we must also remember here perhaps that in the case of the 5 Star Movement, our total freedom is guaranteed by the fact that here we do not have Grillo or anyone else who decides the lists: we are the only movement that the primary has made them and in a completely transparent way, and we do not have party capibastones or secretariats. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] I'm sorry, but you must resign yourselves to this reality!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u281	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u282	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u283	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak first of all in order to make a somewhat bitter point, since what I feared was happening, which was predictable and which, without success, we had tried to avoid. I have the state of mind that described Senator Bondi just now (to quote an opposing senator). In fact, we are faced with a crisis and a situation of impotence. This leads to a general discredit and not the clarity of a battle. Therefore, I would like to make a further appeal, as far as it counts, to all those who have made it impossible to make a different evolution possible, so that there may be reflection. We are on the first day and it seems to me that the fact that we are continuing in this way certainly has negative effects. There is, then, a second question on which I have asked to speak. I know you can ask for the secret vote. The request for a secret vote is not a sign of cowardice, nor of illegitimacy. If you look at the acts of the Constituent, you can verify that most of the votes were made by secret vote. However, those who want to ask for it must refer, as has been done by some, to procedures, to regulatory substance, to coordination and so on. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not ask to protect the senators of the Democratic Party who think differently because we do not need them. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella]] ). I repeat, we don't need it! They protect the rules, the values of our party and our Group that are based on pluralism (as you can see, I have not been deported!) and above all, all together, we are protected by the Constitution, by the mandate it entrusts to parliamentarians. In fact, as my colleagues in my parliamentary group know, as the President of my Group knows, also because I believe that this is not new and that it does not undermine trust and mutual esteem, I - I am speaking for myself because there is no constitutional current - on the vote that will concern the direct election of the senators, when it will concern it, whether it is obvious or secret, I will vote in favour of direct election. [[Applause from Senators Gatti and De Petris]] This is what I have supported, with freedom and conviction, without pretending to have the truth revealed, in recent months. So, I don't have to be protected. I repeat that I protect the Constitution and I am well in my party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u286	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would also like to respond to my colleague, Mr Romani, who has put an issue in relation to the stalemate that is taking place over the hours and the difficulty of moving forward and finding a political sense in the debate we are holding tonight. Senator Romani said he doesn't know if the egg or the chicken was born first. The sense is that one does not understand if the wall and - precisely - the incommunicability have been produced following the events of the last days and where this incommunicability is born. I am a little tired, and I say this with great force, also addressing my colleagues in the Democratic Group. A short while ago I read the statements made by an authoritative member of the Democratic Party, who is also present in the Chamber today (he is a member of the Government), that using a language, this yes, really old, dated, ancient and surpassed by the political facts that have been produced over the last few months, he considered to blackmail - this time yes - a small party, that is Left Ecology and Freedom, even claiming that a dissent such as that which is being measured in this House on some fundamental issues concerning the democracy of the country, the Constitution and some essential nodes, may have repercussions on the municipality such of those rather than on the region such of such. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We, then - I want to say very clearly - are not only divided, as has been said, and not only do we not bow to this accusation, which seems wrong and instrumental to us, but we would also like to say something that concerns the egg and the hen. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have tabled 6,000 amendments in this debate, but it was not we, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who told the country this enormous falsehood, namely that the constitutional reform under consideration would solve Italy's problems. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] We did not use propaganda on a serious situation like this, nor did we tell those who did not think like us that that thought was the bearer of the will not to change things or, worse still, to defend even who knows what position of privilege. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, it was not we who entered into pacts - these yes - secrets: it is even said that the pacts entered into during the past months between the very important parties of our political landscape have been written and that in them, to the detriment of this Parliament, the fate of our Republic has been decided in another place - not this one of the Republican Parliament. This really is a secret pact, not exactly the secret vote we are discussing today. We have said from the outset that we have been willing to remove the amendments and try to avoid this logic of wall against wall, but we can overcome the stalemate that is once again happening in this House, not because of the amendments of the Left Ecology and Freedom, but because of an attitude that did not want to seek any kind of discussion with oppositions, preferring to mark its members as owls, enemies of change and defenders of privileges. If that, then, is the subject, it is clear that there is no chance of this debate going on. I move yet another appeal to the Government, the same that we launched a few hours ago in a press conference right here in the Senate: in the course of the hours that will come, we work to understand whether there are conditions for finding high mediating elements that allow us to get out of this stalemate. Let's do it for Italy and for the country, but let's disband all the elements of propaganda! I know you have such a media force that newspapers and televisions will allow you to say that a small party, which has obtained 3% of the votes, is trying to block the democratic life of this country with 6,000 amendments. However, I invite you to give up this element of propaganda to the full: you can do it, it is in your readiness, you have the media power to do it, but you will not do a service to the country, nor to the democracy and constitutional architecture that we must build and that will probably, over the next fifty years, be the result of tonight's debate. President Zanda has said this, as I have done so many times over the past few weeks: we are not discussing here an electoral law that changes every three years, but the architecture of the country and reforms that will probably not simply confront Italian citizens today, but even our children and grandchildren. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] If the price of this debate is therefore so high, I repeat, stop to reflect on these points, do not consider those who express a doubt or perplexity as an enemy of change. Instead, you enter into the substance of some of the issues that we have been discussing and which we have been talking about for many months: you, like us, cannot allow the future to be a Parliament of nominations; you, like us, cannot at the same time afford to imagine a second level mechanism in the Senate and one like Italicum in the House. You cannot allow yourself to block the institutions of direct democracy. We say this once again: we are entirely prepared to discuss this matter. The thing you cannot ask us, however, because not only do we send it back to the sender, but also because the dignity and history of a serious political battle that we are doing in this House is the unconditional surrender. The surrender without conditions will not be there. There will simply be a strong political proposal asking the parliamentary majority and the Democratic Party to stop and discuss our proposals. Our proposals are common sense. These are proposals of which many today are shared by a significant part of public opinion. Discuss this and you will see that the wall against the wall will not be there and it will be much easier not only to find a mediation between us, but to do something positive for our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u289	CASINI (PI). Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will have to bring the debate back exactly to its size, and I think that Senator Chiti's intervention, which, as usual, beyond the positions, is an example of seriousness and commitment in this House, has brought us exactly to the extent of the situation. First of all, it is useless that we use inappropriate words: it is clear that this is a harsh political battle and it is also clear that, starting from the 5 Star Movement to end with SEL, you are doing your legitimate political battle, accompanied by so many amendments that it is in your right-duty to present. Secondly, you do well - and I would do the same if I were in your position - to ask for amendments to be put to the vote which you have also presented with some malice, because they include various arguments, globally, without breaking, because this is what is required on the basis of legal consistency. It does well in the same way and does its job, which is another, even Senator Ghedini in asking what obviously all those who are interested in carrying out this reform would ask, namely to proceed with the vote separately. Excuse me, but we are not to be offended here, because everyone is legitimately pursuing his proposals in this House. The point, if I may, is that in the end, if there is a rule and if this House does not want to be ridiculed globally, there must be a regulatory capacity to bring this debate to an end, which in this way becomes endless and absolutely counterproductive for all, even for those who make a legitimate opposition, which will be pointed out as the one who only wants to oppose, perhaps with the arguments that Mr De Cristofaro has brought. This is a very simple matter, and it is a question of whether this amendment should be voted on separately and whether the separate part with which the secret vote is called for is standing with respect to the other two. It is clear that underneath there is the theme of the electivity or not of the Senate, but I want to abstract myself from the merit. At this point - if you will allow me, Mr President - I call the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which, by putting the word 'end' into effect, comes to a resolution. The Council for the Rules of Procedure decides to proceed in one way or another; the majority, no less than the opposition, takes its risks. It is obvious that, if the Committee on the Rules of Procedure says that a party is to be voted on by secret ballot, it is to be voted on by secret ballot; in the absence of a decision by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Senate, who must be respected in the solitude of his decision at the moment, individually assumes the responsibility of saying what is going on and we make our explanations of vote and continue the debate. At this point, by this evening, if we are not able to proceed at least to these first votes in the manner of the decision taken in the Junta or the solitary decision of the President, we all make a very bad figure. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u291	If I'm not mistaken, you've already spoken. However, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u292	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). I have not spoken, Mr President, and thank you for giving me the floor. It seems to me that this has two aspects that are illustrated by others: one is that of the form which is of fundamental importance here; the respect of procedures within this House obviously guarantees the minority. Alternatively, the majority voting from time to time could overcome everything. And here we are entrusted to you as a minority and as the guarantor above all of the minority that would otherwise not have the strength to enforce those regulations that protect you. Then there is a matter of substance that many colleagues have called for. The Senate, this Republic, cannot be reformed in this way, with a fierce battle between two sides because even when these two parties reach the numerical majority in this House it is not a majority such as to guarantee that pact between all the citizens that the Constitution must be. It is essential that no more yelled counterpositions like the ones we have seen in the previous minutes occur here or outside. In order to do this, we need to respect one side towards the other and we need to understand that these blessed rules that we are going to amend today are accepted or considered acceptable by the vast majority of Italians, not by a numerical majority. This is fundamental, and this must be understood by everyone in this House and outside, where, unfortunately, the Government continues in these minutes to send out signals denouncing the members of this House and the House as a whole. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to guarantee us all, because at the moment you are the protection of the minority in this House. Of course, by ensuring that the Rules of Procedure are respected in substance as well as in form, in spirit as well as in words, I ask all of my colleagues to take on this which is a very simple truth: the Constitution that would emerge from this debate must be felt as something that belongs to everyone and cannot be imposed on one side. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u295	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I will keep the tones more moderate than before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. CRIMI (M5S). There would be a solution to all this: it would be sufficient for the government to state clearly that the House is sovereign and that whatever decision the House takes and therefore the Democratic Party is sovereign and that this does not affect government action. Instead, we have witnessed in all the work of the Commission and the House an arrogance of the Government. And I am not referring to the rapporteurs and the Democratic Party, but to this arrogance, to the imposition. That is the only gesture that would allow this House, under any conditions, to vote with freedom of conscience. The vote with freedom of conscience would perhaps be the solution to all this exasperation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u298	Yours is the last intervention, Senator, then you will move on to the decision. MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, in order to facilitate the decision, however, let me disagree with what Senator Crimes has proposed because, as far as I am concerned, if there is one person who does not have to take a position on everything we have discussed so far, it is precisely the Government, and I understand. The government has made its contribution by presenting a bill. At the time when this was taken over by the rapporteurs in the parliamentary committee, it was parliamentarians. But do we realize that we do Assemblies, during which we ask the government to express itself as if we were in front of decree-laws that eventually require a vote of confidence? It is Parliament that is the protagonist of this reform. [[Applause from the PI, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] I would therefore like us to put aside for a moment this complex of inferiority vis-à-vis the Government, which has also told us important things today, including, for example, that there is a majority and opposition in democracy. While taking advantage of these suggestions, I would like us, for a moment, to become the protagonists and become the protagonist of Parliament and those who represent it in its integrity, having the courage to take unavoidable decisions. [[Applause from the PI, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u299	I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on Amendment 1.28 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ghedini Rita. I invite all senators to reach their seats quickly. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). But what are we voting for? What do we vote for? Montevecchi (M5S). But the amendment has been reworded! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u302	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, there has just been a vote on an amendment for which, among other things, I have tabled a new text. I asked her in vain to know exactly how the text of the amendment would be divided. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I also explained this to Senator Centinario who was talking about their own: I made it clear that the text had been changed. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You see, Mr President, you have now led the House to vote on something that no longer exists. I have reworded and deposited the new text of the amendment, in which the term 'they' is no longer present. I would therefore like to know what was put to the vote. The vote that has just taken place has therefore decided to vote on the first part of the amendment: Members of Parliament shall be elected by universal and direct suffrage. At this point, without an interruption, without a comma and without anything, the second part would sound like this, starting with a gerund: "Ensuring the protection of linguistic minorities". Mr President, I am saying this because you yourself were wrong earlier about the amendment. As you can see, the text had been reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I wasn't wrong: I corrected Senator Centinario. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The amendment has been reworded, so the House has been forced to vote on something different. Then there are many professors and teachers, but it would be quite enough even a teacher... AIROLA (M5S). Elementary! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). ...of elementary schools, but also of kindergarten (because children are very awake today) to explain that it is a bit difficult to make such a separation of text, unless it is done in an absolutely surreptitious way. We can't have the Senate voted on a severed sentence. Otherwise we could also ask for the separate adjective vote for adjective, word for word. I don't know if that's acceptable. But the effect is the same: you have made the House express a split vote in which the first part stands and the second part is not standing at all, because they are absolutely linked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you're done... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is obvious to everyone in Italian language. We reiterate that in this case we are voting not only on the elective Senate but also on the Chamber: it is said that Members of Parliament are elected by universal suffrage, guaranteeing the protection of linguistic minorities, which is exactly the purpose of our Rules of Procedure, when it says, without delay, that all questions relating to linguistic minorities must be put to the secret vote, referring precisely to Article 6 of the Constitution. The question, Mr President, is absolutely not secondary. I say this very calmly, but the senators cannot be mocked and called to vote on a part of an amendment that is not standing alone. I believe that this is a matter of respect for the intelligence of each of us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Do you intend to proceed with the vote at this time, despite everything? What exactly would be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u303	First of all, I would like to point out to you that there has been a vote in this House. Secondly, it has also been said that I have used courage to admit the secret vote on the amendments on the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Comments of the Divine Senators and Volpi]] As I pointed out when I read the speech on my decision on the secret vote, I intend to admit - in keeping with all the demands of this House, which is sovereign - the secret vote only on all the amending proposals concerning the protection of linguistic minorities. So now... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But we can't... president. Let me finish. I didn't give her the floor. I cannot, on such an important subject as that of direct universal suffrage which this morning was placed as one of the fundamental issues by President Chiti and on which a broad debate took place, giving everyone the opportunity to speak, to grant the secret vote. For me, it would mean denying what I decided on the secret vote. I'd like that to be clear to everyone. The House has already voted on the split vote. The House will now vote... [[Protests from the M5S Group. Numerous senators ask to intervene]] Let me make one thing clear... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I cannot accept that you are being submitted to the President. We need to be clear. We cannot have a debate of hours, allowing everyone to speak, and then every time we withdraw the amendment at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u304	Mr President, I have accepted your requests, so much so that I have interpreted them through the transformation of the text of the amendment to ensure your choice and to link Parliament's elections by direct vote - because for the House it has not been changed - to the protection of minorities so that the concept was even more stringent. It is clear, in fact, that we are not generally voting on the protection of linguistic minorities but, as provided for in the spirit of Article 6 of the Constitution, we are voting on the need to guarantee minorities, at a time when a new structure for Parliament is being set up with a small number of Members, as provided for in my amendment. That is why I have tied the two concepts even more closely. Since my transformation of the amendment, Mr President, to give more strength to its correct decisions is being put to the vote by separate parties, I do not think I can put the House to a vote in which part of the amendment does not even have the subject, and this is for the sake of respect for the intelligence of everyone and the Rules of Procedure themselves. So, out of respect for this House, I have the right to withdraw the amendment and to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u305	Amendment 1.28 (text 2) is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u306	Mr President, I would ask you to do so and to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u307	Senator Russo, the amendment has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u308	Mr Russo (PD). As withdrawn, I accept the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, the amendment has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. [[Protests from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u311	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I too am voting for the amendment, because the House has the right to vote after hours of debate. We have the right to vote. CORI FROM THE M5S GROUP. You can't! You can't! You can't!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u314	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is practically three and a half hours that we are always debating the same thing, by engaging in interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, and dealing with issues relating to the text of the amendments. Mr President, I believe that the speech by President Romani just now was absolutely correct and acceptable, as was the speech by President Casini. The political problem is known to all, such as the reasons for the political confrontation. But you, as President of the Senate, simply have to regulate the work. And President Casini is right: if the problem that normally comes to the attention of individual speakers cannot be solved directly by you, by means of your decision - and so it seems not to be because you have repeatedly asked the House for a vote - I imagine, Mr President, that you have done so because you believe that there are problems of a regulatory nature. But if that is the case, as President Casini said, you call this Council for the Rules of Procedure, which, in the presence of all the groups, will take the decisions that it intends to... (The President is giving his attention to the staff of the Offices). Thank you, Mr President, it was just a contribution, but you don't need it. Do as you like. [[Senator Palma voluntarily closes the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u316	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). That's incredible, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Palma, I'm listening. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). On such a delicate subject I try to carry out an intervention simply to participate and help find a solution and... I do not want substantial attention from you, but at least formal: you cannot speak and see your head turned to the other side of the Presidency! A minimum of courtesy, the same that you often ask the individual senators, so much to say that you would have given the floor to a Parent Group only if the request had been made in a low voice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, as you know, things can happen... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Courtesy has round-trip circuits. Suit yourself!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u317	All right, thanks. Since a few comments have been made on the turn of the agenda, I would like to read an opinion from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 13 May 2009, to which Senator Russo may also refer: In accordance with practice, when the proposer withdraws an amendment to turn it into an agenda pursuant to Rule 95 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the other signatories may not request the vote of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u320	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I have a question for you at this point. In the face of a parliamentary practice such as that which has been produced for three and a half hours, that is, with a broad debate on amendments which have been presented for a long time and for which there should have been only an explanation of vote here, even at the time when a split vote was proposed and a debate developed without limits and without criteria, I ask you, as a majority Member: when and how do you think it is possible for this House to express itself on the text approved by the Commission, after three months of long and fruitful work? I reverse the question: tell us how it is possible to interrupt a practice, the one adopted by Senator De Petris, potentially infinite, that could infinitely paralyze our work. I expect an authoritative answer! [[Ironic applause from the Mixed-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u321	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u323	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, as Senator Di Maggio mentioned earlier, then very authoritatively, by President Casini, by Senator Palma, now also by Senator Sacconi, perhaps it would be good for us to bring together the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and even if an opinion were to hesitate to make a systematic statement by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, reminding the House that, if we were to ask, among the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, to vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure by clear vote, we should do so with the secret vote, as is envisaged in these cases. I'm surprised, I didn't arouse any laughter! You are talking and thinking about things that admit ex nunc the need for secrecy. When you speak of Rules of Procedure, rules, coexistence and democratic participation, you do not realize that you speak - and I wanted to do so with reference to the Rules of Procedure - of the need for a secret vote. Today they are sophistrying and they say: You were the ones who were voting secretly the other time. Now, because we have to vote clearly, we can make the opposite reasoning. This is called sophistry; this in classical culture, the Senator D'Anna teaches me, is sophistry: that is, not to seek the truth, but to seek, through the opposition of thesis and antithesis, to cancel the dialectic; not to seek the agreement of the opposites and the permanence in the truth, but to say the false in order to give feedback to one's own conviction when one's conviction is not true, but only to point out and externate something of which one is not convinced and which one wants to do specifically in art. At this point the problem is to decide, given the reasoning made by Senator Tonini, given the needs posed by the very good Senator Ghedini, given the authoritative support of Senator Zanda, whether what you are looking for is a sophism or the reaffirmation of communism. When we were young people, when we were talking about secret voting, democracy and the West were invoked; when we were denying the secrecy of voting, we were always talking about the Communist Party, Eastern Europe, Moscow and Bulgaria. [[Comments from the PD Group]] That is the culture that still draws you deep. You've taken Renzi, you've taken the rover, but your culture is always the communist culture, the culture of the clear vow opposed to that of the secret vow. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] We are instead to reaffirm the values of democracy and against your sophism we say: President, meet with the Board for Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u324	I call on the rapporteurs to comment on Amendment 1.28 (text 2), which has been turned into an agenda. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Senator Endrizzi needs to speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Finocchiaro, do you have an opinion on the agenda? FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, we would like to read it before we give an opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, is the agenda identical to Amendment 1.28 (text 2) or are there any changes? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr. President, I'm preparing it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As soon as we have the text, we will ask for the opinions of the rapporteurs. We're gonna put him down for now. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.32. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u327	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I would like to welcome, and indeed confirm, the words of Senator Sacconi, who pointed out that three and a half hours were spent on an amendment. We have therefore broken the record of the other day, denounced by President Zanda, which is three amendments in three hours. To what do we owe this further lowering of times? To stubborn obstinacy of the chain of command: Berlusconi, Renzi [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , Boschi, Zanda, and I stand here out of respect for you, President. I would like to add that Minister Boschi here...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u328	You asked to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u329	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'll get there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you're referring to the order of business, otherwise I have to take the floor. ENDRIZZI (M5S). You gave up your vacation, but here we are talking about Christmas holidays. We then spoke of the obstruction of the majority and the choirs were taken up on that side. What are we facing today? The fear of a majority making this House vote conscientiously, which is paralyzing the House itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this point, or we unlock... But here, remembering the chain of command, either President Renzi is thawed or we can go to New Year's, with lentils! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u330	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on amendment 1.32, on which the secret vote has been requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u333	Cotti (M5S). President, I asked to speak first! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi has already spoken for his group. Please, Senator Ghedini. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we insist that the formulation of this amendment, like those of the previous ones, starting from the entirely replacement of Chapter I of the reform - i.e. 20 articles - is clearly aimed at zeroing all the first twenty articles of the reform. For this reason, I would ask you to put this amendment to the vote separately. The first part goes from the words "Replace Chapter I " until the end of the heading, i.e. until the words: " Changes to Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution ". Next, the next part should be voted, starting with the words "1." In Article 56 of the Constitution it ends with the words "language minorities" (and I imagine that there will be a secret vote on this part); then the next three paragraphs will be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u334	A request for a split vote was therefore made. (Senator Cotti asks to intervene.) You vote for a show of hands. Cotti (M5S). Mr President, do you not give me the floor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no discussion of the request for a split vote, Senator Cotti. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Ghedini Rita. It's approved. MARTON (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. CRIMI (M5S). Not even the opinion of the presenter, Mr President, not a single word! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.32, to the words: "56" and "57" of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). Isn't that to be replaced? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Replacing Chapter I with the following amendment 1.32 on page 15 of the dossier. The first part shall be voted until the word "Constitution" is used. CRIMI (M5S). But what are we voting for, Mr President, can you read it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To be clear, Senator Ghedini, would you please repeat the illustration of your request? I understand, but obviously it is not clear where the second part begins by extrapolating the secret vote. If you want to be more clear...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u335	President. - I have made that clear and I repeat it. The first part is as follows: "Replace Chapter I with the following: "Chapter I - Reduction in the number of Members of Parliament." - Art. 1. - (Amendments to Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution) VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. What for? [[Lives protests from the M5S Group. Choir from the M5S Group: "You can't! You can't!]] CRIMI (M5S). We must vote on this proposal! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The vote was taken. We should now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.32. SANTANGELO (M5S). President, let us vote on adverbs, conjunctions and prepositions!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u336	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.32, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. Does anyone support the secret vote? SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to let me speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If there is no support, let us proceed with a clear vote. AIROLA (M5S). He's got to get us to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So is there support for the secret vote? (The request is supported). AIROLA (M5S). President, what are you doing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'language minorities'. That is the request for a split vote which has been adopted. (The vote was followed) Mr Martelli (M5S). But it's not like that. SANTANGELO (M5S). You gotta make me talk, shame on you! Mr Paglini (M5S). We have asked for the floor, Mr President. AIROLA (M5S). Shame! You have to let him talk. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Amendments 1,33 and 1,34 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.35. GAETTI (M5S). President! SANTANGELO (M5S). President! (Senator Santangelo goes under the presidency with the Rules of Procedure in his hand.) I would ask you to speak in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. We are voting on Amendment 1.35: we are dealing with this, so talk about this. Senator Santangelo, go back to your place, or you'll have to get out of here. Don't take the government's place. AIROLA (M5S). President, you must be tough on others. Doesn't PD do it hard?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u338	You have the floor, if your colleagues in the Group make you speak, because if they continue to do so you will hear nothing of your words.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u339	AIROLA (M5S). Stop it! SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in not accepting your attitude at all and as you are trampling on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, pursuant to Rule 92. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi]] I've lost my voice to ask for the floor. You have to give the floor to any senator. Mr President, follow me, because a review of the Rules of Procedure is good. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] Paragraph 1 of Article 92 reads as follows: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. That is not true of me or of you, Mr President. (Senator Santangelo firmly beats his hand on the bench.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Bottici, since you are a member of the Group, I would ask you, together with the Parent Company, whether you can invite us not to overly alter the tones. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, on the subject of my speech... You see he's losing his voice. Please lower his tone. SANTANGELO (M5S). She'll lose her voice too, don't worry: it's still long. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As long as you assist me I can perform this function. SANTANGELO (M5S). I too, don't worry, I'm much younger than you; I'll see you on August 8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Lucky you're younger, what can I say? A little respect for the elderly. SANTANGELO (M5S). Certainly not for you, Mr. President. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u340	I'm talking about the elders in general.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u341	SANTANGELO (M5S). Rule 102, paragraph 5, and I ask that it be put to the minutes, specifically provides that the separate parties should be voted upon after the President has given his opinion. You did not give the opinion; you had three or four amendments voted without any logical meaning. This is not allowed to you or anyone. I would ask you, Mr President, to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Senate as long as there is. You, who are the President, should know that! So, Mr President, on every amendment you have to say whether it can be voted on or not, and then move on to the vote by show of hands. That is what the Rules of Procedure lay down. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] MARTELLI (M5S). I would like to speak on a point of order. Cotti (M5S). Mr President, Mr President!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u342	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u343	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u344	[[Senator Cotti stands in his chair and is helped to get down by Senator Commissioner De Poli]] Senator Tocci, I'm sorry. As you can hear, the Assembly is not deaf. Please, Senator Tocci. TOCCI (PD). Mr President, we have been talking about the Rules of Procedure for almost three hours now. If possible, I would like to return to the substance, to the content of the proposal for a constitutional revision and I would like to stress that the amendment on the reduction of the number of Members is very reasonable and aims to ensure a better balance in the election of the President of the Republic. This is a very sensitive issue which has not yet been resolved, as almost all of us have recognised in the debate in this House. With this text, the Chamber of Deputies becomes six times larger than the Senate, while until today it was twice larger. This imbalance allows those who win the elections to take possession of the highest positions of the state and fundamental legislation, because it amplifies the effect of the majority prize. The majority prize has a good component and a bad one: when it is applied within the Chamber of Deputies, it is a sacrosanct instrument to give the Government the opportunity to implement the electoral mandate; if, on the other hand, the prize is used in the bicameral report to create an unsurpassed numerical primacy of a branch of Parliament risks weakening the Republican guarantees. The reduction in the number of Members is therefore the only solution for a balanced use of the majority prize and for ensuring the independence of the President of the Republic. This amendment should be adopted - I would also say with some enthusiasm - by those who motivated the constitutional revision precisely with the need to save money on allowances. On the other hand, there is an incomprehensible denial, which is not supported by strict explanations. I hear that the House's representation would be reduced, but it is not true because the number of Members in relation to the population is higher than the European average. Moreover, with the Mattarellum, for example, there were 475 colleges that ensured a good representativeness of the territories, as I believe is experience of many colleagues. Finally, we have all traveled around Italy over the last ten years to support the proposal to reduce the number of Members, and twice we have moved from words to deeds, bringing it to approval in Parliament and, of course, in the House itself. In 2005 it was on the initiative of the center-right, with the constitutional revision then rejected by the popular referendum. This will be remembered by my colleagues Sacconi, Casini and Romans who were protagonists of that season, but here they have not explained the reason for the rethinking on the point of the reduction of the number. In 2007 the reduction was approved on the initiative of the center-left with the approval of the so-called Violante praise, which the rapporteur, Finocchiaro, in her passionate speech, wanted to remember as the origin of today's decision. It is true, Senator Finocchiaro, that the Boschi proposal takes up much of the so-called Violant praise, except for the reduction in the number of Members. But how can we then return to the territory and say that we have rethought? It would be an incomprehensible paradox for public opinion and would thus risk accentuating mistrust of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I therefore propose that all senators, regardless of their political affiliation, vote on this or other amendments to reduce the number of Members, in the name of institutional balance and our political coherence. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u346	You see your turn's coming, too? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u347	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I had asked for the floor earlier, but you denied it to me by saying that a member of my group had already spoken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right, Senator Cotti. Cotti (M5S). I would therefore like it to appear on the record that I would have liked to ask, like Senator Ghedini, even though I had raised my hand... [[Brusio.]] If you listen to me, I'll continue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u348	I'm getting requests from Senators Secretary for further intervention. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u349	Cotti (M5S). As the Secretarian Senators had also seen, I had raised my hand to intervene before Senator Ghedini on Amendment 1.32, because I wanted to ask for a separate vote, but to divide it in a different way. You didn't allow me to do that, clearly distorting the progress of the votes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry. Cotti (M5S). This has precluded my parliamentary prerogatives, therefore, unless you want to cancel Senator Ghedini's request to give way to my own, which was different, I believe that you have committed a serious violation of the procedure. If you do not follow up on my request to cancel that division of the amendment, allowing me to put forward a different one, I will leave the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u350	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u351	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u352	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. An irregular vote has been taken, in the sense that Senator Ghedini has said, textual words, in the introductory phrase "Replace Chapter I" with the following: "Chapter I - Reduction in the number of parliamentarians. - Art. 1. - (Amendments to Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution) These are the textual words, but you, Mr President, did not put this to the vote, but rather: ==References====External links== Finally, the following words are added to the first paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution: "respecting gender balance and ensuring the representation of linguistic minorities." So you put something different to what Senator Ghedini asked you to vote for. The question I put to you, including the request for the annulment of the vote, is as follows: when we have the shorthand report and have made this official, how do we want to put it? The request for a vote was different from what you put to the vote. [[Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u353	Let it be clear that we voted first on the part of the secret voting request and then on all the remaining parts, so there is no reason...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u354	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MARTELLI (M5S). We're waiting for the shorthand! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And then he just anticipated what was the part for the non-secret vote: this was interpreted by the Presidency and so it was voted. MARTON (M5S). You have to stop inventing articles!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u355	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u356	Let us therefore enter into the substance of the matter. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u357	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote because we want to be on the substance, as we have always said. The theme is another, that is that others do not want to be on the merits, but prefer the clash, subjecting this House to the mortification of unnecessary discussion and demonstrating muscle strength. Otherwise, Amendment 1.35 - and the previous speaker in his speech - ensures a positive response to the guidelines before the Commission and now to the Senate on the substance. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] What's the merit? Firstly, how we make our legislative system work: it has been said that in order to make it so, perhaps we need to lose weight. And we propose that it be reduced by reducing the number of Members. I do not know what judgment can be given of the House's current activity. I think I should give an example, Mr President, because you should return dear. Do you remember the flood of November 2013, the one that killed almost twenty people in that already affected territory of Sardinia? Do you remember the effort we have made to approve in the deliberations of the Budget Committee some devoid of support for those populations? The House of Deputies, which has more than 600 members, must examine a very simple measure: it has been in the Budget Committee for months and months and in the meantime the Government has issued measures in favour of other territories, which have been affected much less than in Sardinia. But it is clear why the House of Deputies does not work: there are too many Members of the House of Deputies and they spend their time talking to each other in a way - as it were - willing but unproductive. Then we say that we lose weight and it is not about the costs of politics. We do not think that the waste of this country is the four allowances of parliamentarians. We think that the waste of this country is - for example - having paid a gentleman who directed the Ministry of Health and spread vaccines for the blue language that poisoned the flocks of Sardinia. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). What does that have to do with anything? URAS (Misto-SEL). We think it's the unqualified way in which this government, together with the previous government, made its choice as executives. I say this because it is right to intervene in the legislative process. We must lose weight, make the representatives of our people more attentive, more efficient and more effective and we must also do so by rejuvenating - on this we will agree, the Minister - if we allow ourselves to arrive in Parliament, through the amendment of Article 56, people of younger age than the one now allowed. I say this, Mr President, because we have the feeling that, in the articles of the Government's proposal, which the Commission then adopted, but which very much retains the direction of the Commission, there are very worrying elements aimed at promoting poor functioning, indeed the inability to operate the legislative body for the benefit of the Commission. In other words, we think that even in the proposal that came out of the Commission there are elements that do not allow the legislative body tomorrow, even if it was reformed according to the proposed text, to respond positively to the needs of the country. And this doubt comes to us in a condition where this country has been devastated by the legislative action of the Government, not of Parliament. Those who tell what happens here should go to recover all the measures made in recent years: measures concerning the economy, work, the organization and functioning of the institutional system, public education, the protection and enhancement of the landscape and cultural heritage. Almost all of those measures are government decrees. It is the inability of the conservative governments of this country that has ruined our Italy, not the action of Parliament. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Good boy. URAS (Misto-SEL). In recent years Parliament has been the victim of nomination procedures, blocked lists, the choice of a political class of representatives of the people to replace the people. A Parliament always bent, always quite subordinate to the government's guidelines and that is what we are doing the battle for. I say this to so many PD colleagues: you will see this, because all the precedents you are building in these hours are precedents that others far more equipped than you will charge. Do not think - I say this also to the ministers protempore - that you can govern this country for the next thirty years. The construction that you are putting into practice more on behavior than on the letter of standards is a construction that endangers your own ideals. We do a very simple operation, Mr President: we try to resist for you too, for you who do not want to resist. [[Applause from Senator Puglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u358	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u359	URAS (Misto-SEL). I shall conclude, Mr President. And that is why the coming hours, so many, so many, are waiting for us, will see this call systematically addressed to your political sensitivity and your democratic culture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u360	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u361	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u362	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not know my group's voting direction on this amendment. As a result, I do not know if my statement will be a dissenting one. However, I would like to ask Mr Boschi if he knows why the Members of Parliament were set in 630 and the senators in 315. I believe we do not know; reading the proceedings of the Constituent's work we find the reasons for that choice. The Senate, for which the number of members was fixed in 315, was more numerically rich of 315 members because it had absorbed the parliamentarians who had drawn up the Constitution, the constituents, and then all the Senators of the Kingdom. Then, to such a thick Senate, he thought he would oppose the other House with a number of 630 MPs. We are faced with an amendment which, in view of the substantial and considerable reduction in the number of senators, opposes, in a constitutional balance, a reduction in the number of Members as well, and from this point of view I believe that there is a logical justification that accompanies the amendment. On the other hand, I can also convince myself not to vote in favour of the amendment, but I would like to understand whether the government's lack of favourable opinion on this amending proposal is supported by adequate and reasonable justification. It seems to me that, among other things, this amendment, with the intention of reducing the number of Members, also goes in the direction of reducing public expenditure. So I have not yet decided whether or not I will vote in favour of this amendment, not because I want to remain in doubt, but because I have not understood and have not heard from the Government and the rapporteurs a logical and reasonable reason for the contrary opinion expressed on the proposal for which, the reduction in the number of senators, also corresponds to that of the number of Members. [[Senator Palma's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u363	Senator Falanga, it would be desirable, however, after your statement in explanation of vote, to know how you will be speaking on this amendment, whether in favour or against or if, on the contrary, you will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u364	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm waiting for the government's motivation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government has already expressed its opposition. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr President, but I have asked Mr Boschi to know what is the reason why the Government is opposed to reducing the number of Members. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u365	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u367	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the order of business? We are in an explanation of vote, Senator, and I have already said that only the first part of the amendment is voted, until the words: 'composed by'. PUGLIA (M5S). I'd like to understand one thing, even for the continuation. When unpacking is requested, of course, each text to be put to the vote must contain more than one provision or must refer to more than one subject or object, or must still be capable of being distinguished in several parts each having its own logical meaning. I have read the text several times, but I cannot understand the logical meaning of a split like what is proposed here. What is the meaning of the name of an article alone, if Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution are referred to in it and then together there are neither Article 56 nor Article 57? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. In any case, no separate vote was requested on Amendment 1.35: I only said that the first part was voted, until the words: "composed by "composed by "."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u368	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u370	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, on this amendment the League Group can only agree, because among the few things that have been asked of this Government there was precisely the containment of expenditure, the reduction of the number of senators and the exit from the perfect bicameralism, at the same time reducing the number of Members. This amendment takes exactly what we want. What we are struggling to understand is the insolence, whether conscious or not, of so many Members of Parliament who read exclusively the few lines before them and do not understand the overall picture in which the reform we are discussing is included. If a Member, a Senator, a Member asks himself a few questions, it would logically have to come to logical consequences. A Member wonders whether it is possible, in a House where a Rules of Procedure provides for such linear things, written in an intelligible Italian (subject, verb, supplement subject: very clear), that games of the Chamber can give a different reading. And let's stop here. A Member notes that in this context some free thinkers in a parliamentary committee dare to deviate from the majority opinion (clearly the opinion that supports the government) and are immediately raised, moved and replaced. But let's not get lost. A Member wonders: it is true that citizens are no longer called to elect the Senate (which could also be good), but they will not even be called to elect the House, because they will no longer be asked to speak, they will only have to speak on a blocked list, which someone else will expect. A Member wonders: do the citizens in this country still have the opportunity to participate? It does not seem so, because the Government's text raises to such an extent the number of signatures needed for the popular initiative and referendum to make them substantially unenforceable. Finally, a Member who wants to close the circle wonders whether the next reform will be in a presidential sense. All this means that someone here takes the sack for the top: he will make the lists, he will choose his own Parliament, he will have the numbers to choose the next President of the Republic, he will appoint, with the majorities of fidelity that has been created, no longer popular expression, but expression of his own lists, the supervisory bodies and the courts. Let us close this circle and ask ourselves: but why does this gentleman not have the courage to come to this House to say that the economic and working situation of the country is such that it requires a concentration of powers and that this is justifiable? Why don't you show up and look us in the face and say, "I want the full powers until we get out of this crisis?" The trouble is that these full powers are asked in a subtle, truffle, broken way, making us vote one piece at a time, with distorted logics. But is it possible that this Parliament does not see the overall picture, the path, the risk that we are going to run in putting all concentrated power into one's hands? President of the Assembly, in these classrooms the last person to ask for full powers was Benito Mussolini. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We know the history of this country. In comparison with Matteo Renzi, Benito Mussolini was a giant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u371	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u372	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u373	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, we can only vote in favour of this first part of amendment 1,35, although we should ask ourselves, after we have voted in favour, once this has become part of a state law, what practical effects it would have. We have arrived, for political alchemies and for the things I have said before and that I do not repeat, to choose a formula that is an anacolute, that is syntactically perfect but that says absolutely nothing. And it occurred to me to the Marshal of La Palice, of whom it was said that an hour before his death was still alive. At a time when, indiscriminately and generically, we say that we want to reduce the number of Members, we should ask ourselves what Senator Falanga said before: why do we reduce it? And to what extent? And why don't we reduce the parliamentary representation to the Chamber of Deputies as well? An old adage said cuius regio eius religio, that is to say the king brings his religion and his law where he reigns. It seems that our Prime Minister has understood that the Senate is a useless harp and has not explained to us why he has not closed the Chamber of Deputies which has twice the number of parliamentarians. Apart from that, I would like to ask my colleagues in the PD, in whose ranks I have many friends and I appreciate many people: have you done the calculation that you all went home? I know you have a battle of militancy, of idealism. Senator Zanda is certainly a snake enchanter: how can a man of his culture not convince you that you are self-harmful? In fact, if you pass this Senate reform and it remains the Italicum you will take a number of Members who are smaller than what you already have in the House of Deputies. Therefore, this vagueness, the fact that we must vote on an amendment that remains indistinguishable and inexplicable, because it does not tell us from a lexical and practical point of view what it means, where it means that things do not change and you are defending this thing strenuously, you are making a note to leave. It will be difficult to tell a Member who has been loyal and loyal to the party lines that he must stand up to sit one of you. Since self-harm and Stockholm syndrome are now scientifically accepted by both psychology and psychiatry, in conscience and friendship I had a duty to tell you: you are going home. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u374	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u375	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u376	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Moronese will speak in explanations of vote, and I will take the floor for clarification before continuing. I am referring to what you have said, namely that we vote on the amendment until the words 'composed by'. I believe that those who, in thirty or forty years' time, will read the synographical reports of this constituent Assembly (it is a big word), as we have done, will laugh. You said earlier that we are voting for the first part of amendment 1.35, which states that: In Article 56 of the Constitution, the following paragraph is replaced by the following: "The Chamber of Deputies shall consist Mr President, I would like to confirm that. Are we voting for this? I ask him and I ask him to be put to the record because we really will have to be laughing and being the subject of comics or jokes for the next 40 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u377	All right, Senator Crimes. Let us finish the explanations of vote and then let me explain it to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u378	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u379	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u380	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I rise to answer Senator Falanga. All colleagues will know this, but I remember that in 1948 the constituent Fathers supported the principle of representation and wrote one very precise thing: one congressman for every 80,000 inhabitants. At the time there were 500, then, with Constitutional Law No. 2 of February 9, 1963 the Constitution was changed and the number of deputies was increased to 630 to adapt them to the population and also to put a roof, otherwise a further increase of the population would have resulted in a House with 1,000 elected. In fact, the amendment before us does not link the proposal of a Chamber with 300-320 Members to anything, whereas objectively the principle of representation then established (one Member per 80,000 inhabitants) made sense and also made sense the proportionate relationship between the House and the Senate. Today that the House of Deputies remains 630 members, overlapping with the principle of minimum representation of the constituents, and the Senate is reduced to 100 the ratio of this difference is not explained and the amendments tabled in this matter in turn lead to an imbalance that is not explained. Perhaps, if a greater balance had been found, we would have been more in tune with the spirit of the constituents and - let us not forget - we would not have abandoned what is the fundamental principle of the senators and Members, however elected, that of being representatives of a part of the population or part of the territory, I believe, by direct and universal suffrage and not mediated. With these amendments we completely lose the sense of a direct relationship between Members and Senators and popular representation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u381	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u382	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u383	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I shall try to make this explanation of vote despite the continuing doubts expressed by Mr Crimes, since his request for an explanation has not been answered. Having to give an explanation of vote on the whole of the amendment, I still try. This is an amendment that I have signed, tabled by my colleague, Mrs De Petris, on which I am voting in favour, because the text of the constitutional reform presented by the Government and subsequently amended by the Commission has left unchanged the number of eligible Members of the House who, I recall, are six hundred and thirty for the Italian constituency and twelve for the foreign constituency. The increase of the Chamber members was post-World War II and was justified by the fact that the population was increased and therefore there was a need to widen the audience of representatives. According to this reasoning, which is mathematically acceptable, we could even move, by increasing the number of members of the House, to 750 or even 800 Members. In this sense the government's reform plan does not foresee any reduction, even if it has always shouted out, to unified networks, the need to reduce costs, which the government would like to implement exclusively by reducing the number of senators by as many as two hundred and fifteen. In order not to empty the Senate of the Republic of its prerogatives, this amendment proposes a more balanced reduction of costs, to be carried out by means of a corresponding reduction in the number of Members and senators. In particular, paragraph 5 brings the number of senators to one hundred and fifty for the Italian circuit and three for the foreign circuit, while paragraph 4 divides the number of inhabitants by 294 compared to the 618 for the Italian circuit. It is a reduction that would produce for the coffers of the State a considerable saving on the costs of politics and more balanced, a saving due as well as to the decrease in the number of parliamentarians of Chamber and Senate also to the reduction of the expenditure relative to everything that revolves around the work of the two Chambers. Already in the discussion of another amendment I referred to an IPSOS survey of 15 and 16 July this year, from which it was first found that one in five Italians did not agree with this reform and, at the same time, a consensus was reached among citizens on cutting the costs of politics. Then, if your intention is really to do what the Italians ask, we should still ask them what they actually think is most appropriate. Having said that, let us remember that the costs of the House are truly exorbitant. It is precisely during these days that these issues have been discussed in the House. I want to mention some numbers: annually, amounts to about 238 million euros the cost of the salaries of the staff of the House. There are even one hundred officials who take a salary above EUR 100,000 per year, broken down by fifteen months. In a country like ours, where youth unemployment has now reached 43%, I think it is absurd that there are excessive wages and that there should not be a reduction in the salaries of the parliamentarians themselves, who should take an example of what Members and Senators of the 5 Star Movement do, who have reduced their salaries by 50% since the first day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , without needing any written norms, because it was simply a choice dictated by the common sense and necessity that our country is facing at this time. It is because of a question of fairness to citizens who, on the other hand, cannot reach the end of the month and put the dish on their table. I remember there are exorbitant expenses for office management. The House spends 102,000 euros for wardrobe services; 100,000 euros for bindings; over 1.8 million euros for removals and porters; even 670,000 euros for the linguistic and computer training of Members, whom they may be able to provide at their own expense. Not to mention the various challenges that President Boldrini also takes, but I do not want to go back to. In a few minutes we have said how we could do this in order to reduce the cost of politics in a practical way, in an honest and balanced way. But no, you want to put your hand only and exclusively at the Senate to exonerate him of all his functions and prerogatives, concentrating in the House, therefore in the hands of the majority, all legislative, executive and control powers. Just to give a thought to the reduction of representatives in the Senate, I would like to point out that such an excessive reduction would inevitably compromise its efficiency. With regard to paragraph 3 of the amendment, we call for a reduction in the age to be elected to the House from 25 to 21 years, and the reasons may be varied. Of course, the spread of the mass media such as the Internet, the possibility of access to infinite data and information and the possibility of increasing their knowledge have led to a radical fall in the age of awareness. However, the main intention of this amendment is to promote the participation of young people in the political life of the country, thus guaranteeing a greater representativeness of the younger generations. In addition, I personally do not understand why a 21-year-old can safely be elected President of a Region and does not qualify to be elected Member of the National Parliament. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u384	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u385	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u386	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak about the vote we are about to take to avoid misunderstandings later on. I believe that you are applying the so-called kangaroo rule, and I would like to point out to you in advance that the headings of subsequent amendments 1.36, 1.37 and 1.38 are different. So in order to prevent the kangaroo from becoming a shark, let us immediately clarify what will then be foreclosed and what will not be, because the heading of the subsequent amendments is different.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u387	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u388	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u389	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I should like to make one point clear. Senator Ghedini made a request for unpacking for some articles. Mine is a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're talking about things that have already happened, Senator Marton. MARTON (M5S). I want to understand something, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Counselling is not allowed, however, take action as well. MARTON (M5S). It's not advice, it's to see if I can intervene, so help me not to mess up. At a time when the senator and I as senator did not accept that split but wanted to propose another on the same article, the Rules of Procedure, in Article 102, paragraph 5, does not say if I can propose another type of split, if the sentence is okay as it is interrupted or if I can propose an interruption at a different point. I would therefore ask you to give me the opportunity to propose different openings, because we have done them without any sense; perhaps by doing them with a little sense you could vote for something smarter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u390	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u391	I'll take note of that and give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u392	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I shall be voting against the vote because I do not know what to vote on it. You are proposing that we vote on the new Article 56 of the Constitution, which will be as follows: The Chamber of Deputies shall be elected by universal and direct suffrage. The Chamber of Deputies is composed of. All voters who were twenty-five years of age on election day are eligible for Members of Parliament. Frankly, this rule doesn't make sense, so I can't express any kind of vote on something that doesn't make sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u393	As has been well said, this is the so-called kangaroo rule, otherwise called a tagliola, even if "kangaroo" is something different from "cuttles" as I have desperately tried to make understand, without succeeding since it continues to be indicated by this term. Since there are some common parts, we are speaking and the President is voting on the first part, so it is absolutely not a matter of split votes, but it is a rule that has been applied in the past and decided by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure at its sitting on Wednesday 17 July 1996 under the chairmanship of President Mancino. It dates back to that date; therefore there is a long-standing practice. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] I read the Report of that session: "The President of Mancino" - who at the time was President of the Senate - calls the attention of the Junta on the need to adopt the appropriate procedures to ensure the examination and the vote of the draft law of conversion of decrees-laws, in compliance with the forecast of the schedule of works. It therefore announces its intention to make use for this purpose of the faculties provided for by the Rules of Procedure, with particular regard to the provisions of Articles 100, paragraph 8, and 102, paragraph 4, in which the last is the foundation of the so-called kangaroo rule, in analogy to the provisions of Article 85 of the Rules of the Chamber of Deputies. The senators have therefore taken note of this and this practice has since been followed. On the amendment in particular, since it has been asked, since there are a whole range of numbers and decreasing figures, the vote has an impact on one part, on which I would like to draw your attention: Replacing Chapter I with the following sub-heading means replacing all the reform from Article 1 to 20. That's because you appreciate this line. Then the proposed Chapter I is titled'reduction in the number of Members of Parliament', so it is clear what you are talking about and in any case specifies: Amendments to Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution concerning the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament. Then there is the phrase: In Article 56 of the Constitution, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: "The Chamber of Deputies shall consist of". That is what is being voted on. All other figures, as they are decreasing, will be precluded if, of course, the first part is rejected. The following amendments would be precluded, since Senator Candiani wanted to know, until Amendment No 1.87. If the vote is in favour, those figures will be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u394	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u395	I think I've been thorough. You still have the right to speak, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u396	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I think I fully understand what you have said, Mr President, but I ask you and the whole House the following question. Even if I wanted to accept the reasoning and the reference to the precedent so old, I would ask you, if we voted in favour of this wording, that is, up to the words "composed by "" and then let the numerical value be voted on later, what would happen if hypothetically - it could happen - none of the numerical determinations reached the favorable vote of the Assembly. I want to say that the criterion of logical autonomy and regulation provided for in paragraph 5 of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that it must inevitably be applied also in this case. We can gamble as much as we want, but I repeat the simple question: quid iuris (to remain within) if any numerical determination of the members of the House were to reach the favorable vote of the Assembly? We would have a rule voted on that would stop at "composed" by "composed by "composed by "composed by "composed by "composed by "composed by "composed by "composed by PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe I wasn't clear. In the case of approval we would vote on the numbers, so the figures. BUCCARELLA (M5S). If no number is voted by a majority, it remains composed of the President: by what?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u397	Sorry, maybe we don't understand each other. There is already an article indicating in 630 the number of Members, so if there is no different number that is approved by the House it will remain 630. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] I think it's obvious. I think I've made myself quite clear. That is the vote and I think it is very clear that this vote indicates the replacement of Chapter I. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "composed of "composed" by Mr De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.35 and amendments 1,36 to 1,87 are therefore excluded. [[Ironic applause from Senator Crimes.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 1.88, in which universal and direct suffrage returns. Replace Articles 1 to 20 by the following: 1. - (Amendments to Articles 55, 56 and 57 of the Constitution). - One. The following shall be inserted after the first paragraph of Article 55 of the Constitution: "Members of Parliament shall be elected by universal and direct suffrage. '........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u398	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u399	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u400	MARTON (M5S). My question also comes back to this point, Mr President. Senator Ghedini is gonna ask for a break-up, and I'd like to do a different break-up. What are we gonna do about it, President? Can I have a reply, please?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u401	This isn't a breakup. I implement the so-called kangaroo rule. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.88, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "directed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Once the first part of amendment 1,88 has been rejected, as a result of the rejection of previous amendments 1,32 and 1,35, amendments 1,89 to 1,1443, on page 617 of the dossier are not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1444, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] GAETTI (M5S). We want to make an explanation of vote! CASINI (PI). We are already in the process of voting! [[Live comments from Senators Airola and Crimes]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). I'm asking to talk. GAETTI (M5S). I repeat that we want to make an explanation of vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you're all yelling at the same time, you can't understand anything. If you ask for the word, you will have the word; if you all shout at the same time, you will not have the word. That's the order. I repeat, if anyone asks for the floor, they will have it. CRIMI (M5S). You have skipped 1,400 amendments. You have to give us ten seconds to browse the 600 pages that blew us up! Mr President, allow me at least to see what we are doing before I can ask you to speak in an explanation of vote. President, that is not what you are doing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is an open vote. AIROLA (M5S). So, cancel it. CRIMI (M5S). Cancel it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since we are already in the vote, I have to close the vote. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Congratulations, Mr. President! Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1445. FERRARA Mario (GAL). (It goes down to the Presidency.) I asked for the floor and now you have to give it to me! That's enough! Look around and give the floor to those who ask. That's the third time that's happened. Don't let that happen again! [[Senators Questori De Poli and Bottici intervene to invite Senator Ferrara to return to his desk. Senator Fabbri's comments at Senator Bottici's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u402	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u403	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u404	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I do not know where we are and what we are doing. He blew us 600 pages. I repeat, 600 pages; you got the jump of 600 pages! We asked for the time to browse the 600 pages you blew us up. (Senator Russo gesticulates at the address of the Senators of the M5S Group). AIROLA (M5S). What does Senator Russo do? President, look at that individual. He's mocking us. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Shame on you, Russo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u405	I'm begging Senators Quaestors and Assistants to step in. (Senators quaestors descend into the hemicycle.) AIROLA (M5S). Do you insult this House? Shame on you, Russo, you're a clown! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to remind you of the order: that the reference to order should remain in the minutes. SANTANGELO (M5S). President, look at Senator Russo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave the floor to Senator Crimes, who is your colleague: let him speak. AIROLA (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, won't you let him speak? AIROLA (M5S). I won't let him talk until Russo stops mocking us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, shut up, as they say. [[Lively protests from Senator Santangelo.]] Please, Senator Crimes, continue. (Senator Candiani shows off a shoe, then shows up to resume the session with a mobile device). CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, if you turn off your microphone, perhaps I can also speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Look, my microphone doesn't cover yours, so you can talk. [[Senator Taverna's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u406	I'm telling you clearly that when you attack the microphone, you unplug the video and cover the speaker's audio. All you hear from the outside is your voice, while you hear nothing about what's going on in here: I wanted to make it clear, Mr President. AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. [[Senator Volpi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u407	Senator Volpi, you'll have the floor soon. SANTANGELO (M5S). (Ironic). You're very good, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, you may proceed. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you formally to turn off your microphone, and let me explain why. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you don't explain why, but do you have to tell me to turn off my microphone? CRIMI (M5S). Yes, if you'll let me talk... But look, I'm not the maneuverer, unless I need it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u408	You haven't let me speak yet and you haven't let me explain why, because I don't know if you know - maybe you do - but outside, when you have the microphone on, in the videos, in the press and in the live Internet, you can see and hear only you: you don't hear us, you don't hear what happens in this House. You, right now... [[Applause from the M5S Group. Warm protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] Outside, yes, outside of this House, they're just coming...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u409	But do you think I do it voluntarily? CRIMI (M5S). Now turn it off, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I absolutely don't have these visibility accesses. CRIMI (M5S). However, my speech was not about this, but know that it is, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, I know it is. If you shut me up, you automatically turn off my microphone... [[Ironic applause from Senator Marton.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). (Ironic). Bravo, you're great! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I keep talking, it activates. It is automatic: if you don't let me speak, you will be framed in your entire speech. CRIMI (M5S). First of all, we also ask you... AIROLA (M5S). [[Taking Senator Crime's microphone.]] This is the dictatorship of minorities! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. See? If I keep talking, the microphone stays on. We're being ridiculous, Mr. President, but that's okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is the audio system, I'm sorry, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u410	I'm the one who makes her talk, so... Anyway, Senator Russo mocked us while I was intervening - and I was doing it on the merits, not on anything else - by making the kangaroo gesture and making fun of us. That is right to clarify, because I think it is also an offense to you. This is about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u411	I'll take note of that. Okay. Anything else?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u412	[[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). You did not allow us to make explanations of vote on this amendment or even to look at what we were voting on, because - I repeat - you skipped 600 pages. Given the great debate, ten seconds could give us to get to the seventeenth page, then we could have jumped to the one thousand two hundredth. That is what we were asking you: to be able to make an explanation of vote and to cancel that vote. We do not even know which amendment we are voting on: I think we voted on 1.1443. Or 1.1444?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u413	We have reached Amendment No 1.1445: I am sorry that you cannot follow. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). What, I'm sorry? SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you, you have to be ashamed! You're the worst of the worst! AIROLA (M5S). This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u414	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u415	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u416	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I take the floor to ask for the separate vote on amendment 1,1445, as follows. The first part is as follows: Art. 2 (a) (b) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) The number of Members is four hundred thirty. The second part is as follows: 12 of which are elected to the foreign constituency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me. Let me follow you. [[Lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. Ironic applause from Senator Santangelo.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Wake up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since you ask me what we're voting for, I need to know. Senator Candiani, please be cooperative. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will take all the time it takes for you to understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The first vote was as follows: The number of Members is four hundred thirty. The second vote was: 12 of which were elected to the foreign constituency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Candiani, not to go into the substance of your requests, but the amendment begins with the following: CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We shall vote for it separately, Mr President, so every article, every paragraph, every part. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, so the number of Members is four hundred thirty is the first vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The second vote was: 12 of which were elected to the foreign constituency. All voters who have reached the age of twenty-five on election day are eligible for the vote. The division of seats between the districts is the fourth vote. Fifth vote: without prejudice to the number of seats allocated to the foreign constituency. The sixth vote is: "The number of the inhabitants of the Republic shall be divided by the number of the inhabitants of the Republic" (not mentioned) and the seventh: "which is the result of the last general census of the population" (the eighth vote shall be: "for four hundred and eighteen and the seats shall be distributed in proportion to the population of each constituency"; the ninth vote shall be: "on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remnants" (the tenth vote shall be: "No Region may have a number of deputies less than three" (the sixth vote shall be: "No Region may have fewer than three seats). Eleventh vote: 11/3. Articles 57 and 58 of the Constitution are hereby repealed. Twelfth vote: 12.4. (a) in the first paragraph, the words: "Senator of law' is replaced by the following: "He shall be a Member of the Court of Justice"; New vote: (b) in the second paragraph, the words: 'life senators' shall be replaced by the following: 'life-deputed'. Re-voting:.................................................................................................................................................... Article 60 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 60. The Chamber of Deputies is elected for five years. The duration of the Chamber cannot be extended unless by law and only in the event of war. Re-voting: 6 p.m. Article 61 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 61. - The election of the Chamber takes place within seventy days of the end of the previous one. As regards the next vote, I would point out that there is a misunderstanding in the press, Mr President, and a proposal for coordination should be made. [[Laughter]] In any case, new vote: The first meeting shall take place no later than the 20th day of the elections. New vote: Until the new Chamber is convened, the powers of the previous Chamber shall be extended. New vote: ==References====External links== Article 62 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 62. - The Chamber meets in law on the first day of February and October. The Chamber may be convened on an extraordinary basis on the initiative of its President or the President of the Republic. New vote: 8 - 8. Article 63 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 63. - The Chamber elects the President and the Bureau from among its members." Re-voting: 9.00 p.m. Article 64 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 64. - The House adopts its own rules by an absolute majority of its members. New vote: The deliberations of the Chamber shall not be valid unless a majority of its members is present and if they are not adopted by a majority of its members; and a new vote: unless the Constitution prescribes a special majority. New vote: The members of the Government, even if they are not members of the Chamber, have the right to vote again; if required, they must attend the sessions of the Government; they must be heard whenever they so request." Re-voting: 10 October. Article 65 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 65. - The law determines the cases of ineligibility and incompatibility with the office of deputy." New vote: 11/11. In Article 66 of the Constitution, the words: "Each House" are replaced by the following: "The House" Re-voting time: 12.00 p.m. In the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, the words "to which it belongs' are deleted. Re-voting: 13 January. The heading in Section I of the Title I of the second part of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "The House" The rest I think is sufficiently clear. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u417	In accordance with the procedure we have followed for Senator Ghedini's request, the proposal for a split vote must be submitted to the vote of the House and there is no debate. [[Comments by Senators Martelli and Airola. Senators De Petris, Marton and Volpi repeatedly ask to intervene]] . MARTON (M5S). Yes, ma'am, but I'm asking you something different. How can you put something different to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is no debate under the Rules of Procedure. The request for a split vote must be submitted first to the vote of the Assembly. MARTON (M5S). I'm asking you something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no debate under the Rules of Procedure. He will then speak on the subject. MARTON (M5S). In fact, it isn't. In the meantime, we are voting on the request made by Senator Candiani for a split vote. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Fascist. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I asked to speak! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no discussion on the proposal. We are voting on the request made by Senator Candiani to vote separately on Amendment 1.1445. RUTA (PD). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta is the one who signed this amendment. [[Comments]] Let's get Senator Ruta to talk first. We know that no debate is allowed on the request for a split vote. [[Senator Ruta points out that he wants to postpone the surgery.]] He doesn't talk anymore? Later. Then let's vote. [[Senator Volpi goes to the chair next to the president and protests at his address]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have been asking for two hours to speak on the order of business. Either he makes me talk, or I get angry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can be angry, for Christ's sake. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Can't I be mad that you won't let me talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please reach your place, then you'll start a dialogue with me, please. Let's not go on as long as she's here. VOLPI (LN-Aut). President, you cannot continue to chair this way! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please reach your post, please. (Senator Volpi goes away.) I was saying: there is no debate on the request for a split vote. I repeat: first we vote, then we debate. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let me talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not open a debate on the request for a split vote! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Respect the Rules of Procedure, President! He's not a duke! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I respect the Rules of Procedure because there is no debate on the request for a split vote. So first we vote and then we start the debate. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on amendment 1,1445, tabled by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u418	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u419	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u420	[[Senator Palma's comments.]] Senator Palma, before you had asked Senator De Petris for the floor, then Senator Volpi. Then there's her. [[Repented comments by Senator Palma]] You asked Senator De Petris to speak first, as my voicemail confirms. I call Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I asked for the vote because, during the previous vote on amendment 1,44, I was standing next to you asking for explanations from the offices on all the amendments that would have been banned and I was not even given the opportunity to vote. That is to say, Mr President, that I have been asking for the floor a long time ago. Look, Mr President, I tell you very clearly that I have never seen in this Senate the application that you have made of the 'kangaroo', as you have done. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You know perfectly well that some of the amendments can be sunk, but what has happened today - and I am very sorry to say so - has gone beyond what the Rules of Procedure provide. You can go and see the precedents, Mr President, and you will realize, if you really want to be the guarantee of this House and of all the Members of this House, that the kangaroo instrument, as you have applied it, has no precedent! That of the'skangarooed' amendments is the question on which I came to ask for explanations, so as to have clarity and give everyone the opportunity to speak on this point. This has never happened, Mr President. I would just like to say this: tell us now, Mr President, what you intend to do. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You mean, on a constitutional review procedure... Let us take the precedents of the reform of Berlusconi and of the 2,700 amendments that were then and realize that the kangaroo instrument has never been applied in this way! You are preventing, during the discussion of the constitutional revision procedure, the Senate from expressing its views on certain substantive amendments! And I am very sorry about that, because - you know that, Mr President - you should be the guarantee here to protect compliance with the rules! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pin]] And this, when a constitutional revision procedure is under way, is the substance, not just the form, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u421	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u422	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u423	[[The president's asking for Senator Palma's microphone to be turned on.]] Please, Senator Palma. Because I could see her voice wasn't coming... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for your kindness. I and my colleagues in Forza Italia had and are in the mood to vote for this reform. We imagined that we had to do so, even in the harshness of the political confrontation (including obstructionism) and in the harshness of certain regulatory interpretations, in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Council]] This is mainly because it is a constitutional reform that cannot be carried forward, nor defined by a series of reckless and reckless interpretations of regulatory rules. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Rizzotti.]] So, in very clear terms (I speak personally), I confirm my will to vote on this reform, but I am no longer willing to stand up to further violations (at least to me this way) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, I tell you very quietly that I have seen things here that I do not understand. I do not understand the reason why, first, we vote on the request for a split vote and then, suddenly, we no longer vote on it. If I were to find a reason for the diversity of behavior, I would find it entirely in favour of the vote that characterized the first amendments, where there was an opposition, by the presenters and part of the House, to access to the split vote, and not even to the request made by Senator Candiani, who had not been opposed by any senator in this House. Here we must be clear now for the future, because the work that awaits us is a difficult job; it is a job that will often be carried out by tiredness, expected the rhythms imposed; and it is a job where we all need to keep calm without an excess of provocation. You, Mr President, regulate the work, but you are not the master of the work! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] You interpret the Rules of Procedure, but you are not the master of the Rules of Procedure! Therefore, Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I will be grateful if, in line with what you have already decided during this sitting, for the future, if you ever decide to entrust the House with the vote on split votes, you do so when there is conflict and not even when there is no conflict. Also have the courtesy to allow the senators to speak about the split vote, just as it allowed us to do at the beginning of this sitting. Finally, Mr President, there is an issue that is not insignificant, because the precedents in this House apply and apply to the future. When the Rules of Procedure entrust the President with the difficult task of making the decision, it obviously does so in recognition of the role that is proper to the President. But when the President does not have access to his role and even when there is no opposition, as there was no reference to Senator Candiani's request, he entrusts to the majority the destinies of the opposition's request, even when there is no need! And we really do not need the arrogance and dictatorship of the majority when considering such a complicated and delicate measure as the reform of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Stefani]] We all go forward with great serenity and in great serenity there is also a great balance and the ability to react to pressures, wherever they may come from. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u424	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u425	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u426	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will leave aside some details, such as the mimic performance of Senator Russo. Everyone, on the other hand, expresses himself as he knows how to do, what he wants. Mr President, I would also like to leave the fact that undersecretary Lotti takes his place and decides the Senate calendar. On the other hand, we've gotten used to the team orders. He declares that we will move on. I was convinced that you, together with the Conference of Leaders, decided to schedule the work, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u427	You have more information than I do, because I don't consult phones or iPads, as you have the opportunity to do. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So I don't have that information. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Ma'am, can you get a senator to talk without interrupting him for two minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u428	Undersecretary Lotti is an authoritative exponent of the Government, I take it at my word; since what the Government says has almost always been implemented, I think it can be taken into account by you and the Conference of Leaders. But I'd like to ask you a very serious question. Do you think you can go on pretending nothing and not giving the floor to my group leaders when they ask for it? Do you think you can continue not to allow colleagues to make explanations of vote? Do you not have the impression that this attitude is not encouraging even your colleagues in the majority? Don't you have the impression that this attitude is not exactly favouring the Senate's work? In fact, I think that one can be in the majority or in opposition and be respectful (apart from some joke that runs away also, during the long sessions). You have a responsibility for what's going on. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I say this with great serenity, because you pretend that colleagues do not ask for the floor for an explanation of vote or for speeches on the order of business. Furthermore, Mr President, I did not understand one thing. There was a long debate earlier on the granting of secret ballots by separate parties. Very authoritative voices of this Assembly (President Casini, President Romani, other speeches) told you that, before moving forward, we had to settle this aspect of the secret vote to the full and ask for the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. You made everyone talk, then you just hanged it (I don't get the most appropriate term) and you said: I go ahead, now we vote. I am sorry, but why should you, which is the third most important part of this House, exacerbate the current debate? [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] A request has been made to you: join, summon the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we know how things must go and it is over. I don't understand you, ma'am. We know each other well now, I tell you with great sincerity: I don't understand you. I don't understand why say no to everything. Can you have the interpretation or not? And then, don't pretend anything when President Ferrara or some other President raises his hand: I saw him reporting my speech on the order of business for half an hour. I do not think that one should be angry to be able to speak in this House, it is not even in my character. I don't know, think about his role and what he could do. Apart from the political role, which now seems no longer to be yours, because your mediation has been rejected by the Government, at least the role of management of the work I ask you to carry it out really serenely, looking at everyone, accepting the already difficult conditions of this House and perhaps taking into consideration the advice of some colleague who by chance has already been President of an Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u429	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u430	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u431	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I am sorry just now, partly because my intemperance is at odds with your attention, your personal courtesy and your ability to care for interpersonal relationships. What is happening may be removed from the apology, but it is an example of how the debate is dealing with the context of the House. You, Mr President, could have spoken and Mr Palma, on a point of order on Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, points out his prerogative of representation. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that you have already made use of your prerogative of representation, proposing to yourself only what you considered a duty in relation to the constitution in court. I only mention this to you, not because there was disagreement, but because I want to remind you that you have already interpreted this prerogative. I would urge you to reinterpret it, perhaps with a comparison that is not appropriate, but seen how the situation is evolving, tonight, at 8 p.m., you can have a reason to make us think about it: it has never been seen that the work of the Senate or of the Chamber of Deputies proceeded in this way, not even, President (as I read days ago), in the days before Palm Sunday of 1953, when here, with the then President Ruini, the law was approved scam. In fact, an organization of work that proceeds without interruption, with the exception of that hour and a half, from 9.30 a.m. until midnight, Saturday and Sunday included, is not an example of good parliamentary work, but has much more to do with the conduct of the work of a municipal council on the threshold of the possible dissolution for the approval of the budget than with the work of a branch of Parliament that has to approve the reform of the Constitution. You, Mr President, have a chance and it is to interpret a need of the House and not to follow the reasoning made since this morning that is a reasoning made between the deaf: I dialogue if you withdraw. But why do I have to withdraw if you don't talk? The reasoning that needs to be made is another. I would point out that we - and I am also addressing Professor Quagliariello who I see walking in the hemicycle - are not dealing with De Gaulle, because here there is Boschi and there is Lotti, but they do not seem to me either Debré or Maurois, because Debré and Maurois, President, when they intervened in the famous three days of the French Parliament, from 11 to 14 September 1958, they tried to explain the reason for that reform; here there is no one who wants to explain why, if the form of the Chancellor, President Chiti, must be introduced (and this has a precedent only in the United Kingdom and Germany), we must not talk about constitutionalization of the electoral system. This is something President Renzi makes clear, he tries to show that we have to talk about the electoral law, but he says not to accept blackmail, he blackmails in turn, saying: we only talk about it and only if we approve the reform! But what is the way to dialogue? What is the way to find a solution? What is the way to try to achieve something by forcing us to stay here until midnight, profiting from the skill and youth of so many colleagues, while we try to exercise what is a right? This right is obstructionism, to prevent the country from running into a drift that cannot and must not afford! That is what I say, Mr President, very strongly and convincingly, because I believe that such a situation is the only one that has the prerogatives and therefore the responsibility to deal with it. There is no way of resolving this, because otherwise you will find yourself in a position where, in order to have an amendment adopted, Mr President, you must use the kangaroo system. Briefly engraved: the so-called kangaroo rule we adopt on the basis of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which you referred to earlier by Senator Calderoli, replied that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate do not provide for such an article and therefore asked why, for the split vote, you should have listened to your speech. The truth, President - as President Palma said - is that the Rules of Procedure are difficult and controversial and are due to good management (and not manipulation) of its responsibility and prerogative. President, see what is to be done, because otherwise, after this show, we will give an even worse spectacle. As you rightly said at the Conference of the Leaders and in this House, reform cannot mathematically leave this House! And we know perfectly well, because it does not have to do with the 120 hours, it does not have to do with the 80 hours: it has to do with the number of amendments to be voted on and the possibility of intervention, albeit very limited, for the adoption of the individual amendment. We will have voted 50: 4,800 are missing 4,750. You know, Mr President, that there is no solution. I hope you wanted to lead us to this "despair" in order to make a decision about it, but if you, or other people of responsibility, but you first of all, do not make a decision about it, we will write for the Italian reality an even worse page than many that have been written. And the page I was reading the other day, that of Palm Sunday 1953, can be far more sacrilegiously surpassed by what may be needed in this House. In fact, Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure will not apply to anything, which you have just mentioned without implementing it. What we had at 6.30 p.m. was a troubling product, and with regard to the riot you only have one option: to suspend the work for the inestimability of the House. I repeat very clearly: it does not lead us to this necessity, to the application of Article 68. Let him use his responsibilities and, before that, his will, his conscience and his prerogative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Ferrara. But I think talking about turmoil is too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u432	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u433	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u434	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for two reasons. First of all, I would like to ask for an hour's suspension of the work of this House, because we want to verify, by amendment, that the kangaroo procedure has been properly applied by you. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] The second reason I am speaking is because I realized - at last completely - that lies are needed in politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am only aware that I attended very few Conferences of the Leaders, but above all for what has happened today, which was the apotheosis of the lie. From this morning's group leader to 2:45 p.m. it was a continuous lie that served the political system that wants to rule here, from tonight perhaps, not until August 8, but it is not known until when. It was the apotheosis of the lie ruled by that chain of command that cited Senator Endrizzi, in which the colleague allowed himself not to include it, but in which I now fully include it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this morning's group leader, the majority, and the government, took up a lie built up in the afternoon when, in the ballet of responsibilities, Minister Boschi said that Senator De Petris would have to contact her to tell her what amendments she intended to give up, while President De Petris said instead that Minister Boschi would have to contact her to ask her for an appointment. At that point I realized that everything we saw tonight was already in place, but I never, ever imagined that you would become an accomplice to these levels. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] I'm sorry to say this, but you're acting like a doormat of the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] We should just write: "Welcome dictatorship" and at that point we could close! If there weren't any riots tonight, watch tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u435	Senator Petrocelli, you attribute to me the intentions that I absolutely did not have; I tried, as you know, having participated in the Conference of Leaders, a mediation of which, if we are to speak of things that are not true, you appropriated in the press, declaring that the proposal to move to Article 3 for voting had been made by you. This is enough to understand who collaborates to do something and who instead puts the sticks in the wheel. That's to make it clear. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] He has now asked for the floor of Senator Ruta, who has tabled amendment 1.1445. Please, Senator Ruta. SANTANGELO. Shame! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). He called him a doormat! Come on! [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Lezzi's comments.]] Senator Lezzi, I wouldn't want to call you back to order. Senator Ruta, please, if you speak, maybe they'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u436	Mr President, I do not ask to be heard, but simply to be able to say, in the only speech I will make throughout the debate on constitutional reform, I hope in no more than three minutes, three concepts. The first one. With reference to this speech, I would like to express my solidarity with the President of the Senate. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] That's my personal opinion. Just as I would like to point out... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u437	Quiet! Please, Senator Ruta, speak. We can hear her.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u438	RUTA (PD). I like to talk if it's useful, if I have to do it in the screams I don't speak. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u439	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u440	RUTA (PD). When you speak, I listen silently. I've always listened silently. MORONESE (M5S). And of course, they didn't give us the floor! CASTALDI (M5S). Russo, wasn't that enough for you before? MARTON (M5S). You have to shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk! Senator Marton, please. RUTA (PD). I would also like to clarify for the record that the interruptions are not due to what I say. The second reason I am speaking is because I am convinced that this is certainly not the climate in which the most important constitutional reform can be carried out from 1948 to the present day, and I say this quietly. I say this to my Parent Company, who did not need to ask me to withdraw the amendment: Amendment 1.1445 wanted to indicate that there was another option, which is my personal conviction, that of moving towards a monocameralism. This certainly means overcoming bicameralism and opening, as is written in this amendment, the possibility that the draft laws provisionally approved by the Commissions will be published in order to obtain comments from associations, citizens and categories. Then the Commission can decide what to do with those comments, whether to do so with amendments or to throw them away and then finally approve the text and forward it to the Single Chamber, to the Chamber of Deputies. I say this because I believe that a constitutional reform does not have to be done in any way objectively, and for this I do not blame Titus or Caius, Woods or Renzi or others. I say this, and I address you, Mr President, because that is not the climate. I do not know if it takes less or more time, I do not care, but I know that this is not the climate for profoundly reforming our Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] I would like to make one final point, and then I will be silent and I will no longer speak in the whole debate on this constitutional reform. The concern expressed about the choice of bicameralism and monocameralism was at the heart of the debate I heard participating in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because monocameralism can become an element of danger, of risk, remaining the only Chamber of Deputies. Now, what could be the biggest risk? It is that, for example, that the House alone approves of a constitutional reform; but if we correct the quotients to reform our Constitution with a single Chamber and, in any case, leave the referendum as an instrument of protection that the population has, then citizenship, why then do we have this fear of monocameralism - with respect to bicameralism - that we are moving forward, and that I will continue to vote as I have voted so far? This bicameralism is not an attack on democracy or the Constitution. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! RUTA (PD). My concern is another, it is that it is partial. It is not true that we are completely overcoming bicameralism; there are, in fact, too many elements that can lead to the re-introduction of bicameralism, not to exceed in fact what this constitutional reform was born for, namely the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, therefore of the costs, but above all the improvement of the functioning of the legislative decision-making machine of the Italian Republic. Today the times are ripe so that the second Chamber is no longer the Senate, but both citizenship, which has the power to make observations, to verify, to ask in a more incisive way to operate the referendary system. I therefore withdraw amendment 1.1445.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u441	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u442	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u443	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, first of all I accept the amendment that has just been withdrawn and ask for the vote, because it seems interesting to me. Instead, with regard to the control of the microphone, you said earlier that the microphone does not control it; instead, you have a key with which you control the microphone. At least this mockery of saying that you're not the one in charge of the microphone, please spare us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u444	I said something different, that is, I command him when I need to intervene; when I don't need him he commands who is at the command board. There is an automatic activation, as you know, when the President speaks. SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you don't let me talk, no one sees me, I assure you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u445	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u446	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u447	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I believe that the respect which Mr Ruta also referred to is due to all of us, both to those who are present in this House and, also, to those who continue surprisingly not to come to this House. I read an ANSA report saying: We are making reforms because politics and politicians need to change. And today's scenes show that some senators are wasting their time for fear of losing the chair. This is written on his Facebook profile by Premier Matteo Renzi about the bagarre that broke out in the Senate. Well, first of all, I would like Prime Minister Matteo Renzi to come to this House and support what he has put before us and which presumptuously continues to defend [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] , appealing to an absolutely unmotivated accusation to all those in this House to remain attached to the chair. I think that's indecent! Indecent! He comes here, and tell us here! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , take responsibility for what he does and what he says and take it in front of everyone, opposition and majority, because this is a free insult! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u448	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u449	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u450	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on a point of order. Of course, I think that Senator Mussini is absolutely right, who, in his calm tone, has rightly tried to defend the dignity of this House. Then, since we have returned (and this is already a point of order) to the events relating to the meetings of today's Conference of Leaders, I understand that clearly at the resumption of the meeting of the Leaders we wanted to get to these forces, otherwise we do not understand - and you were witnessing this - the extent of the positions and commitments we had taken both in the first part of the Conference of Leaders, and in the second part. It was obviously decided to make another film - Mr President, now I come to the point of the Rules of Procedure - and so it was even intended to take, perhaps as a provocation, the proposal that I had put on the table with a detailed sheet of the withdrawal of 1,475 amendments tabled in Article 1. These were not meetings or appointments with the Minister, nor were you asked to ask another because the issues we had raised and that you at some meeting of the previous Conference of Leaders had summarized were known. This is not about the issues of the Left Ecology and Freedom component, nor about a single senator, but about the issues that have been going through the debate and the demands of everyone in this House these days. We wanted it to be in the Chamber, because today it was said that it had to be entrusted to the parliamentary dialectic, the will to confront those points and, for this reason, we had declared that we were ready, with the list in hand, to withdraw those amendments. Obviously, however, it was decided that this availability was not acceptable either because it had already been established that there would be force majeure, Mr President, which I consider unacceptable. With regard to our Rules of Procedure, which we discussed for a long time in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure at the time of the famous secret vote concerning the non-ratification of the election of Senator Berlusconi, we have made constant references - and this is the practice - to the combination of our Rules of Procedure and that of the House. Since I have asked - and I renew this request - to have even more precise elements to understand where the decision to apply the kangaroo rule was anchored in that way, I would like to remind you here... [[Brusio.]] Senators, maybe you should listen to me. As I said, I would like to remind you here of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies, President Grasso, that in the disciplinary procedure of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure systematically the use of the so-called kangaroo rule, in '85- bis, paragraph 4, states that: The provisions referred to in the last period of paragraph 8 of Article 85 shall not apply in the discussion of the draft Constitutional Laws and those referred to in Article 24 (12) last sentence. I would like to make this point of order, Mr President, to ask you once again to explain why, in my opinion, our Rules of Procedure have been violated, reading them also with indications that come from the Rules of Procedure of the House and that are clear. It is in fact evident to everyone the spirit and the letter of that paragraph 4, which we know applies also to other norms concerning constitutional laws, which tells us that the procedure of constitutional revision and discussion of constitutional laws takes place through ordinary instruments and that absolutely no instruments are possible and admitted, which are perhaps applicable to conversions of decrees-laws and ordinary laws. Our regulations and the Constitution therefore give us the extraordinary nature of the draft constitutional revision. For this reason, in recalling our Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the House, I ask you once again to apply our Rules of Procedure and its spirit in detail. President, I am always kind and I have always shown you the efforts you have tried to make, but there comes a time when you know that this is the best instrument for this House, for you and for what you represent as President of the Senate. The spirit of the Rules of Procedure is clear and precise and it is the indication that comes from our Constitution that states clearly and without a shadow of a doubt that it is not possible to use very strong instruments and forces in violation of the Rules of Procedure, to speed up the times on draft constitutional laws. Mr President, on this point you will be able to consult all the constitutionalists you want, both those who love this reform and those who do not love it. It is also the spirit of Article 138 of the Constitution that is superimposed on our regulations - and I have mentioned exactly that of the House of Deputies - that should lead everyone to respect the rules, which we must scrupulously observe, which determine in this case to proceed only and exclusively in the ordinary way. It is no coincidence that our Constitution, like all Constitutions, also in regulating the passages indicates the minimum times for the passage from one side to the other and not the maximum time. This further reinforces the fact that it is not possible to use procedures other than ordinary ones. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u451	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u452	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u453	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while I have the greatest respect for everyone, I have listened - for what I have been able to understand, for my difficulty and not for what has been said - to my colleagues in this House and I have understood that there is a great sense of responsibility and will on the part of everyone to make these reforms. I cannot understand why there are colleagues in this House who have to shout to make themselves understood. Then I ask myself a question: either they cannot be understood or there is difficulty on the part of someone to receive this message. However, I do not want anyone to pretend to be deaf, because deafness is of no use to the country at the moment, nor is it of any use to this House that we represent. You see, Mr President, I think you're in good faith. You are a President who has managed the work so far in a very correct and impartial manner and I am sure you will continue to do so. Every now and then each of us may go out of turn, as they say: I apologize for this kind of attitude and take responsibility for those times that I may have gone, as they say, out of turn. I believe that on the part of all the members - I use the term "advisors" - because I mean when there will be Members in Parliament and - advisers - that is, from all of us it would take a pinch of common sense. We should all have a sense of common sense, but in particular someone - as I said in a previous speech - who has been within this Parliament for about thirty years, someone we look at with great interest and listen to, trying to take advantage of what he says, but who sometimes tries to force things into which I cannot understand the motivation. At least I think it is desirable that, at this moment, some people who, outside this House and also within it, try to give lessons, because they have the skills to do so, take the situation in their hands with great responsibility and, through a meeting, which could be done by the Leaders, but which could perhaps also be extended, find the solution to get out of this moment of difficulty. Certainly the path we have taken is not the right one. I would not want anyone in this assembly, in this Senate, to have the intention of letting us speak, because the time at our disposal at some point will end and we will be forced to vote. This could in fact be an act of great unfairness - not political, but moral - towards those who try to carry forward the reasons for democracy and freedom. Mr President, I think we need to find a way out. The Parent Company of Forza Italia was right, just as everyone else was right - not only those of the majority groups, but also the Leaders of the 5 Star Movement and SEL - in saying: we find a way out, because we all want reforms. But as they say on my side, the desire to find an agreement must be mutual: you can't think that I use wonderful words towards you, trying to find availability, and you continue to step on my feet. Continuing to step on our feet, surely we will not be able to find the way out of this moment of difficulty. Then common sense should be taken on the shoulders by each of us to try to find a solution. To conclude, Mr President, since you are a wise man, since we have wise people in this House, I ask you to try to find the right and the right solution and to ensure that each of us can remember these people, whom we had looked at and whom we look with great interest, as points of reference, not in a negative sense, for our future. Mr President, colleagues are right and all those who are asking for it are right: find a moment to suspend the sitting and to have a beautiful meeting - not only in sight but also in content - to find a solution and to get out of this situation of great difficulty. Only then can we find the way to give birth to something wonderful and not an abortion. [[Applause from Senator Longo Eva.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u454	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u455	Senator Divina, do you intend to speak on the amendment made by Senator Martelli? DIVINE (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak on the order of business, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u456	Divine Senator, I'm giving the floor to all my colleagues, but Senator Scilipoti mentioned the times, so it seemed to me. I would not want to be accused of having given too much of the word, just as it was overshadowed by Senator Scilipoti, and then take it all of a sudden, when the times are over: I don't think I deserve this too. Please, Senator Divine, time, however, is ticking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u457	Mr President, we do not know what he deserves. History will decide what each of us deserves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Lezzi.]] We know that we are discussing a reform of the Constitution, of our fundamental Charter, which will enter into force the next legislature, if we are to believe the proposers, in 2018. We cannot understand the need for this kind of coercion, for partisanism in the management of this House, when there is no need for a measure which, as we know, will last at least the next 30 years (constitutional revisions are not done every day) and will enter into force in four years' time. We are surprised at the attitude of those who wanted this measure and signed it. Let us not forget the speech by Mr Nitto Palma, who is ashamed of the way in which things are going, whereas he should be happy that the votes are being speeded up, that amendments are being deleted and that amendments are being skipped. The Rules of Procedure apply with the ius domesticus, not according to the parliamentary rules provided for, but the proposers themselves complain about this management. You get to do this forcing, even where the precedents remain. Mr President, I do not know whether you want to be remembered as the one who upset parliamentary procedures. I listened to your speech on television (because we don't participate in the wild ferragostane), in which you, during the Ventaglio ceremony, stated that your jacket has lost its shape by force of being strangled on one side and on the other. We know that both President Renzi and President Napolitano have not been greedy with phone calls and - we might say - even with pressure on him. We do not know what was behind the pressure, nor what kind of charming proposals, but we can imagine it. President Napolitano arrived at the end of his physical resistance and would like to be replaced. Mr President, even if you have been suggested by the Presidency of the Republic, you should know that those who have done so have proposed it to at least 15 other people. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! A little respect! DIVINE (LN-Aut). I have a lot of respect for the President of the Republic! Shame on you to say such things! We are scorning the President of the Republic, the Italian Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this Senate, which is being trampled on by you constantly and repeatedly! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u458	Divine Senator, you are intervening on the order of business. I therefore ask you to avoid any reference to other institutional positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u459	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Please let me finish, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I will let you finish, but I would remind you that you have asked to speak on the order of business. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am referring to this game, this bluff, these twitters that continue from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It's politics now with these tools! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And journalists, who used to dip the nib in the inkwell, now seem to prefer to dip it in the saliva rather than tell the truth. There is a total flattening of the statements by the President-in-Office of the Council. Let us know, Mr President, that we cannot accept that the next Constitution, ours and our children, for the next thirty years, should be marked as the daughter of a kangaroo stuck in a trap! Shame on you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u460	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1445.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u461	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u462	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u463	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote, but before that there would be a request for suspension by Mr Petrocelli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take care of it. First, however, we shall proceed with this vote, which is virtually imminent, and then I shall proceed with the request for suspension. MARTELLI (M5S). In response to what the President-in-Office of the Council has written, which is offensive to everyone... president. Excuse me, Senator Martelli, you are speaking in an explanation of vote. He has already spoken on the order of business several times. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am entitled to ten minutes for an explanation of vote. Did everyone talk about whatever and I cannot speak in an explanation of vote on an amendment that is four pages long? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u464	Please give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u465	MARTELLI (M5S). Exactly. I'll start over. What I'm saying makes sense, if you'll allow me to use my time. I see he didn't interrupt anyone, but he wants to interrupt me. I'm good and calm, but I'd like to take my time. So, as the President-in-Office of the Council believes that we are a chair warmer and that we are here to defend the chair, this amendment is doing him a favor; it is doing your President-in-Office a favor. Let's try to keep this from becoming an armchair. So, since the Senate will not be elected and everything else, it will be emptied of all its skills, then let's abolish it completely! We have the courage to say that we completely abolish it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If anyone here thinks we're doing a scene...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u466	Are you rewording the amendment, Senator Martelli? MARTELLI (M5S). No, Mr. President. If anyone thinks we're doing a scene, just for the use and consumption of the press, they're wrong. We are trying to use all the regulatory instruments to be able to carry out this debate, in respect of the minority and the opposition, respect which you show you do not have, because you do not need to use this force. You don't need it, because you have the numbers. The majority wins in the end. There is no need to do this, there is no need to make the Rules of Procedure rag paper; just apply it, so in the end you will win it anyway. You don't have to do that. It's called bon ton and you can't use it. So why is this amendment so good and I shall vote in favour of it? It is very good because there is a replacement proposal in an entire amendment. You may or may not like the content, but in here there are many of the points that meet Mr. Renzi, who perhaps sits with the umbrella in the cocktail under the umbrella to pontificate on what the Senate should do, instead of standing in that chair there. He is the one of the "talk", "do", "change", but then there are always the others: let's arm ourselves and leave. I don't see him there, and you should be a little angry, because he's telling you, too, I'm not telling us. You support him, not us; so have at least some respect for yourselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u467	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, in this amendment, there are some points that he needs to meet. Specifically, there are: number 1, the elimination of the Senate; number 2, there are counterweights, as has been illustrated, that ensure that a single-camera system can still have its own reason to be. Moreover, a further reduction in costs is envisaged, since Mr Renzi closely relates the reduction in costs to the reduction in the number of persons. Of course this is false, but if that is the argument, there is the answer here too. So you have no other alternative, if you really want to be consistent with yourself, to vote on this amending proposal, or at least if you do not like the package, this is the time to propose a split vote and to vote explicitly only on the part where the Senate is proposed and the number of Members reduced. That's the invitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The proposal is: do what your President-in-Office has asked you to do. And the final call is not to force the Rules of Procedure continuously, because we are simply asking that the Rules of Procedure be applied as it is. We do not ask for favors, we only ask for fairness; it seems to me the minimum union. You too, if you have any conscience, think that this is not right. If you were in our place, you wouldn't want that to happen. And then you always have to think you're on the other side, on the side of the sufferer. I shall conclude by saying that this is a good amendment, and it should be voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u468	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u469	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u470	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, we shall vote against this amendment, first of all because it defines, in a general way and in many ways also inapplicable, certain functions that the Senate should have. The least that convinces us is the role of control that the Senate should play on local authorities. RUTA (PD). It's repealed! D'ANNA (GAL). Are we discussing Amendment No 1.1446? PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, we are discussing amendment 1,1445, tabled by Senator Ruta, withdrawn and made by Senator Martelli. D'ANNA (GAL). Then I'll speak later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u471	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,445, tabled by Senator Ruta, subsequently withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senators Martelli and Cotti. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has already been requested and voted on. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I now consider the request to suspend work for half an hour. The sitting shall be suspended until 9.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9 p.m. and resumed at 937 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u472	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u473	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u474	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Before the suspension, among the various things reported by Senator De Petris, there was a point that had struck my attention in particular. I am referring to the application of the legislation of the so-called kangaroo, in analogy with the legislation of the House of Deputies. I understand - if I have not understood myself - that you have referred to Rules 85 and 85- bis of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies as regards the possibility of applying by analogy the so-called kangaroo rule also to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u475	To be precise, so let's go on with the reasoning, I read what Senator Mancino gave as a motivation to adopt the kangaroo rule. I didn't say I adopted it in analogy. It's different. I just read a precedent and a practice. It was to specify what is attributed to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u476	In addition to reading the precedents, I think it would be useful to read the norms, especially for those who have been a magistrate for a lifetime. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Rule 85-a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, in the fourth paragraph, reads: The provisions referred to in the last period of paragraph 8 of Article 85 shall not apply in the discussion of the draft Constitutional Laws and of those referred to in Article (...)................................................................................................................................ This rule is very clear and does not need interpretation because in claris not fit interpreted. I wonder how the President of the Senate does not apply such a rule. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me say that we are faced with a very poor conduct of the work of this House. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u477	I would also like to thank you for referring to my record. There are those who continue to exercise or to be in the judicial order. However, having said that, I explained that analogy is one thing and the application of the norm is another. You who are magistrates or who have been magistrates can well understand the difference. That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1146. Verification of the statutory number PETROCELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Excuse me, the quorum check is still open. Even Senator Stefani. MARTON (M5S). Wait for everyone to come back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Resumption of the discussion of constitutional drafts no. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454 MARTON (M5S). Let's warm up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is Amendment No 1.1446.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u478	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u479	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u480	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, just to take my curiosity away: why have we verified the presence of the quorum? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). He made the request for electronic voting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the purposes of the vote. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. No. The request for electronic voting exceeds the request for verification of the quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, thank you, I'll take note of that. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Ignorant! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, it was also a way to call back to the House those who might have been lingering. MORONESE (M5S). Just make a call to the restaurant!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u481	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u482	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u483	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to speak on Amendment No 1,1446, tabled by my Group, although it is demeaning to intervene after certain attitudes, forcings and bottlenecks that we have witnessed, so that more than 1,400 amendments have been cut at once. We are dealing here with a number of issues relating to the functions of the Chambers. I want to point out, as the previous speaker, in particular Senator Casson, rightly said, that today the Rules of Procedure have been torn apart, and that is very shameful. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I am sorry, Mr President, you know that I am always a very calm and moderate person, but in the face of the bottleneck of voting of more than 1,400 amendments, we have not even been given the opportunity to check which were missed and there were some very important issues on which to debate. I would also point out that we voted, ladies and gentlemen, on an amendment that has not been tabled in this House, in which I challenge any of you to understand what was written, because it was four pages long and it was going to amend twenty articles of the Constitution and it was voted at a speed, without anyone, not even you of the Democratic Party, seeing what it contained. Having said that, and as a demonstration of the fact that the League has tabled a few amendments, we continue to reiterate it, all of merit and substance in order to improve this text, to give voice to the citizens, to ensure the representation of the people and to improve in many parts a text written with our feet, to demonstrate this, amendment 1.1446 (there will be others even after) intervenes on the functions of the Chambers, to restore a concept, that is, the fact that as drawn up in the text of the Government that we are considering, although amended by the Commission, is not sufficiently guaranteed the balance between powers and the balance between the Chambers, especially as regards the function of guarantee and the function of control. With this amendment, we are submitting to the House a better and more correct wording than the functions of the two chambers. We are talking about the Senate of the Autonomies: in the text we would have liked to maintain this formulation of "Senate of the Autonomies" to make it clear to everyone that we were going to set up a new Chamber that really represented Regions and territories, and beyond this in particular we would like to emphasize that this new Chamber, even if it is true that the relationship of trust with the Government remains in the Chamber of Deputies, must participate in the decisions directed to the formation and implementation of the legislative acts of the European Union. It must have this control function. It is not possible that we are always ratifying treaties that are being lowered from the top without being able to express ourselves. The Senate must also exercise the functions of monitoring the activities of public administrations, of verifying the implementation of the laws of the State and of evaluating public policies. I hope that colleagues will at least take the trouble to read the text because, as it is formulated, it is very clear and that they will express their views on this amendment which, I repeat, is of substance and improvement of the text. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u484	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u485	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u486	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, with regard to the comments made by Senator Casson and others who have spoken, we could probably resolve the debate if we were to monitor whether or not to apply the Mancino resolution on mutual recognition in the Senate Rules of Rule 85-bis of the House of Deputies, i.e. whether or not the so-called kangaroo rule was applied in 2004. This would comfort or not the operation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u487	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u488	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u489	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because this issue cannot be sidelined quickly. Compared to what Senator Casson and Mr De Petris have said, let us go to the dates: the Council for the Rules of Procedure expressed itself on 17 July 1996 - it is written in the notes of the Rules of Procedure - and referred to Rule 85 of the House as an analogy. Rule 85-a was introduced on 24 September 1997, after the opinion of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, that opinion of the Junta which referred to an article today no longer finds its support in the analogy of 85-a. If this opinion had been expressed after the approval of the 85-a then I would have righted it because the Junta had already known about that article, but it was introduced later; this means that that opinion is null today; it no longer has its foundation. Therefore, if this is to be assessed, we would ask you, Mr President, to give an opinion on this subject in the light of the new Rule 85a, which was introduced after the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u490	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u491	[[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] MARTON (M5S). All right, what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are so many precedents I'm not here to quote. Anyway, we're gonna go check out these situations. MARTON (M5S). When?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u492	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u493	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u494	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1.1446 which, as Mr Bisinella has said, reviews the functions of the House and the Senate. I have some concerns about the definition of the Senate of self-government, but the rest of the text quite well divides the functions between the two branches of Parliament. A further concern - which, however, does not depend on the text but on what will come out of this House - is when it is said that the Senate participates in decisions aimed at the formation and implementation of European Union legislation. It is an activity that the Senate currently carries out with the 14th The Commission, but not only because it is a widespread activity in the other Commissions too, cannot depend solely on the internal activity of Parliament, but it must react to external impulses, to inputs coming from outside, that is, from the European Parliament or the European Commission. Therefore, I believe that this workload that may come in both the descending and the ascending stages - with this amendment you point your finger on this aspect in particular - will depend a lot on the composition of the Senate, because the workload will also depend on how many people will be part of this Senate, and on the fact that, being its members also regional advisers, as is assumed in the text we are discussing, rather than mayors, they will have a double position. I do not know, therefore, how much work that will come from the European Union that, as we know, is a higher source of law than the Italian Parliament and that, in fact, 60%, 70% of the laws applied in Italy have a direct derivation from the European Union. I am making this observation because it is a perplexity resulting from the reading of amendment 1.1446 but which I believe is contained in the idea of a new Senate composed of 100 future senators with double assignment, except five that could be totally dedicated to this activity. As has already been said, I am therefore voting in favour of this amendment. However, I suspect that I did not quite understand the last part of the amendment, which would read as follows: 'Replace the article with the following: '(...) Government's. One more final sentence I don't understand what to replace. I don't know if it's a mistake, or I wonder how the final sentence has to be interpreted: The Parliament shall meet in common session of the members of the two chambers only in the cases laid down in the Constitution. Is it a replacement or an addition? I did not understand how this should be understood, but I believe it is a problem of coordination of the text that will be solved by the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u495	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u496	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u497	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, since we are talking about interpretation and it is very likely that the junta on the Rules of Procedure will be convened, I would also like to refer to the junta on the Rules of Procedure the interpretation of the break-up that has been implemented. Keep in mind, Mr President, that you, under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, are the only body representing the Senate. I would ask you to always use your prerogatives and, if necessary, appreciate the circumstances, under Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, to check whether there have been irregularities in the votes, following the interpretation of the election committee, on the vote on amendment 1.32, which has been split. I say this because, as has been pointed out with regard to amendment 1.35, on Amendment 1.32, a split has been applied which has absolutely no logical meaning. When the break-up of amendment 1.32 was decided, it was said that this was the case: the first part went from the words "to replace Chapter I" to the other parts of the Constitution. If you unpack and then do not follow the parts related to Articles 56 and 57 set aside no longer makes sense. I therefore believe that with regard to amendment 1.32, you appreciate the circumstances and carry out checks on the shorthand report in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you can consider whether or not to cancel that vote, of course if you consider it appropriate also in view of the examination of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u498	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1446, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1447, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Give us time to vote, as it is not so diligent in verifying the quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1448.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u499	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u500	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u501	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, with Amendment No 1.1448 it is proposed to make the Senate the House of Reflection, the House to which the work of major reforms is attributed, and therefore a purely legislative activity. Therefore, leaving to the Chamber of Deputies the task of controlling the government's work and maintaining the relationship of trust to it, the Senate would become a Chamber dealing only with that legislation which is concurrent with the regional one and directed to the formation and implementation of European legislation. The idea is therefore to seek to overcome the perfect bicameralism, thus returning to the speech made on several occasions in this House. The majority of Members of this House share the desire to overcome the perfect bicameralism. No one or, in any case, very few in this House can be called conservatives closed to any desire to innovate the order to make it more efficient. What we have set ourselves, imagining, studying and seeing what is being done elsewhere, is to make Parliament's work more efficient, but maintaining in Parliament an alternative to the Government which allows it to balance its power as well as, not from yesterday, but from Montesquieu onwards, says the liberal thinking. So democracy, yes, decisions in the hands of the majority, yes, but in that respect of minorities, which in an alternation are to rotate, which makes those who have the majority after a political election not become the master of steam, do not become the force that everything can. The philosophy behind overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which is shared by most of the colleagues in this House, is one thing; it is another thing to imagine that every election the part that wins - pass me the term - takes power and manages all its levers. I would like to draw everyone's attention to this point, because it is extremely important. I remember that a colleague in one of the last sessions said one simple and wise thing: we must work on the reform of the system as if we could lose the next election. I see that the colleagues of the Democratic Party - with whom in the past, as a citizen, I have shared many struggles for democracy in this country - are fascinated at the moment by the idea of being able to win the elections and of being able to do it, forgetting, however, that eliminating all the constraints imposed by a liberal system entails the risk - first for themselves and then for the others who could win the elections - of overturning the table and making extremely harmful changes. I'm not talking about the reforms that President Renzi probably has in mind and that I initially thought might look like Blair's, but that I'm beginning to fear may look like Thatcher's. I'm not talking about those reforms, which, frankly, I'm a little worried about. I think instead of the flexibility of the Constitution that we are implementing, because although it is true that Article 138 of the Constitution remains unchanged, it is also true that, with the majority that would be created with the constitutional change that will come out of this work, the Constitution could be changed by any head of the particularly daring and casual majority, to transform Italy, as we know it, into a country of South America of other times. Attention, colleagues: I am not saying that this is your intention. What I am saying, that it is my fear and that I would like to be analyzed and perhaps overcome by other people's arguments, is that you are working to remove a whole series of security and a whole series of brake elements, which in recent times have kept well, because there have been attempts to reverse the balance in this country. You are taking care to remove a whole series of brakes, which today seem like laces and laces, but that tomorrow - or the day after tomorrow - could be a lifesaver for the democracy of our Republic. In fact, we are all aware that we are not working on any standard, but we are working on the standard on which everything will stand for the next decades. That is why, as I said earlier in this House, attitudes of impatience with other people's arguments are inappropriate, and that applies to all parts of this House. It is extremely important that all of us (I do not want to use very high terms, such as constituent spirit or others), in full awareness of what we are doing, take on a series of questions, which we owe to ourselves and to those who will come after us, to be frank in making our decisions and to be sure, no matter how much we can be in this life. That is why, as I have already done on other occasions, I would ask you to reconsider the possibility of taking a pause for reflection. Unfortunately, I note that the government is not going to do this, but rather intends to move like a rock-cracker. It's sad, but that's what I saw, even tonight. That is why I would ask you to vote on this amendment and, basically, to see, in the second Chamber, not a body which is only maintained to eliminate it later. Colleagues, this is in fact what we are doing, because the Senate of the Autonomies is not an organ that will last very long. I would ask you, instead, to see in the second Chamber a body which, together with the Chamber of Deputies, is a Parliament in a position to cooperate with the Government but, at the same time, to temper its power: activities that I believe are useful to everyone. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u502	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1448, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1449, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u503	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u504	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u505	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, since I have not even had time to breathe, I am obliged to make a very brief explanation of vote on the amendment that we have just rejected, on 1.1449. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). But it has already been voted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, I am sorry that you have not been able to make your explanation of vote in good time, but this is certainly not a time for consideration of the amendments and rapid voting, which take place one after the other. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have a problem now and I hope that this speech will not be counted in the time available to me. Let me explain the way in which we, on this side of the House, have the opportunity to draw your attention when we ask for the floor. Since - as you feel - I've gone crazy, tell me how to do it. [[Senator Bruno's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u506	Senator De Petris, before I proceed to the vote on an amendment, I will try to look on your side. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,1450.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u507	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u508	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u509	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I make a new statement, which has not been made in these eight hours and more than in the sitting. We want a lighter Senate here. In fact, the opposition wants an average Senate, rather than heavy, as it is today, or light as the government wants it. We would like it to be medium and elective and, in order to balance the situation, we would also like a lighter House. So we would like to take some Members out of the House just to balance the two sides. A lighter room with 250 deputies, probably younger than senators, and a senior chamber with 250 senators. This would respond to the need to see greater savings, because it is said that senators cost and represent an increase for the state's coffers. It is true that they are an increase and that is why we are reducing the number of them. At the same time, however, we also reduce the Members of the House. Therefore, I urge you not to vote on this amendment, because you will not vote on it anyway. Do as you think. I call on those who support the opposition to vote on it. The government side perseveres in its choice and does not vow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u510	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u511	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u512	MARTON (M5S). I call for amendment 1,1450 to be voted on separately. The first part is: Art. 1. - One. Article 56 of the Constitution is replaced by the following: "Art. 56. - The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal and direct suffrage, taking into account the necessary gender balance. The second part is: "The number of Members is two hundred and fifty. The third part is: All voters who have reached twenty-one years of age on election day are eligible for Members. The fourth part is: The distribution of seats between the districts is carried out by dividing the number of inhabitants of the Republic, as shown by the last general census of the population, by two hundred and fifty and distributing the seats in proportion to the population of each division, on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remains." (Senator Ghedini Rita asks to intervene.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u513	Please, Senator Ghedini. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Senator Ghedini asked to intervene. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). He didn't let me intervene before. Put it to the vote like you did before! CRIMI (M5S). He said we'd vote first and then we'd argue! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I was asked for a split vote and there was a request for an intervention. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] It was Senator Palma who raised this problem. [[Lives, repeated protests from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrara. Senator Palma asks to intervene.]] In the meantime, I gave Senator Ghedini the floor, then you can intervene, Senator Palma. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. No! CRIMI (M5S). First we vote, not only when it suits you, President! SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Put your trust in it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma's word. [[Senator Lezzi's protests.]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Just one second, unleash a moment later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, I called you in... PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since you mentioned my speech... I took note of your speech...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u514	No, ma'am. To be honest, I have said that, if there is no opposition to the request for a split vote, there is really no reason to open a debate. I never said that the President of the Senate should urge Senator Ghedini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u515	I didn't solicit anyone. So, clearly, if Senator Ghedini doesn't speak, we don't know if she's in favour of or against separate voting. That's obvious to me. [[Very lively protests from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). First we vote and then we debate! SANTANGELO (M5S). Two weights and two sizes! [[Senator Lezzi's protests are alive.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Bottic quaestors, please. MARTON (M5S). You don't have to afford it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, I'm calling you back to order. MARTON (M5S). I don't care if he calls me back! [[Lively protests from Senator Santangelo.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order. Excuse me, there's no way you asked Senator Ghedini to speak and you're not being given the floor. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). He said we'd vote first and then we'd argue. Those are your words, President. If you read them, it's written in the minutes! GAETTI (M5S). Shame on you! M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Let's vote! Let's vote! CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). The Senate is not yours! PUGLIA (M5S). This is the victory of the anti-state! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, given the time, let's read the Rules of Procedure. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Stop! GAETTI (M5S). Look at what you've done before and do it now, if it's consistent! (Senator Bulgarelli asks to intervene.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Mr. Bottici. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). (Addressing to Senator Bottici and pointing out the bench of the Presidency). There's the problem! The problem is sitting there! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on amendment 1,1450 tabled by Senator Marton. It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u516	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u517	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u518	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to understand one thing. When you raised the problem of the previous split votes, you allowed for a broad debate; then, not assuming the responsibility of deciding, you made the House vote. This was perhaps a thorny problem, i.e. the impact of the part for which secret voting was envisaged with regard to the other part of the amendment. In the present case, Mr President, it seems to me that reading the amendment requiring separate votes, that first of all there is no subject relating to secret voting, but that each part of the amendment has its own legislative autonomy; which, of course, did not seem to me to lead to a decision that was so complicated and so difficult to request the help of the House. It was a decision that she could take quietly, without - excuse me if I use the term improperly: there would be more, I know her personal history well - entrenched behind the vote of the House. So, Mr President, for the second time, I repeat the meaning of my previous speech. The responsibility for guiding the work of this House lies with you, and when decisions are not particularly controversial, they cannot be entrusted to the vote of this House, because if you entrust it to the vote of this House, it restricts the rights of the opposition, whatever it may be. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] This whole speech worries me very seriously, because I would not want a tomorrow, when, hypothetically, the Senate should be presided over by a person far less enlightened than you, to have recourse to a precedent that is exactly what you have been running. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] The decision on the split vote, as well as many other decisions, must be taken by you, taking responsibility for it. But what is the problem, with regard to this amendment, of saying: does this part have or does not have regulatory autonomy? When you make the House vote, since the speeches of majority and opposition are clear, it is clear that any request made by the opposition will be rejected, without you assuming the relative responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Dear God, this is democracy, and it is useless for you to smile. I've known her for too long, so I don't care about her smile. Her smile identifies her in front of all of us senators. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u519	Senator Palma, as you know, the Rules of Procedure provide that the proposal can be made by each Senator and on it the Sovereign Assembly (I say "sovereign") deliberates by show of hands without debate, and so we did [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Read it all! Read it all! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This establishes Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u520	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u521	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u522	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander, for seeing me and giving me the floor. In the meantime, I would like to thank you for having for once maintained what you said before, namely that there is no debate on requests for separate votes. We do not see why Senator Ghedini should have spoken (who speaks constantly), but in this case you said before that we could not discuss this: either the Rules of Procedure apply to everyone or they do not apply to anyone, and so I would like to thank you for keeping what you have said. I would like to remind you, however, since I think it will be the last time you will give me the floor today (maybe tomorrow I will speak again, but for today I think it will be the last time), that requests have been made both to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to suspend our work to carry out a check on all the 'kangaroo' amendments (which cover more than 600 pages), i.e. to check whether this so-called kangarooing has been done well or whether, given that the work has been very hasty, something has escaped and I believe that it is the right of all to be able to verify. It was also asked, if possible, before moving on to other articles where there might be again the possibility of using the kangaroo rule, to carry out another check because the Rules of Procedure state that this technique cannot be applied to constitutional rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have not responded to any of these requests. He is continuing to move forward with the votes as if no one had asked for anything. I hope that before tomorrow's sitting these questions will have an answer, otherwise we are already proving the dictatorship that will be after the reform that you are bringing to this House, which is the High House of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And today in this Upper House, you, Commander, are really acting in such a way that I do not have an adjective that you can use in this House. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] They give me many suggestions, but I would never have allowed myself. I believe that as long as we exist we have the right to intervene, to be seen, to be heard and to have answers that are always consistent, because you are creating not only practices that were not there, but also precedents and this is very serious because we have ten days of work ahead of us and if you create a precedent today, you will be able to use it for the next ten days and none of us will be able to say anything and: I find it very incorrect on the part of a super commander of the Upper House of the State to assume such a responsibility. So, if, as I was saying the other day in my speech, you no longer command here but Zanda who says you can quote the times, you tell us, but sit there Zanda and don't sit there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u523	Senator Bulgarelli, I won't allow you to make these insinuations, point one. Point two...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u524	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). It's the truth. BULGARRELLI (M5S). It's not an insinuation, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u525	I'll call you back to order. Be on the record, please. [[Protests.]] Senator Bulgarelli, have you finished talking? Perhaps someone forgets this, but I made it clear that I would use these sloping instruments in a series of repetitive amendments, as you have also seen. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So the so-called kangaroo is the effect of the repetition of the amendments. It must be understood by those who hear names like kangaroo or others and do not understand. TAVERNA (M5S). For 600 pages? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The repetitiveness of the amendments with minor changes, e.g. figures, on the number of senators or Members then leads, after the vote on the first part, to the foreclosure of the others. We have always done this in this House: I wanted to clarify this. BULGARRELLI (M5S). No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bulgarelli, you have already spoken, even too much, and you have been called to order. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u526	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u527	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u528	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as I recall very well your statements on the kangaroo instrument, because I believe they are on the record and we can trace them, even at the meetings of the group leaders, you forgot that you had already given a number of indications on the number of amendments (maybe some group leaders will remember) that, according to the checks you and the offices you had done, they were possibly kangarooable. You know perfectly well that those indications do not correspond - and that is why, Mr President, we asked you to check them - to the operation that was carried out tonight. I put them before very precise questions about the use of these instruments. You could certainly speak on the repetitive amendments, but you should - and this did not happen - have more respect, without force, for the application of this instrument, precisely because we are in the debate on a constitutional law. I say this once again: I believe that it is absolutely essential at this point that you give us time and provide us with the necessary checks on these 600 pages and I believe that it is absolutely necessary that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should also meet, because I also believe that it is your absolute interest, Mr President, to say not only in words, I am the President and I must guarantee this whole House, but that I really do so. Mr President, majorities pass by; I have seen some majorities pass by, there are others now, but what is unacceptable is that the President of the Senate does not ensure that minority rights are not put to the vote, because then we close it here. Tell us now and we will of course make another choice, because if all the issues concerning the modalities and rules are put to the vote, you know, Mr President, what that means. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u529	It seems to me that there has been a debate on the possible withdrawal of repetitive amendments and we are firm on that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u530	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u531	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u532	BUCCARELLA (M5S). President. - The next item is the order of business. You do well to worry and try to explain what the kangaroo is and what kind of activity this strange animal is doing that appeared here today in the Senate. It is good, because there are many citizens who are following this live television (we see it from our social media) and many are reporting something - which we have been able to verify here on live - watching the television channel of the Senate, the live channel that is broadcast everywhere: last, my colleague Bulgarelli was substantially obscured during her speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's a lot of people reporting this to us. My colleague Mrs Bulgarelli - I am Mr Buccarella; I understand that at this time tiredness looms, but we continue to confuse our surnames - he referred - and we are doing this more and more - to the technical tests of a dictatorship. Perhaps the term "dictatorship" may seem frightening, but for the technical tests of an authoritarian system, look, gentlemen, that things begin from here: from censorship, from information that is reset! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, please be the guarantor at least of the fact that what is happening here and the things that are said here are perceptible and visible by all the citizens who are witnessing this disaster. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u533	You know exactly how the mechanism works.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u534	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Then it has to be changed! [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u535	However, the audio is certainly not taken away from anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u536	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u537	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u538	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course it will not count (at least I hope) the time we wait for others to stop commenting. Mr President, what he is saying at the moment is true: we are obscured in our speeches and audio is also taken away; we cannot hear it. This is a clearly biased direction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators D'Anna and Mussini]] ). President, a few days ago, 76 senators and 3 group leaders went to the Quirinale: we saw what reception there was. Agencies report strong pressure from the Colle on this constitutional reform. I have serious doubts about your serenity in the management of this House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u539	I won't allow you to make these hints! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Don't interrupt me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I won't allow you to make these hints! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I make all the hints I want! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You read your agencies, I do my job. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's my right! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I won't allow you to make these hints! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You deny me a constitutional right! I have the right... No, no one has the right to offend! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I have the right to allude and to say that you are under pressure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have no right to offend an institution! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You're under blackmail! You're not a free person! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have no right to offend. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm not offending you. I'm letting the senators know that you're under blackmail in here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have no right to offend, understand? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). He is not a serene person in his judgment and in his administration of the House! This is demonstrated by the fact that when we voted on Amendment 1.35 I pointed out to you that the headings of the following amendments were different and, despite this, you did not accept the verification by the Commission and did not even deign to verify what I said, and you kangarooed everything by closing your mouth on 600 amendments! Resign! Shame on you! I'm blacked out right now! You have that on your conscience! Fascist! Fascist! Fascist!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u540	[[Applause and lively protests from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u541	Senator Ferrara, were you referring to this earlier?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u542	[[Senator Ferrara Mario agreed.]] Senator Candiani, have you completed your surgery? We have to vote on the amendment... CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, ma'am, I didn't finish the surgery!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u543	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u544	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u545	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out once again what I said earlier, but this time I would like to add something. You said you adopted the kangaroo technique: okay. We also have those who act in this House: that's fine. But the technique of the kangaroo of paragraph 8 of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which we have borrowed, has very precise rules, which I have not seen applied. You didn't apply the kangaroo: you yourself spoke of cutting: you used that term. President, look, don't run away from the synographical reports, I'll go get them: you said kangaroo or so-called trap.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u546	I said there's an improper use of the term leghold trap. On this we do not change the things said, precisely because there are synographical reports. So don't let things go through that I didn't say! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u547	All right, ma'am, there are synographical reports. I read part of paragraph 8 of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber: "The President shall put to the vote the one that most departs from the original text and a certain number of intermediate amendments to the amendment closest to the original text, declaring the others to be absorbed." We went from 1.45 to 1.145: Mr President, if these are the middlemen, you tell me what kind of kangaroo you adopted. This is not a kangaroo: this is a 40 meter long jump. Six hundred pages skipped. This isn't the kangaroo! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, ma'am, let's stick to the rules as they are.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u548	Voicemail tells me that President Zanda has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u549	[[Comments from the M5S Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). The king speaks! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We guarantee everyone the chance to talk. Stay still.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u550	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u551	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u552	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to apologize on behalf of the senators who have been offending you for a long time. I'd like to apologize for them. [[Live applause from the PD Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Not in our name! AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! (Some Senators of the M5S Group turn around giving their backs to the Presidency). ZANDA (PD). And I want to say to you, President, that those who are so unfairly offending you do not realize that the protection of the... LEZZI (M5S). Apologize to you! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u553	Senator Lezzi, let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u554	Mr Lezzi (M5S). You cannot speak on our behalf, President!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u555	I'll call you back to order. Bottic quaestors, can you intervene? [[Protests of Senator Lezzi]] Calm down, Senator Lezzi, you don't have to get upset like that. Mr Lezzi (M5S). You can't speak for us! But why do you speak for us? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see that there is also a form of respect for the presidency... VOICE BY THE M5S GROUP. It's for Zanda! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Zanda. AIROLA (M5S). You do your job for PD! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, lower your voice! Senator Zanda has the word. MARTON (M5S). You have to earn it, respect! ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, I apologized and I'm staying here. SANTANGELO (M5S). Zanda, shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u556	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u557	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u558	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say one thing and I will certainly not offend you, because it is not really my costume and I believe that my colleagues know me, but I would like to explain why I too think you were wrong to do what you did, to make this decision, and above all I want to speak to those who listen to us from outside, not to those who listen to us in this House. You see, today I have asked myself many times why a small party like mine, which was allied with the Democratic Party a few months ago in the general election... MARTON (M5S). You made them win! De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). My party, in the course of these months of Parliament and opposition, first to the Government of broad understanding and then to the Government of what we have called the small broad understandings, has never used the tones of a particularly shouted opposition, has always challenged with great force the placed ones, has always radically contested (I have done it a lot of times, you will give me notice) all attempts to throw the debate into demagogy, to use wrong arguments and has always made this a point of honor, I come to say. This party had tabled amendments, because, in the face of a number of things that have happened during these months, it had used this instrument almost as a self-defense, let me say, because when you change the electoral law by putting barriers that are not in any part of Europe, when they put you majority prizes that are not in any part of Europe, when they put you another time the history of blocked lists and when at the same time they build you an electoral mechanism in the Senate that blows you up the hypothesis that the sovereign people can vote and when they still prevent you, small party, even to collect signatures to make a referendum, you can do nothing but use all the tools of democracy and do to the full legitimate defense! Nothing else you can do when this happens! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]] So, I asked myself, President: why is it that when a small party like this, which has tabled amendments, is well aware that it is a small party (taking 4%, in this country, and not 30%) and also recognizing its point of limit not being able to impose its will on that of the majority, it says it is ready to withdraw its amendments and to do this it asks to open a debate on the subject, it asks that some basic elements of this reform can be discussed to improve them, on the other hand does it find a wall? Then there is a suspicion: there comes the suspicion that that small party found the wall when it asked its interlocutors to open a political negotiation because it was already known that the kangaroo rule would be used! [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] There was no intention of building a negotiation because probably the ace in the sleeve was already there: the use of the so-called kangaroo; the idea, then implemented, of removing between 1,600 amendments; and even the misuse, once again, of the worst of all: and I explain. I have said this a thousand times in this House, and you will acknowledge that I have been a total opponent of the forms of demagogy, always, but I have said so many times in this House that if there is one thing that you really cannot bear more than demagogy is the demagogy done from above! I say this to my colleagues, even to those who today applaud the somewhat populist outings of the President-in-Office of the Council, who of course know that he finds it easy to agree, because when he speaks to the belly of the people and addresses them by quoting the salaries of the senators and saying that he is doing all this to impress the caste it is clear that in Italy of 2014 he finds an easy consensus today! But it builds a devastating operation of political culture! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed Groups]] Consider, colleagues in the Democratic Party, how devastating this operation is on the ground of political culture, how easy it is! I radically contested the 5 Star Movement and Beppe Grillo when he, that leader, that Movement, used these tools because I thought these tools brought the country into the abyss! But I think the same thing if the President of the Council does this; indeed he has an even greater degree of responsibility, because when you are the President of the Council of all Italians you must try never to lose the compass, and even when you are in a bitter political controversy, like the one that has been in the Senate these days, and like the one that is naturally there in these days also, fortunately, outside here (because the country listens to us and questions us about what is happening in this Chamber), if you use the tools of easy consent you do not do something positive for the country! So, President, you see, I in this House, in all these weeks, in any television broadcast, in any newspaper, have never used - and I will not do so even today - the terms 'authoritarian turn', because I do not believe it; because I do not believe that this constitutional reform is an authoritarian turning point, and I will not use those terms even tonight. But I think, Mr President, that the combined arrangement - let me say this once again, I have used this expression many times - of what we have seen today, its behaviour, the trap, the kangaroo, the fact of not having the opposition discussed, the reaction you have had to our request for negotiation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, these statements by the President-in-Office of the Council, which do not help Italy to emerge from the crisis of political culture that has taken place over all these years, are certainly not the authoritarian turning point, but they are certainly a very bad page of our democracy! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto Groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u559	Senator De Cristofaro, I don't know what it alludes to because I don't follow statements while I'm here: you can do it and I can't do it, so I don't know what statements you're talking about. All I know is that your allusions to the fact that the negotiation has failed because you knew how to handle all this then I do not accept it, because it is an offense to those who have worked day and night to try to get out of this repetitive 8,000 amendments! [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Santangelo's comments. Senator De Petris is protesting.]] That must be known. [[Comments of Senator Puglia]] You must know that this is the effect of what you have done before. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Bondi and Susta Senators.]] I defend the offices that have worked and no one has failed negotiations only for this. [[Senator De Petris' protests.]] I do not allow such doubts to be raised. [[Reiterate protests by Senator De Petris]] I won't allow this! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] If the negotiations have gone off, they have jumped because someone has not taken the responsibility to deal with them. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's you! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When we want to get back to the vote... There is an amendment tabled by Senators Bencini and Romans that is still waiting to be voted on. SANTANGELO (M5S). No way! Call Napolitano. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I accept explanations of vote on this point. We are in the process of voting on the amendments. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). He allowed it to everyone!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u560	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u561	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u562	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, you have every willingness to complete the work and we have it too. However, allow me to say with great respect that you reminded me of the coat of arms of the city of Paris which - as you know - is a ship that sails through the waves. Precisely, fluctuat nec mergitur, i.e., "mi barcameno" and not "deep." Why am I telling you this? Because I have a feeling that most of it is... president. You are given to intervene on a personal basis, so don't be surprised if I speak on a personal basis too! [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). At the end of the session though! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, at the end of the session. D'ANNA (GAL). President, let's be clear. You can do as far as I'm concerned, President. "Navicella", "barcamena": leave these images on Paris and other things alone. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] D'ANNA (GAL). They're allegories, ma'am. Let us come to the most concrete facts. First of all, I am going to vote in favour of Amendment No 1,1450 and I would add that everything that is going on in here could probably not have happened if you had not given the impression that you were somewhat obnoxious in the decisions. I'm not telling you that you're on either side. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! D'ANNA (GAL). We still have to look at something like 4,500 amendments, net of kangaroos! [[Laughter]] I think we need to settle down, and I think we'll all have to give it to each other, because when you scream and scream, you don't understand much. I have to tell you, Mr President, that it is serious for us to stop broadcasting outside while we are talking. It's a sin to think wrong, but it's often guessed. Tell us clearly if you want to vote on this anyway, by tearing up regulations, customs, practices. Now there is a witch hunting climate: we are the bad guys who want to prevent you from reforming the Constitution and you are the modern constituents (I don't know if fathers or mothers, I didn't quite understand what kind you are). So, Mr President, what do I mean? Let us all make a regulation and you use the authority that is recognized to you (I remember that you are the second office of the State). In fact, from the Colle we get some earshots, while the President of the Council continues to be a naughty man and paints us like those who are here - let me say - for the'mesata', as they say in Naples. We do not need the salary; I repeat for the hundredth time: we are here because we want to defend the right of the Italian people to vote and choose Members. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]] Because in the face of this simple request, the Government is tetragonal, in the sense that it does not want to insert the word "elective" into the constitutional reform that it proposes us and much less wants to talk about the electoral law, already approved by the other House, which remains in limbo and gives no guarantees to anyone, we have all the good reasons not to feel calm. This is not because we have to defend the scrancio, Mr President, but because we have a legitimate role to play as representatives of the people. I, for example, belong to a group, but I am not in line with my party because we are not voting on an ordinary law, but something that has extraordinary. What, then, is my proposal? You did not bring the Rules of Procedure committee together. Great. He brought the Leaders together, but I think you've just been a notary. I ask you, therefore, to go where you have to go, having the mandate of all of us (of those who think in one way and of those who think in another way, because nobody denies this mandate) to find with the other offices of the State a harmony to agree with the Leaders a schedule, guaranteeing to those who must speak to be able to speak. It is clear that in the end there will be a majority voting for this measure, but - I don't want to be a philosopher - in open societies (almost we have all read "Open society and its enemies" of Popper) democracy is not the tyranny of the majority (I tell Zanda that he can teach me these things), just as it is not the tyranny of the minority. We must then find a point of conjunction between those who think in one way and those who think in another. It is not that I should vote as a majority or that the majority should vote as I do, but you, Mr President, must stand up in your authority. In fact, let me tell you that, if you continue to be caught up in the contingency without playing the high and noble role that belongs to you as the second office of the State, we leave here in August.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u563	Thank you, but I believe that my role is right here, and not to do a mediation work that I do not have to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u564	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u565	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u566	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am not speaking to make an explanation of vote, but on the order of business. Tonight I didn't want to intervene anymore, because I think the limit on certain things has now been reached. However, at a time when the dignity of a senator of mine is limited, I need to know something from you. When Senator Candiani was speaking, I received four messages from four different people, who live in four different cities in Lombardy, who told me that Senator Candiani could not be seen. It is true that Mr Candiani is not that tall, but we could not see and see the President. Colleagues, at a time when a senator is intervening on an important issue, perhaps uncomfortable for the presidency of the Senate, and taking away the opportunity for those who are at home to attend the proceedings of the House, I need to understand. I need to understand, Mr President, why we have witnessed everything on this day and the opposite of everything. We have also suffered the President of the Council who, never coming to this House, is allowed to judge the work of this House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Mussini.]] Never come to the Chamber: you have never seen him! I still remember the episode of the famous game. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] At home my family will laugh, because she tells me that I always say the same thing. Yes, I always repeat the same thing, because when there was a debate in this House, the President-in-Office of the Council, shamefully, went into a small room to watch Italy's game: it is a shameful thing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Malan.]] Instead of moralizing senators, Mr President, you should do it to yourself. At a time when the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament is allowed to make the press release that he has made today, I send it back to the sender. At a time when undersecretary Lotti, who has the power to inform, to communicate with the government, to publish... Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Here I am! [[Undersecretary Lotti, standing in the middle of the hemicycle, raises his hand]] . Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). ...that has the delegation to the commemorations of the centenary of the First World War and to the celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the Resistance, lets say what the Senate of the Republic must do, what I send back to the sender. You've never seen him in a year and he's coming to the House today to tell us what the Senate has to do! I'll send it back to the sender! Come to the House, talk to my fellow senators, and maybe you can talk. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] So, Mr President, I would like to end by asking you why you do not insinuate your doubts about my fellow senators... MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). He's laughing too! VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. What are you laughing at, moron? FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, invite Undersecretary Lotti to sit on the government benches. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Laugh, laugh... president. Excuse me, let Senator Centinario finish. See, Senator? I am intervening and the mechanism that activates the voice automatically clicks. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). The Undersecretary should sit at the desks of the Government: he is not a senator! MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Apologize! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I ask you to be a super party: I asked for this before and... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I hope you didn't send the undersigned to that country, dear colleague, because otherwise I'll come and ask you in person! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please... Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I would ask you, Mr President, at this point to be a super partisan and also to be a super partisan on television, otherwise, on the part of the League Group, the doubt that I told Senator Razzi the other day, that North Korea is here, every day that passes becomes a certainty! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] . Senator Candiani and Undersecretary Lotti discuss animatedly at the center of the hemicycle).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u567	Senator Centinario, you also ask me to be a television director and I will try to do this too. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] You know very well that as soon as the President takes the floor, the system is such that it shifts the image to the President. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I will try not to speak and, as soon as I have finished, press the button to disable this system, but as long as I speak I cannot do so. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] However, I will try not to take away the possibility of seeing those who follow us and have the ability to do so. I worry about those who are following us right now, because I understand... [[Lively and repeated comments from Senators Airola, Scibona and Taverna.]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). We're in the protected belt!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u568	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u569	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u570	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. You have to explain to me: you say you take responsibility. Let me understand: at the moment of the secret vote you do not take responsibility and give it to the House, but at the moment of the kangaroo you take responsibility! He does one thing a moment and in the moment after he denies it. What the hell are you doing tonight, President? If there had been another person there, probably, like Senator Calderoli, he would have directed the work much better than you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The fault of how the work is going is all yours tonight! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u571	I am used to taking on my responsibilities, but I hope that everyone will take on their responsibilities for what is happening tonight and for what everyone can see.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u572	[[Live comments from Senators Moronese and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u573	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u574	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u575	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, allowing me modestly to give you some advice in the conduct of this House's work. I invite you, before opening the vote (because we have seen what happens), to ask if there are explanations of vote, to make an appeal and, in doing so, with the help of the Presidency, to look around to increase your optical vision, because we have seen that there have been complaints from the two extremes of the hemicycle. In addition, the same is done, immediately after, if there are explanations of vote in dissent. If anyone asks for a split, i.e. a split vote, for an amendment, I would advise you to ask if anyone in this House is against it and not to urge a senator or a senator in particular. I imagine you do this for the courtesy you often used when, for example, you asked someone who was distracted at that time if you were going to ask for an electronic vote. I believe this solicitation to Senator Ghedini is due to your courtesy. At this moment, however, in this House, these moments of courtesy may be better avoided and make a general appeal, if someone, in general, is opposed to unpacking. Let me, as I said before, suggest this to you with extreme modesty. Having said that, I wanted to appeal to the majority. I am not talking about the government, I am making the words of my colleague Mauro. It is clear that the majority must listen more to the screaming that is coming, not only physically, but clearly, on the part of the opposition, who demand, precisely, greater listening and that a real dialogue begins. Clearly, the work done in the Commission and here in this House, during the general debate, was not enough, for many reasons. My interpretation is that time has been short: a constitutional reform cannot take place in three or four months and it probably took longer. Moreover, these three or four months have been pressed by deadlines, which have been imposed from outside by someone who is authoritative and who, on the other hand, has perhaps only disturbed the work, both in the Commission and in this House. It is only an appeal that I do, and I do not know how it can be translated into a true listening and a true dialogue. Finally, to come back to Amendment No 1,1450, which my Group disagrees with, I will abstain, because the text convinces me, except for the point of the requirement of the age of 21 for Members. I am convinced that when we are 18 years old, when we are already older, we can easily be elected; moreover, if we do the combined text with the basic text with regard to the senators (who, as we already know, may be regional advisers rather than mayors, for whom there is no age limit), we will find ourselves in the absurd situation (at least in my opinion) of having 18-year-old senators and at least 21-year-old Members: it seems to me to be inconsistent. Perhaps at the age of 18, everyone is responsible for their actions and can also be elected and part of Parliament. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u576	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u577	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u578	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. You applied tonight the kangaroo rule that, frankly, I didn't know. And I understand, speaking with other colleagues, that not everyone is clear, so much so that before Senator Casson asked you for clarification that you did not provide. From what I understand, but if Amendment 1,1450 were rejected, a whole series of amendments, which are considered serial, would automatically be rejected. I would ask you if you could tell us which amendments would be rejected. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]] The climate is already humiliating and shameful, and no one would have imagined that a constitutional reform should take place in this climate. There is no debate, because the majority never intervenes to support the text. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Buccarella, Liuzzi and Puglia.]] Therefore, since I and other senators have tabled amendments that reduce the number of Members, not for an instrumental reason, but because we have an alternative design and proposal to the one that the Commission has presented, I would feel a little demeaned even in the work if I did not even know tonight if our amendment will be rejected for this kangaroo rule that I find really ridiculous (but it exists and therefore I adapt). I would therefore like to understand what amendments would subsequently be rejected if Amendment 1,1450 were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u579	Every time I apply the rule, I say which will be foreclosed later. Amendment 1.1450 does not imply any subsequent foreclosure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u580	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u581	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u582	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this amendment, which, like so many other amendments of this kind, has an objective, which is also the main objective of the political battle that is under way. There is an idea, which I do not appreciate and which is in the text, that the legislative body should be subordinate to the executive body. It is a dynamic already experienced in the Regions, in those Regions that have been particularly affected in recent years with respect to the functions to be exercised and in which phenomena of a clear corruptive nature have developed; they have been inflicted tens and hundreds of competences transferred by the State, without the State giving those Regions the possibility to organize their own functions, the functions that had been transferred to them. It was also a cost-based operation: the State had to get rid of costs in the performance of its duties and transferred them to the Regions, because it had to appear clean in the accounts to be presented to international bodies. Then he realized, over time, that this operation has even more devastated our economy, our institutional system and everything else. Parliament, the legislative body, must remain the exclusive and direct expression of the people and not of party secretaries. [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Puglia.]] The combined provisions of the rules governing the organisation of our institutional system, in particular the legislative function, with the proposed electoral law makes the legislative body of large representation of the Italian population clearly succubus of the Government. A government that uses these methods, a government that could use even heavier methods to manage the state, to intervene in economic and social relations, to organize the lives of citizens. That's what I'm saying, not because I'm hoping someone's gonna convince themselves. I am sure you know that you are wrong; I am sure of it! [[Applause from Senator Giarrusso.]] But you are wrong and consciously continue to make mistakes! Perhaps it will not be among you what will lead you to think that you were wrong; perhaps you will find it in front of you what will lead you to think that you were wrong. But you're wrong! Today the news has been given that, from 1 August, the Unity will no longer be in the newsstands. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]] The Unity, which is the newspaper founded by Antonio Gramsci, is no longer in newsstands! Today the news has been given and my colleague De Cristofaro is right. We do not speak of authoritarian drifts, those will come regardless of your will, for what you write and for what you vote. I repeat, those will come. They will come when the economic crisis will lead to social confrontation. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] They will come when you will not be able to curb the difficulties of this country with propaganda. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] They will come when you realize that the accounts on the financial cover you have proposed to date are all false. They're coming! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] And they will come with the law of stability. And they will come with the workers deprived of their reason for existence, bent by suffering. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo Uras! URAS (Misto-SEL). They'll come. And you will propose this solution. Deleted in social life, in work, in the perspective of a serene existence; deleted also in the right to say one's opinion and to be represented. You are wrong and we, until now, have gone crazy to defend you too, you who govern thanks to our 3%! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] You who govern with 340 Members, thanks to our 3%. Otherwise they would rule, I repeat, they would rule. AIROLA (M5S). Uras, come this way! URAS (Misto-SEL). I say this for some party representatives: I took part in the elections in Sardinia a few months ago and the leaders of your party came to say: do you see how we did it in Sardinia? But in Sardinia the alliance with Berlusconi and Alfano is not there. In Sardinia we won the elections with a democratically organized coalition. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We keep our commitment. We will maintain our commitment, which is not to do obstructionism; but to carry on our dignified political battle, which - we know - we lose at first reading in the Senate today. But if anyone thinks that it binds us to the social battles that will have to be waged in this country, if you forget it, because we have been and will be, as long as we live, alongside the workers and their rights. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u583	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u584	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u585	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I would say that the spectacle is certainly not upbuilding. The reconstructions you have made tonight may well be worth a different reading. If the cultural figure is that of twitter and text messages, this is what can happen in a House of Parliament. The fundamental fact that I would like to stress is that Parliament, and this House in particular, has been deprived of its powers for a long time, and we are basically at the yoke of the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Perhaps, given that the culture that is often expressed is only made of news, it would be advisable to retrace some history. I would like to remind you that the constituent Assembly which allowed us to be in this House and which drafted our Constitution took from the first months of 1946 to the end of 1947, 270 sessions and 170 days of work. Throughout this process, the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, forgot to say a small detail, namely that there was never, Mr President, a speech by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] We must also remember the story that I believe is important, especially for some arrogant who thinks to give us lessons and that someone has invented himself to lead this country without passing through any vote of the country, without having been elected by any vote of the country [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] ; someone who, having passed from the secretariats of the parties and doing politics for twenty years, wants to come and give civilization lessons to us [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, GAL and Mixed-SEL]] when we remember that we are going back 300 years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut. Comments from the PD Group.]] In fact, Mr President, it took two revolutions to write the Constitutions, two revolutions that establish a very simple thing, that is, that we passed from the king who made the laws to the laws that established who the king was. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and LAG groups.]] Since this is history, this is no longer the Parliament that has its legislative authority; this has now become the Parliament of the President of the Council. Therefore, since I remember exactly what the steps have been so far, I am still waiting for that meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which has not yet given an answer on why a senator from this branch of Parliament has been expelled from that particular Commission. I ask you again because of what that arrogant man who leads the country today has allowed himself to say. If he had done so, as he did, with reference to the party of which he is secretary, no question, but when he publicly boasts that he has decided to have Senator Mario Mauro expelled from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then perhaps the democratic systems of this country have completely blown up. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC]] You are also the President of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but still today we do not have an answer to what happened, and I do not want all the arguments that are being made in this House today to be postponed until the end of the day without understanding what the rules are that animate the parliamentary life of this House. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, GAL and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Liuzzi. A lively exchange of jokes between Senator Di Maggio and State Secretary Olivero, who is approaching his desk.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u586	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u587	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u588	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I do not know if it is clear to everyone, but we have been witnessing insults for an hour: a minute ago the President of the Council was insulted, a few minutes ago a Undersecretary was insulted from the benches of the League, you were insulted, each of us is insulted when he takes the floor. Mr President, we want to vote, we want to work to change the Constitution and make reform. It is not acceptable for this House to witness an endless and continuous follow-up of insults. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You gave us servants, Zanda! ZANDA (PD). There is no civilization in this debate. This is a debate which no longer has as its object the reform of the Constitution but which only serves to insult one another. Mr President, please let us vote. [[Comments from Senators Palma and Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u589	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u590	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u591	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote and take some consideration, as everyone else has done, given that the Forza Italia Group has used little or no time at its disposal. My explanation of vote is against this amendment, because in principle I am opposed to any reduction in parliamentary representation. However, I have an important thought: I notice excessive nervousness, aggressiveness often unmotivated, and we move on to interventions and serious problems, also posed by people who could be from me light years politically. The interventions of Senators De Cristofaro and Uras should be read well, should be interventions of everyone. These are interventions that the Government should also take on, a Government that - this is the reality - has entered into tense constitutional reforms, an abnormal thing in the history of the Italian Republic, but this has happened. [[Bursio in the Chamber]] I'd beg my colleagues to shut up. Please! I used to attend very serious speeches, by De Cristofaro and Uras, and there were those who laughed while talking about the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut).]] All full of responsibility, all good, all ready to make reforms: words! When it comes to serious problems, no one cares. Some people laugh. The sense of responsibility is to respect the opinions of everyone, to listen to them and, if necessary, if they are right, to make them their own. This has happened and this is happening, President. We all said that what is happening is a show, a show that someone is seeing. No one is immune from responsibility, no majorities, no oppositions, but it continues unceasingly, it seems a game of the parties. Nobody has a particular moment of sensitivity; no one is above all because of the senators' own role; but there is little interest in it at all, Mr President, there is nothing to be done! This House should be closed because it is a deaf House compared to the problems that exist, so much so that, as far as I am concerned, instead of this reform that I personally do not like - as I have already said in other speeches - I really think it is more serious to abolish the Senate. And if the Senate remains this, what you and I see now, I don't know why it should stay, because the problem is not only more or more or less because there is a country on its knees, but, as you can see, there is nothing to do. President, I understand. There's nothing to do. Problem is personal chatter. The country's problems don't exist. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] The problem of this reform, as Senator De Cristofaro said, is serious and serious, because the troubles arise after, not before. But really with such lightness do we close what someone called the Upper Chamber, with such serenity, we reduce it to nothing? But are we so quiet? But don't you feel anything inside you? Don't you feel responsible to whom democracy in this country has built it? Not us. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Minzolini]] There isn't a moment when you think: are we wrong? This government is deaf to one thing: to an elective Senate. Nobody asked for 300, 400 or 200 people, the numbers are those. A sacred principle therefore seemed to be an insurmountable mountain. I think it's more of a backlash, a point, not a political argument. Honestly, if it were for me, we could have changed the Regulations and implementing regulations within the Ministries. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] No, you don't. We are all responsible and we are all in this situation, and we are not excluded. I don't insult anyone, I don't do the first of the class and I couldn't do it, but I invite others not to do it, because it's not enough to overcome the obstacle, to keep majorities going. In fact, where is the country? What Uras said will happen in a few months. Is it possible, then, that in a few months' time we will have to deal with this with a divided Parliament, such a small Parliament? How are we going to deal with the country's problems? When there were real emergencies in this country they were overcome and this is because two great forces knew how to meet for the common interests of the entire country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Under these conditions will we be able to do so? Is that a question for you? The government raises it or there is a problem of 3, 4 or 5 percent more. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Let's remember that at this moment in Italy you get up very quickly, but you get down just as quickly if you don't create a real balance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the point, this is the appeal I make as an Italian senator, not of Forza Italia, because, for once, we must feel senators of the Italian people and this nation! Maybe we'll do right and hope for me and all of us. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u592	I call on Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,1450. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,1451, identical to Amendment No 1,1452.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u593	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u594	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u595	ENDRIZZI (M5S). There would be little to explain the amendment. It's so obvious and we should Shame on you. In Africa they say: it is not necessary to point the elephant with the finger, but today it is necessary to do so because the evidence has been interpreted and changed. The words have been revolted, denied and denied. The shorthand has even been contested. The video will also be contested. Mr President, if you had not at least sided with these manipulations, perhaps I would not have spoken on the amendment. What happened reminds a fairy tale of Fedro 'The wolf and the lamb, where the lamb, being right, did not have it because the wolf absolutely had to get to eat it. You know the fairy tale, I spared it to you in the Commission, but since you said to withdraw all the amendments and bring them back to the House, I also bring you the fairy tale because you need it. You need to know that the lamb drank downstream and that the wolf drank upstream. Someone told you today about populism from above. Well, this is happening: it is happening that where you cannot be right, like the wolf, you take it. The wolf challenged the lamb to pollute the water. The lamb replied to him that by drinking downstream he received the water coming from his mouth. The wolf then said to him, "Oh, but you did it in the past," and the lamb replied: But how in the past? I'm a lamb, I'm young, when ever? At that point the wolf said: If it wasn't you, it would have been your father. Then the wolf ate the lamb. So here we have a situation that shows us the lie and arrogance of a President-in-Office of the Council who says... [[Laughter from the PD Group. Senator Endrizzi remains briefly silent.]] My silence is a complaint to those who are laughing right now. You don't even understand fairy tales! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have a President-in-Office of the Council who said he wanted to reform to reduce the costs of politics, to cut the seats. Well, the amendment we are debating is that the number of Members is 250. The number of senators has been reduced, we reduce the number of Members. What's that for? Does it serve to maintain a numerical balance between the Chambers, when they elect the President of the Republic, the guarantee bodies, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, and also to reduce the costs of politics? No, it's not like that, as it wasn't true that the lamb polluted the wolf's water. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And then I ask myself: why is Renzi imposing a reform on us and in this way rejecting what Senator Casson, in an interview that I invite you to read, called reasonable and modest proposals? It is not explained all this, except with the will to exercise in an arrogant way a power that legitimizes his image as a strong man. I remember another fairy tale then. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Yes, gentlemen, listen to this, too, because you need it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u596	Silence, let me speak, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u597	AIROLA (M5S). Go to sleep! ENDRIZZI (M5S). It's the frog and the ox. I'll tell you in Latin: frog et bos. So, the frog is Matteo Renzi and the ox we can say it's Merkel. Renzi absolutely wanted to be equal to the ox and to be like the ox swelled, swelled. Am I as big as you? Am I as big as you?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u598	Senator Endrizzi, I'm sorry, I don't want to take the video shot off your hands by intervening, but the personal references to foreign heads of state can also leave them alone in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u599	No, Mr President, this is very serious, because we already have a series of signals from Europe that the credibility that Renzi built during the European election campaign with an artifice is already a castle of cards that collapses and we have another credibility, the one that was built in Italy, with the image of the man who fixes things, Mr Uras just said. In autumn we will discover the cards and we will know the truth about the missing covers, the safeguard clauses, we will discover the truth about the additional maneuver that will have to be done and we will discover the cards with the law of stability and with the next DEF. And after a warm autumn, a cold winter and a flowerless spring, then we'll find out the truth. And I'll tell you how the fairy tale ends. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u600	Quiet, let me finish. Please, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u601	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm telling you in Italian, you wouldn't understand. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u602	Senator Endrizzi, I begged you to finish. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The frog died with the body burst. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1451, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators, identical to amendment 1,1452, tabled by Senator Campanella. I beg the senators to come to their desks and vote from their seats without having others voted. [[Comments from Senators Marton and Crimes. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u603	We now have a request made by Senator Petrocelli pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. Senator Petrocelli, do you intend to illustrate her?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u604	Yes, Mr President, thank you. I submitted a written request, as you requested last week. What is happening in Libya makes urgent the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to report to this House on the role of the Government and ENI as it is happening in that country. It is a fact for which the President of the Council Renzi himself, in a quick message on twitter a few days ago, declared himself extremely concerned. The President-in-Office of the Council said: I'm not worried about the owls, the reforms, the accounts. Libya does. But it seems impossible to talk seriously about foreign policy #piccinerie". Now, with the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, I urgently ask that tomorrow morning the Minister for Foreign Affairs should come and tell this House what the Italian Government is doing and what ENI is doing, which the President of the Council himself, a few months ago, said to be a sort of government agency abroad. I repeat, what they are doing, and how they are working, how they are moving and what role they have in what they are entering Libya, with prayer, President, that this time we do not repeat what happened last time with Vice President Fedeli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u605	It seems to me that we are before the time of the sitting, so I anticipated your request. No more than one speaker per Group is expected to speak on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u606	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u607	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u608	TONINI (PD). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The situation in Libya is extremely dramatic and I therefore believe that a confrontation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who, moreover, held a wide debate in the House today... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, I see someone moving away, but I do remember that there is a vote per show of hands on this request. SANTANGELO (M5S). They're leaving. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry to interrupt you, Senator Tonini TONINI (PD). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The subject is absolutely urgent. I believe that the Minister is available, as far as we know, for Friday. We call for a comparison in the Commission, which I believe is the best forum for further study, which must be done, for such a dramatic and complex affair.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u609	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u610	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u611	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I agree with the request made to devote a moment of reflection in this House to the events in Libya. About fifteen days ago, I asked for a similar debate - which I know I have held in the House - on the events taking place in Gaza. With regard to Gaza, I have supported the same thing that I support for Libya today. It is quite acceptable what Senator Tonini proposes, and it is perfectly legitimate to discuss it in the Commission, perhaps in the Joint Commissions, and not in this House. But I insist. It was true for Gaza, it is even more true for Libya, also because, precisely, I read that the President of the Council says that he does not deal with the events of the Senate and instead deals mainly with that situation and does well because it is a great issue that today crosses the whole Mediterranean. In Libya there is the dissolution of the national state, 1,700 tribes fight against each other. A total disaster that occurred in that land also due to some totally wrong strategic choices made over the course of these years. And then the catastrophes we've seen over the course of these hours. Perhaps it would also be necessary for the national Parliament to take a more in-depth look at the great events that have taken place throughout the world, for example, at the nature of the Arab Springs that have taken place over the past few years. In short, a great deal of political reflection would be needed. Of course it can be done in the Commission, but I think it would be a lot more serious if it were to take place in this House, and that was all it was to do - because we are in Europe and we are in charge of the European Semester - as is done in other national parliaments. In the other countries of Europe when events such as these happen, obviously bring together the parliamentary classrooms, block the political debate and, rightly, make those moments - perhaps even with live television - great moments of discussion that affect the whole country. In our country, however, there is this difficulty to emphasize issues such as these that are the most serious of all because they concern the great balances of the world today, at the time of the obvious crisis of the paths of globalization, especially in the South of Europe and in the Mediterranean area. Well, I think it would be very serious if this Parliament were to attach all the dignity it can to a debate like this. Of course it can be done in the Commission, but - I insist - it would be much more serious if we did it in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u612	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u613	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u614	CASINI (PI). Mr President, the request from my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group, I believe, is shared by everyone. The Commission is available if it was decided to carry out joint committees. If we find in the timetable the way in which it is included in the work of this House, we all agree, of course, because I think there are no divisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u615	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u616	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u617	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the exceptional nature of the international crises that pass through Libya, but certainly also the new Caliphate that extends between Syria and Iraq, the Ukrainian crisis and what is taking place in Gaza, I think we must, however, listen to the Foreign Minister Mogherini. I don't know the availability, but it seems to me that Senator Tonini has already established it. So we also support the request for a hearing with the Foreign Affairs Committee, possibly in conjunction with the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u618	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u619	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u620	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, the Senators of the New Centro-Rextra Group also see the opportunity that has been pointed out by their colleagues. As Senator De Cristofaro said, a debate has already taken place in the Chamber of Deputies, despite the request from the Senate, on the issues relating to Gaza and, in part, on the related issues of the Caliphate and Syria to which Senator Romani was now referring. On the basis of the dates announced by Senator Tonini, thankful to President Casini for his willingness, we refer back to the Presidency's assessments of the opportunity to hold this debate in the Commission or in the Chamber, as well as the opportunity to report back to the President of the Council or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Consider the Presidency as the most appropriate date, taking into account the indications advanced by Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u621	I would like to point out that the request, as explained by Senator Petrocelli, provides for information to be made in this House. We shall therefore, if necessary, vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u622	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u623	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u624	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are in complete agreement and in line with the request made by the leader of the Five Star Petrocelli Movement. It is good that this debate is taking place in this House because this issue should not be confined to an important body such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but all Members should be involved in it. We know from the agencies what is happening and we are concerned because the only and last diplomat to stay in Libya is our ambassador. Everyone has withdrawn their diplomatic delegations, so beyond the economic and energy interests of Italy, we should at least maintain the safety of our diplomatic corps. In recent years, this House has debated the opportunity to bring down a dictator. In the eyes of the world it seemed like the worst thing you could have. It was the state that had the highest per capita income in African countries. However, on a big French and American push, not free from underlying economic interests, Italy has settled in the operation of the killing of the great dictator. I do not know how many African states could remain such and what they are if we were to go and review the level of democracy or authoritarianism that is exercised within those states. It seems to me that America even mourns an ambassador, who has been the victim of an attack in the recent past. To colleagues who may have already forgotten, we can remind them that we are still paying the war damages to Libya, if I may, for a great intuition of former President Berlusconi who managed to settle a great and fierce dispute against us Italians thinking of compensation for the damage that caused our country during the last war. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] His great intuition was that the famous 5 billion, which we have signed to return to Libya, would not be in sonant currency, but in public works that Italy would have entrusted itself to carry out at the request of the Libyan Government: and rgo, an Italian order, essentially exercised abroad by Italian companies, with Italian profits that would return home and, in addition, coated over twenty years, without therefore burdening heavily on the budgets of the State. We share the request of the leader of the Five Star Movement, Petrocelli, but we still have a big doubt. Do you really need to listen to Minister Mogherini? In fact, when she was assigned to direct the Department of Foreign Affairs, unable to express any personal assessment of the figure, the person, certainly very worthy and respectable, we already at the time objected that we did not send a person taken by the national leadership of the Democratic Party to do apprenticeship to the Farnesina because the troubles they combine could be endless. Let's hear it, but we think it has little to say, if not read some speech that the offices of the Dicastery can prepare for you tonight. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u625	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u626	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u627	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, my proposal is merely a proposal to supplement what is required in the sense that, given our special condition and our equally special relationship with Libya and not forgetting that we are still training part of their military - and I commend the presence and availability always expressed by my colleague, Mr Pinotti - I would consider it appropriate for the Minister of Defence to accompany the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this communication to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u628	In the meantime, we shall vote on the request as it has been made. I therefore put to the vote the request, made by Senator Petrocelli, to include in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Libya. It's not approved. I would remind you that President Casini's willingness is there, if necessary, to assist the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Commission. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We therefore hope that President Casini will be able to arrange for the hearing. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u629	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. [[Applause from the M5S Group at the Forums. Comments by Senator Esposito Stefano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-294.ana.u630	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, July 30, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.54 p.m.
