ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) on issues relating to the management of cultural heritage, with particular regard to museums and archaeological areas and measures to promote the entertainment sector, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray, will respond. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. So let us turn to questions on issues relating to the management of cultural heritage with particular regard to museums and archaeological areas. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism for two minutes each. The Minister will then respond for ten minutes. I recommend respect for the times, precisely because of the presence of live television.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to greet the Minister. I begin by recalling the positive approval of Decree Law No 91 of 2013 (the so-called decree value culture), which is undoubtedly a sign of change in government activity and the centrality of culture, and I come to the issues on the agenda. We have two great opportunities on archaeology, Minister. One is Pompeii's. We appreciated the project and the appointment of the Director-General. Instead, he left some perplexity, given the important applications, the choice of an outsider with partial and limited experience (eight months as supervisor in Basilicata) for the ordinary management of the Superintendence of Pompeii. We wonder what the ratio was, and whether it is a ratio destined to be extended over time and in other situations. One hundred and fifty million euros to spend in Pompeii represent a great opportunity, which the Ministry obviously has to enhance in the planned times. They are Italian and Community funds, and we expect a great deal about that. The other chance is Sibari's. In Sibari there are 40 million euros, and here again we ask how the Ministry intends to manage the complexity of funds, equal, I repeat, to 40 million euros, and how it intends to manage this great opportunity. On the museum poles, that of the valorization of their autonomy is an important and not to be missed. There is a reorganization going on and, in my opinion, the one envisaged by the spending review, Minister, must be understood in an appropriate and limited way to simplification. I have some doubts that this may be the occasion for a structural reform of the Ministry, which, from my point of view, requires a confrontation with Parliament, with the social forces, with universities and with the world of national culture, which can express its opinion on this. On this, therefore, I was calling for the definition of this reform which will shortly be implemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u9	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I too salute Mr Bray. Museums today represent a true centre of creativity, able to activate a wide network of workers and visitors all over the world, key categories of the international success of many European and non-European cities. Almost 50 percent of the Italian territory is protected as natural beauty, historical-artistic and architectural, with 424 historical museums, art galleries and archaeological sites, 12 million square meters of archaeological parks, 46 national libraries and 24 million printed volumes, manuscripts, five hundred and periodic. All this against - alas - the small number of visitors that Italian public museums state - although declined at local, provincial and regional level - record. Well, what I am asking you, Minister, is why none of the Italian museums or archaeological sites are among the first twenty in the world by number of visitors and what measures the Ministry intends to take to compete with these institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u12	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I too wish the Minister well. Our country boasts a historical, cultural and artistic richness known all over the world. In Italy 49 sites are listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This priceless heritage inexorably pours into a state of abandonment and oblivion. Some of these sites - I think of the center of invaluable historical and cultural value of Pompeii or the complex of Tivoli, with the fabulous Villa Adriana - can not only be cured, as if they were terminally ill, but should be protected and protected, precisely, as a single patrimony of humanity. In view of the considerable cuts in cultural heritage, how can we raise funds for the re-launching of the cultural sector, which is the real clean energy of our country? Compared to the management of museums and archaeological areas, I would like to mention only two ISTAT data. 43 percent of our museums do not cooperate with any cultural institution, while about 60 percent of staff working at excavations and museums are unable to give directions in a language other than Italian. We are faced with a problem of synergies, because investing in culture means investing in school as preparation, in university for deepening and in research for professionalization. It is in a whole of learning, conservation and protection that the social and civil life of our country is implemented. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is the policy that the Ministry intends to adopt in order to protect, recover, promote and optimise the potential of these goods, also from an economic and tourist point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u15	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up the arguments raised by President Marcucci in an intelligent and appropriate manner, who reminded us of the debate we have had in this House on his measure. The feeling, already after several months from the Senate's green light, is that the government action is bogged down on concerns of the kind expressed by my colleague Marcucci and that I too - beyond the inelegance of quoting myself - had already argued in the course of the discussion of that measure, and had been partly transposed by the rapporteur, my friend Marcucci. I wonder why, Minister - and I asked you this at the time - instead of strengthening the structures of a special superintendence which already exists and which has autonomy and special prerogatives - by clearly strengthening them with the possibility of using administrative, legal and technical experts, as recommended by UNESCO inspectors themselves, has insisted on his part in wanting a parallel structure and a mechanism which I feared was daunting and which today we must all have the intellectual honesty to consider paralyzed. One cannot, thinking of having the right to the decree-law, then resort to the sovereign right to two external appointments, one of which is of great prestige, a university colleague who honors the Italian university and the archaeological culture, but for which happened what was predictable from his point of view (to his ministry they know well the precedents that were on a case Sgarbi, if I am not mistaken at the time of the minister Urbani, but Senator Marcucci will possibly correct me). And all this led to paralysis in ping-pong with the Court of Auditors. Secondly, we have the same Director-General, a very worthy person, who has not yet left his office. We have, therefore, a completely paralysed mechanism in relation to the time when the decree-law was passed: hence my concerns.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u18	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, the lack of valorisation and maintenance with the consequent progressive degradation of our artistic heritage is the symptom of a much more general problem in our country, which concerns the lack of protection of our cultural heritage and the inability to promote the necessary managerial skills for proper management of the same. Today art and culture represent distinctive and competitive assets fundamental for Made in Italy. The network of cultural assets, for example, constituted in Italy by 3,800 museums and 1,800 archaeological areas, is able to create an induced (tourism, food and wine, artisan productions, redevelopment building) that produces an added value of 167 billion euros and absorbs about 3,8 million employed in Italy; not to mention that in recent years it has been the sector that has recorded a greater increase. However, museums and monuments, often permanently in deficit, are only profitable for private companies concessionaries of additional services, and the Court of Auditors has pointed out this on several occasions. Since 31 December 2009, almost all additional service contracts have expired and are extended against any national and European competition rules. For example, days ago, at the broadcast "Ambiente Italia" on RAI 3 the envoy asked the architect who, in fact, responded on his behalf, Minister, because conventions such as the one with Diego Della Valle were not online on the website of MIBACT. The lady replied: "Sa, when a private person is involved, a certain reserve is required." In our opinion, when there is a good of the Italian State, there should be no reserve, because it is everyone's right to know how things are. What we are asking the Minister at the moment is because still today the guidelines, which should serve to normalize the procurement of lucrative museum services, have not yet been issued by his Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u21	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I greet the Minister. Mr. Minister, we do not like to play the role of Cassandra, but the strong concerns we expressed during the Cultural Decree we find them all in front of the proceedings of the Ministry of these last weeks. It is true that the Italian cultural heritage needs to be catalogued and digitized (an immense resource, made of well-known and less known places: an immense work), but perhaps the solution identified is not exactly the right one, and finds us very perplexed. The call for applications was published on 24 January. The access requirements are: age under thirty-five, degree with 110 out of 110, an advanced level of English. The expected remuneration is about 3.50 euros per hour. For many this ban was seen almost as a national lottery, because everyone expected a long-term employment opportunity from this occasion. We ask, then, to know how the Minister intends to intervene in order to put an end to this institutionalized precariousness carried out by the Ministry. We are also curious to know how an extraordinary program of inventory and digitization of cultural heritage, in order to facilitate the access and use of public cultural heritage, as provided for in the decree, then, at the time of its definition, with respect to the work that the 500 young people should do, has foreseen that, in reality, the collections museums, archivals and bookshops are only one sixth of the work that is to be done. In short, Minister, we are very concerned about creating high expectations for the world of culture and work which will then fail to find an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u24	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I greet and thank the Minister. I note positively the attention this Government is giving to the cultural and artistic sector in general. I want to highlight here a problem that I have raised several times and that is the result of the linear cuts of the former Monti Government, which had subordinated the granting of funds for the performance at national level to the fact that they were not recognized to the directors of the same agencies compensation or compensation of office. I note that very often these bodies (one of them is in the province of Trento) present budgets of some million euros, that their activity and their management are often of a complex nature and that, among other things, the directors are called to respond to it in the first person, I ask the Minister if he does not think it appropriate to remedy a clear discrimination between those who administer companies in the various fields of the public administration and those who manage cultural institutions, introducing the possibility of providing compensation, even if minimal or regulated in such a way as not to exceed certain figures, also considering the fact that such compensation would still be covered by the budget of the institution and would not have to weigh on the funds allocated by the State. This also means that people who do not have the necessary skills and do not believe that people of poor professionalism are enough to manage these bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u27	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I too greet the Minister, even though he has some points to make regarding the Grand Pompei Project, implemented by the Letta Government, but which is actually ascribed to the Berlusconi Government, which promoted the Decree-Law of 31 March 2011, n. 34, which - you will recall - was approved after the collapse of the Schola armorum. Much else collapses today, but luckily she belongs to a side that enjoys vast immunity: I remember Bondi went home for much less. That decree provided for an investment of more than EUR 10 million from Community funds. Now you, using the proxy, have presented the decree Bray, which a certain press ampollamente calls decree culture, dating back to 3 December last year, and has established the special Superintendence of Pompeii. The fact is that, Madam President and Minister, about ten years ago, an ad hoc law gave Pompeii's Superintendentship the status of Autonomous Superintendence, which was introduced that change that allowed to flow new resources directly to Pompeii, also ensuring the possibility of an autonomous economic and financial management, regarding the way to use the ticket office's revenue and any other income that that that cultural deposit, perhaps the most famous in the world for Italy, could obtain. In his decree we return to establish an extraordinary and no longer autonomous Superintendence. 400 people work on that site. If you do not give autonomy, a real economic and financial autonomy for management with managerial criteria, you will not change anything only by changing the adjective from "autonomous" to "extraordinary."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u30	GIANNI (SPI). Madam President, Minister, our Group also welcomes the recent approval of the cultural value decree and highlights a first step towards investment in a neglected sector of the country, not only in recent years. However, our theme is related to the management of this huge heritage, whose numbers have been evoked by colleagues and on which I do not return, with particular regard to an aspect that seems or may seem ancillary, but which can instead make a full appreciation and ensure better use by the public (which we hope can increase, even quantitatively, with appropriate strategies) in terms of quality. It is therefore a question of understanding how and if the Ministry (and you in your person with the initiatives you want to undertake) will be able to act effectively on the poor presence, in archaeological sites, in museums and in all those that can be considered public institutes of culture, that to date have very few activities of catering, of café, bookshop, of all that integrated part to the enjoyment of the cultural good, intervening with a measure that can unlock an unfortunate situation that has been realized in recent years. In particular, this integrated management - I would call it this - of the additional services, with four-year duration starting from a decree of 2008, which since 2011 have not been renewed with specific notices, is currently being extended, by way of derogation from that same measure. Given that the part of the services - of course the hierarchical role is different from that of the heritage itself - can it really modernise and make the valorization of cultural goods more effective, we wonder whether you, Minister, would like to take initiatives in this regard and, if so, what kind of action. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u31	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I thank you for your attention to cultural heritage with your requests. I will try to answer the greatest number of these questions of yours in the time available to me. I would like to start just from Pompeii because it seems to me that the attention is rightly dedicated to what is one of the most important archaeological parks in the world, as well as one of the places on which the Government, with the decree-law value culture, as has been recalled, paid particular attention. I would like to say at once that, from the indication - by the President of the Council of Ministers and myself - of the General Division of the Carabinieri Giovanni Nistri as Director-General of the project and the Deputy Director-General of Vicar Fabrizio Magani, as provided for by Law No 112 of 7 October 2013, we immediately started the implementation phase of the measure. In this sense we have given life to the constitution of the Special Superintendences for the archaeological goods of Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabia; we have formalized the appointment of the two leaders; we have immediately prepared the notice for the contingent of personnel, even managerial, in command position that, as you know, must not exceed 20 units, coming from the roles of the personnel of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and of tourism or from other state administrations. The Director-General of the project has also proposed to the President of the Council the names of the five experts in legal, economic, architectural, urban and infrastructural matters that will accompany him in the work, and the ministerial decree is being adopted that will regulate the operation of the structure, in particular the delicate phase of transition between the old and the new contracting station. I would also like to say that since the end of December (on 23 December) we have started a series of coordination meetings, which I chaired, in which we approved the timetable in order to arrive, as quickly as possible, at the full operation of the structure. We have done this by providing for parallel work - which is a great innovation - to try to respect, as has rightly been mentioned, the commitment to Europe. Finally, on 28 January, two days ago, we held the first Steering Committee in Pompei, following the definition of the new governance structure, to which the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General attended, with the participation, provided for by the relevant interministerial decree, of the representatives of my Ministry and those of the Ministries of Interior and Territorial Cohesion, in the presence of the leaders of the European Commission. The careful examination of the progress of the different projects, which I will make public as soon as possible, will allow all of us to know the progress of the works and compare it with the schedule that we have prepared. On the other hand, I believe rightly that the choices that led to the definition of the procedure for identifying Pompeii's superintendent have been recalled. The procedure was initiated by the Director General for the Antiquities who received six applications; these were carefully examined, evaluating the curricula and taking into account the fact that the area of Pompeii has been the center of great attention from scholars around the world for years and that one of the proposals most considered is to extend the attention on Pompeii to the whole world of the university, making Pompeii a real research campus in the world of archaeology. I believe that this was also the reason why the Director-General for Antiquities proposed to me among the six applications the professional profile most suited to the research needs of what must be done within the park. The choice has fallen on Professor Osanna, who, as has been said, has played the role of superintendent in my Ministry in Basilicata but who also boasts a particularly rich curriculum precisely regarding archaeological studies on the world of Pompeii. It is therefore clear to me that the choice can justify the use of external professionalism, not because the Ministry does not have excellent archaeologists on which to rely, but because in the case of Pompeii it is not enough only a technical competence and an ordinary administrative competence but requires special qualities and a curriculum with diversified experiences, as well as a particular attention to the world of studies, within our country and also international. I would then like to take up what has been underlined as a reorganization project of the Ministry. This project stems first of all from the need to implement the expenditure review measures, the so-called spending review resulting from Law No 95 of 2012; this stems from the need to pool administrative competences in the field of tourism (remember) recently transferred from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to MIBACT. These are the two main requirements. We therefore considered that the ministerial apparatus should be re-examined in its entirety and that a reform intervention should be considered with the aim, first and foremost, of rationalising the administration of cultural heritage. What we are trying to do is not only to rationalise the work of the offices but above all to respond to the needs of the contemporary with which we are confronted. A model of organization will be provided by what I have called the Coordination and Planning Office; it will serve to keep under coordination all the different requests that come to the Ministry and, above all, all the response actions that the Ministry must carry out, with a methodology based on work for projects, for responsibility and verification of the implementation of specific programmes and projects. The new office will be able to ensure effective conversion into specific projects of the general strategies formulated within the Ministry by the individual directorates. Another novelty I wanted to introduce is that of a Directorate-General for Innovation and the Exploitation of Cultural Heritage. I believe that another of the challenges we face is the necessary form of introducing innovation-related practices, procedures and activities, capable, yes, of enhancing our cultural heritage. I know that we have long wanted to discuss, rightly, the distinctions that will be made within our peripheral structures. I would like to point out that there is nothing else but clarification of responsibilities between regional directorates, Superintendence, museums and special centres. This, in order to avoid long delays, which, in my opinion, are due precisely to the duplication of some activities. In this sense, the Superintendences in particular will focus their attention on what is called technical-scientific autonomy, aimed at the protection and enhancement of heritage and research, because - as has rightly been said - agreements and proximity with universities will be increasingly necessary. On the other hand, the regional directorates will retain all current powers in the field of landscapes, perform the functions of horizontal service for the Superintendences and act as a contracting station for all Superintendences, excluding the museum poles. They will also be the interface with all territorial autonomy for what will be the activities related to tourism. I have rightly been asked what our decisions will be in relation to the guidelines. I want to say immediately that I signed the guidelines after receiving the opinion of the Authority for the supervision of public contracts and after the Directorate-General for Development had completed the necessary and mandatory listening by all the operators in the sector. In-depth work has been done to carefully define all those policies that would be aimed at enhancing our heritage, paying attention to avoiding, as has happened in the past, the many contentious insurgents, which have made it much more difficult to assign these responsibilities. You approve the guidelines, shortly... president. Mr Minister, you should conclude by giving a quick summary of the rest of your speech, because we have a very busy time. Mr BRAY, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. I would just like to add one comment - because it is a subject that often occurs - on the reasons why our cultural places receive less visitors than what is happening in the rest of the world. I would like to say that our museum network, including archaeological areas, consists of 4,588 sites and 400 museums. I want to remember that it is difficult to compare with other museums in the world, as has been said, because those are museums born in a generalist way, while our collections are often born in a specialist way. I think of the Uffizi - as it has been recalled - a collection that is born on the Renaissance and that should therefore be compared, for example, with the rooms of the Louvre dedicated to this theme. I would also like to remind you that, if the Louvre has 8,9 million visitors, while those of the Uffizi are 1,8 million, we should compare this data with the numbers of the inhabitants of Paris and the tourists who go to that city, compared to those who go to Florence. I believe that, in this confrontation, our museum does not defy at all. I also want to say - and I conclude - that in Rome the Colosseum in 2012 recorded more than 5,200,000 visitors, an increase of 8.14 percent, and that this places it among the first twenty historical-artistic poles in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u34	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, I thank the Minister for the punctuality of his reply. I simply renew your confidence on the part of the 7th Commission, Minister, in relation to the comparison and verification of the choices you are making, convinced that, with your government action, a turning point has been reached in the interest and enhancement of cultural heritage. In renewing this will and willingness, I also stress that these choices, so important for the future of our country, must have a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u37	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am partially satisfied with the Minister's reply, for various reasons. I would like to give you further thought, Minister. I think it is appropriate, on the part of the Ministry, to put in place all the resources and the planning energies so that the Italy system, from the historical, artistic and architectural point of view, is made a single product able to attract attention and therefore have appeal towards further visitors. By paradox, Minister, I simply invite you to pay attention to what potentially the Pantheon, which is here a few hundred meters from Palazzo Madama, could represent in numerical terms where we better organize its use; it is, in fact, a monument subjected daily to a human impact that also does not have a consideration in economic terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u40	SERRA (M5S). Mr. Minister, your answers are timely and deeply comforting. We trust that this attention to the choices and analyses indicated will be effectively and pragmatically activated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u43	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, Minister, I too am partially satisfied or, worse, satisfied in critical matters in two respects. What I asked you was whether, since we are almost in February, it was worth it, beyond the very good intentions of those who proposed it (the Director General), to submit the name of the new superintendent, a name of great prestige, to this defiant ping-pong with the Court of Auditors. The second reason for my dissatisfaction is that which you have anticipated by taking up a subject raised by Mr Marcucci. We know very well that the reorganization of the Ministry is dictated by the need to contain public expenditure; we do not know anything about it, except for some anticipation of a Commission, but my feeling is that you talk about the exploitation of the technical and administrative moment, but then you work here, always merging and widening to an immense administrative direction, that is, the so-called moments of coordination and control. I wonder if it's worth it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u46	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I thank the Minister for his reply, although it was very fast, but the important thing was to have the content. We are satisfied because, since it tells us that it signed, it means that we are going in the right direction, which is what we wanted. As a League we consider this relationship between public and private important, which however allows the public to make a qualitative leap and to have an extra march. However, we also consider it essential that this should be standardized. We like that through the so-called decree value culture and the motion Lanzillotta to the Senate could talk seriously about culture. You know how much I care about the tourism sector: I therefore hope that when the decree-law on tourism arrives, in addition to the important debate on the decree on culture, we can give the necessary gasoline to restart both tourism and culture. They are in fact two sectors that should be driving to restart the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u49	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we are totally dissatisfied, because we have not received a reply, not even a word. We note that it is clearly not on the agenda of this Government to talk about the future of young graduates who would like to put skills, professionalism and passion in the world of culture, and for whom the only prospect that the Government can offer is a contract of precariousness of twelve months to 5,000 euros a year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I believe that, as far as the answer is concerned, time has been tyrant. The Minister will probably be able to fill this gap in some other form. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But there are problems with nominations to answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u52	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would ask you to review the timing of the answers, because I too cannot say that I am satisfied, having had no answer to my questions at all. And I'm sorry, because this reinforces the perception that cultural and entertainment organizations are considered B-series entities, to manage that volunteering is enough. It is clear that excesses must be corrected, but it is also true that I consider this attitude to be absolutely reductive. I trust I can have a written answer. Believe me, this problem in our Province is really important.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u55	D'ANNA (GAL). Minister, even in the tyranny of the times that afflicts us, I declare myself partially satisfied, in the sense that I take note of this movement of renewal and reorganization of the sector. However, the question I had raised is as follows: there is still a limit in the action of the State constituted by the fact that it wants to transfer, under its aegis and therefore under the empire of state bureaucracies, managerial criteria by identifying subjects, military or civil that it wants. The autonomy I asked for was given to Pompeii was born from linking its life and resources to a real autonomy, not only organizational, but also economic and financial. In a field where there are more than 350 people for whom there is no measure, neither work, nor productivity, nor competence, nor merit, changing name and changing organization without giving to those who have to organize the tools in order to be able to concretely introduce the private criteria is time lost.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u58	GIANNI (SPI). Madam President, Minister, we too are pleased with the part concerning the confirmation of the adoption of the guidelines, as announced in the statement issued by the Ministry last November. It does not seem to me that I have grasped - perhaps also because of the shortness of the answer, as my last question - the specific point, that is, when and how the new competitions will be banned. I believe it is implicit that this aspect will also be specified in the guidelines and, in any case, implementation procedures will follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u59	We now come to questions concerning measures to promote the entertainment sector, to which the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray, will reply. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u62	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, Mr Minister, after the positive investment in lyrical-symphonic foundations decided with the so-called cultural value decree, we know that you are working on the reform of the criteria for the allocation of the Single Fund for Performing Arts and that the Directorate-General for Performing Arts has just presented a draft (in December) to the various actors in the sector, from theatre to dance, from opera to jazz. We have perceived how you are inspired by a sincere desire for renewal and you are meeting some of the needs of the liveliest part of Italian artistic production. However, we know from these interlocutors that there are still some critical issues, such as the 85% reduction in dance promotion agencies and that, therefore, we still need to work together. That's why we at the 7th Senate Commission are willing to work with you. I would like to remind you that the FUS has suffered a drastic reduction since 1985 equal to 68.4% of the resources. We hope that in the new criteria for the allocation of resources, quality and access, above all to artistic productions, will be encouraged and rewarded for their circuitation and production capacities for research and relations with international networks. We also believe - and this is what I am asking you for - that it is necessary for those who are performing to have three-year funding to be able to plan and promote their activities properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u65	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, the recent and flattering results obtained by Italian cinema at international level, the areas of recognition, as well as the coveted nominations, lead us to believe that the development of the film industry can certainly represent a vehicle not only of ethical value for Italian culture, and therefore also for the values inherent in this from the national point of view and our tradition, but also as an industry and productive sector capable of generating jobs, employment and induced. Well, the cultural value decree, which my political side has actively and convincingly helped to approve in this House, as it has been done in the House, contains some important points within it, such as tax credit, which gives the film sector considerable facilities so that these resources can be a further flywheel and represent an appeal factor also for entrepreneurship because it invests in this sector. Well, I would like to know what favorable results for the development of culture and employment in general have been achieved and are expected to be achieved by 2014 with the approval of Decree-Law No 91 of 2013, the so-called decree value culture, and in particular with the tax credit and the re-determination of the criteria for the provision of contributions to the live show; and, Minister, what are the results hoped for by the application of Law No 147 of 2013 for the liquidation and transfer of the company by shares Cinecittà Luce to the company Fintecna S.p.A. or to a company entirely controlled by it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u68	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, Minister, it is widely known that our country is experiencing a profound economic and social crisis. To further confirm, and on the merits, we have finally learned the slide of Italy to 49th place of the ranking of world economic competitiveness. However, despite this insistent negative trend, Italy boasts its primates, shining undisputed for quantity of artistic and cultural heritage within its territory. And it is a pity to have to recognize that, in the face of this wealth, we are not able to operate in a proportionate way in the promotion, conservation and protection of cultural goods. In particular, within the entertainment sector, a great deal of bureaucratic bottlenecks and delays, to say the least discouraging, together with the scarcity of available resources ends up being a form of real disincentive, paradoxically fueled by that state which should instead do the exact opposite, promoting forms of incentives. Having said that, I ask you what policies the Ministry intends to implement, with a view to maximum transparency, to find new funds for the promotion of the entertainment sector; if tax credit and tax shelter policies have achieved appreciable results in relaunching the entertainment world and if they have highlighted some critical issues; finally, what interventions the Minister intends to adopt to provide for a bureaucratic simplification that is of incentive to the sector, also in order to facilitate the rise of the young generations in the field of arts and entertainment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u71	Comrade (NCD). Minister, I am also awaiting the answer to the more general questions put to you by Mrs Puglisi and the more detailed question on cinema. The difficulties of his role are known to us. You are Minister in a government that has as its national policy programme the reduction of public spending. And we know, at the same time, that we can review the criteria for assigning FUS resources to cinema, live entertainment and so on. However, there is a form of spectacle (I am thinking of lyrics, which we have dealt with for a long time in this House, as Senator Puglisi reminded us) for which - and an ancient liberal tells him - the State is uneliminable: the opera, without the State, in the history of Italy has never been even thinkable. Here, from this point of view, you have had some success, if not political, diplomatic (I think of Florence, I think of May Fiorentino). In other places, however, he has found walls of hostility: even - and he does not honor my city - a "Naples" will do for himself, demagogically addressed to the workers, in a scheme from Soviet of October 1917 (against February), which does not honor those intentions. I believe that, precisely in order not to distort the debate to which Mrs Puglisi referred and to enhance some non-preclusive availability, an act of direction and coordination by her Ministry, all the better if supported by the Commission or by Parliament, is more than appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u74	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, it is clear the need to carry out a reordering of the live entertainment sector, identifying and developing new talents and enhancing the already established artists, in the awareness that culture and art constitute a strategic moment of civil and social growth of the community, an important economic segment of the country and an employment flywheel. The operators of the sector clash every day with a cumbersome bureaucracy and unclear rules, and they usually operate in general disinterest. The state, but also the regions and local authorities, should put in place policies to encourage the production and use of live shows, outlining the criteria and objectives that the various actors should pursue in order to be able to count on public aid. We would like to know whether the Government, through the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, intends to provide tax incentives and other incentives in favour of live shows, for example through the creation of a fund for the professional training of young artists and to facilitate the transition from amateurism to professionalism, or measures in favour of entertainment linked to the promotion of the territories with a touristic vocation, encouraging the integration between tourist and cultural policies, which are complementary to each other, with particular attention to those activities of live shows that represent an added value of our offer of leisure and entertainment, in the need to make our sector of the tourism chain more competitive, through a widespread quality not only of the companies in the sector, but of the entire territorial system and of the cultural and recreational supply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u77	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the Opera is an identity, distinctive and of excellence of Italy: this is recognized by us from all over the world. The production of a opera is a real factory, which guarantees good employment: it is an integrated production model, with workers of great professionalism (think of scenery, costumes, artists, singers, musicians and dancers). For too many years, this world has been suffering a great deal and the continuous cuts in public resources have been accompanied by the unwavering gestures of the various superintendents, together with the little attention of the institutions. The decree value culture intervened to provide economic resources and to respond to a cultural and occupational emergency. That is why, Minister, we ask you what action you intend to take in order to follow the stages of implementation of this decree, starting with the case of Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, who first used its instruments to implement a restructuring plan. We would like to know the changes to the supplementary contracts and to the staff, if the industrial plans for the next three years have been sent to the Ministry, and how the latter intends to manage the redundancies of the staff, in order to understand if before transferring them to Ales spa the opportunity of transfers to other offices and structures of MIBACT has been considered. Finally, not least, we would also like to know the future of the dancing bodies, of which all too often we hear about as already ready towards possible externalizations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u80	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, I welcome the fact that this Government has recognised and valued the role of private individuals in the cultural promotion of our territories. On the occasion of recent regulatory measures, the Senate has approved two agendas that I would like to recall here. With the first, the Government was committed to assessing the possibility of providing an exemption from the payment of SIAE for events organized by voluntary associations for beneficial purposes and with a number of participants less than 200. This request, which I strongly supported, would facilitate the organisation of events that normally affect categories (such as those of the elderly or others) that do not have many possibilities for cultural use, events that are organized by subjects for whom the payment of SIAE represents such a high cost that many times they are discouraged or unable to proceed in the realization. The second agenda, on the other hand, concerns the possibility of tax deduction of the fees paid by students and their families for the participation in training courses organized by federations or recognized realities in the musical, choral, choral or artistic fields in general, which would give life to the sector and promote the cultural growth of our young people. Moreover, this agenda again called for the amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 149 of the Single Text, in order to prevent music bands, choirs, historical and folk groups, koreutic associations, dance schools and artistic and cultural associations in general from losing the status of non-commercial bodies by mistake. I therefore ask whether the Government intends to follow up on what has been requested with these two documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray. It won't be easy in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u81	Madam President, I focus initially on the reasons for the reform of the FUS structure. This comes from the awareness that, up to now, this articulation was characterized by a low openness to the access of new subjects, an absence of stimuli towards virtuous behavior, a low correspondence between the amounts financed and the activities carried out, a lack of transversality, a poor programmability, a central administration strong in the address, but weak in the monitoring and the evaluation. In order to do this, we thought of reviewing the current structure of the FUS with a view to simplification, bureaucratic simplification, greater homogeneity between sectors, thanks also to the adoption of a macro-subdivision between production subjects and programming subjects, in a multidisciplinary way, with the creation of a new field of activity dedicated to those programming subjects who intend to propose to their public a multidisciplinary offer. Accessibility will also be promoted through simplification of the information system and the construction of a three-year financing method allowing work planning. Above all, there will be attention to young people and contemporary life, devoting resources to training. Even the ban for the 500 young people - I apologize for not having responded earlier - is the response to the blockade, which we all know, compared to turnover, especially in the world of culture. And that is what we believe is the best opportunity for training and to create in their curricula a precedent that can help them to integrate in our Ministry. The implementing decrees with respect to the organisation of the FUS will be adopted shortly and will be the result of a constructive dialogue, already begun, with the interested parties, which have been audited several times in the sign of a political will to make a true reform, as much as possible shared, that takes into account the demands that come from precisely those who work on the field every day and the respect and the will to promote the integration of young people. To those who asked me about the provision of tax credit and the results I want to say that, with regard to the intervention that stabilized the tax credit, I believe that its function is extremely important, because those who work in cinema and want to invest in cinema know that this measure, already adopted in many European countries, succeeds in favoring those who need a planning with years in advance of its activity. With this stabilisation, I believe we have given certainty to a very important sector of our cultural industry, which will create more employment, more investment capacity and more certainty. As far as lyrics are concerned, I believe that the accession of eight foundations is a positive result of what has been thought of by the law. The Extraordinary Commissioner serves precisely to coordinate policies and, above all, the responses of industrial plans to what are the true choices of foundations (which, I would like to remind you, are private foundations). We will increasingly link these activities to tourism, because we believe it is a great resource that can develop. In the presentation of the decree I said that I was concerned about the debt situation, and I must confirm that this situation is perhaps more serious than I said in this House. With regard to the "Maggio musicale" (Maggio musicale), we shared the choices with all the representatives, because it seems fair to us to arrive at an action of coordination (because such is that of the Ministry) that can really favor the participation of all in a plan of reorganization of such an important foundation. Finally, I want to clarify, because I was asked, the transfer of the company Cinecittà-Luce to Fintecna. This only completes a path that had already begun, not with my responsibilities, and that concludes a process of optimization, started with the constitution of the new company Istituto Luce- Cinecittà s.r.l., through a more streamlined society, with lower management costs and with the possibility to devote more public resources precisely to the support of Italian cinema, without penalising employment. We will then be committed to implementing the agenda that has rightly been referred to. We think we will completely review the report on copyright and on the many issues that recall the role and commitment of SIAE. We shall do this together with Parliament, given the importance of such an issue as has been raised. Finally, I want to say that, precisely with reference to the lyrical-symphonic foundations, to which our attention has turned a lot, we are dealing, in respect of the territories and the individual foundations, in order to protect not only their nature, but also, and above all, the value that this cultural sector has for the whole of Italian history: a story made and created - precisely - thanks to the professionalism of those who work in this sector and those who in these difficult years, despite the many errors that I have recalled also in the debate that took place here in the Senate on the so-called decree culture, has managed to keep alive what I consider one of the most important sectors of our cultural production. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u84	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Dialogue with the players in the sector; attention to young people and contemporary life, and above all - we hope - a rebalancing in the distribution of the Fund between the different sectors: I can only say that I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u87	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I am basically satisfied with the Minister's answers. This does not mean that some recommendations can be made regarding the accentuation and encouragement of the effort that the State can make in the field of the film industry, in particular with a redefinition of the role of Cinecittà, integrating functions and enabling the entire sector - made of great professionalism, internal and external - to work so that our country presents itself with a good business card, especially abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u90	Montevecchi (M5S). I am satisfied with the reply received. The only thing I observe is that I have not been given an answer about the results of tax credit and tax shelter policies. However, I would like to give the Minister an attenuating opinion, since the so-called cultural decree was converted on 8 October and perhaps it is too early to provide this data. However, I urge you to monitor the effectiveness of these instruments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u93	Comrade (NCD). Under the parliamentary code, on this second subject I must tell the Minister that I feel far less dissatisfied than on the previous subject. Of course, I realize that it is very difficult to achieve a sector balance when criteria are identified that apply to the whole FUS and inevitably involve a reduction, not an increase, of resources in the near future. Minister, without any envy for the responsibilities that await you, I hope to be full of understanding, but without extenuating, as befits Parliament's ethic towards the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u96	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm not very satisfied, because I practically didn't get an answer to my two questions. Therefore, given that I am sure that the Minister and his Ministry have a design on the two topics I have just dealt with, I will present a written question on this subject, to be dealt with perhaps at a somewhat quieter time. I realize that in ten minutes the Minister could not respond to everything and to everyone in a comprehensive way. I will therefore turn my request into a written question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you on behalf of the Minister for understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u99	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am partially satisfied. I understand that the subject is extremely broad and cannot be reduced to our ten minutes, but I would ask you, Minister, to follow closely and closely this phase and what happens in our lyric foundations. There are, in fact, great professionalism, but also many workers. I believe that the prospects can at least be guaranteed to everyone. I reserve the right to submit a question with respect to the previous application. I conclude by recalling Abbado, who said that it is not true that in Germany and Austria more culture is being developed because they are rich; the opposite is true: they are richer because more culture is being made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u102	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I am pleased to note that the Minister shares the need to radically and overall review the management of copyright, which today, in truth, is going to feed more management of the whole system than to reimburse those who are entitled to it. I would ask the Minister to take account of the other proposal on deductions for training courses, which I believe would mainly encourage the training of young people and therefore also their cultural growth. For the rest, I reiterate our Group's willingness to cooperate also in the initiatives with which it wanted to review this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u103	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I would like to thank the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Bray, for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-180.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 4 February, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.08 p.m.
